Methods and systems for robot cloud computing are described. Within examples, cloud-based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided, to some extent, between client and server devices. A robot may be any device that has a computing ability and interacts with its surroundings with an actuation capability (e.g., electromechanical capabilities). A client device may be configured as a robot including various sensors and devices in the forms of modules, and different modules may be added or removed from robot depending on requirements. A robot may interact with the cloud to perform any number of actions, such as to share information with other cloud computing devices. A robot's performance of a task can be augmented by a cloud service which contains a data library of elements which are delivered to the robot to help the robot execute actions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method performed by a system comprising a processor, the method comprising: receiving a request from a robotic device for access to a data library to receive a data element stored in the data library, the request including information associated with a task of the robotic device and the data library storing data elements that include information configured for use by a given robotic device and that are associated with instructions executable by the given robotic device to perform a heuristic for interaction with an environment the data elements being further associated with respective metadata that is indicative of a requirement of the given robotic device for using a given data element to perform at least a portion of an associated heuristic for interaction with the environment, and the metadata indicating the requirement for the robotic device to include or have access to one or more of a sensor or a mechanical actuator required to perform a given task via execution of the given data element; determining instructions of data elements that are executable to perform at least a portion of the task of the robotic device; determining data elements from among the data elements stored in the data library that include the instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the portion of the task of the robotic device; determining which of the determined data elements are associated with metadata indicating one or more requirements for the robotic device that match capabilities of the robotic device so as to determine one or more matching data elements; and causing one of the matching data elements to be conveyed to the robotic device. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining one or more matching data elements based on an environment in which the robotic device resides. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one of the matching data elements includes information associated with a map configured for use by the robotic device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one of the matching data elements includes information associated with a remote operation of the task, wherein the remote operation of the task includes the robotic device being remotely operated by a user to perform the task. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic device includes an application configured to receive application-specific instructions, and wherein the one of the matching data elements includes a set of application-specific instructions for use in the application, wherein causing the one of the matching data elements to be conveyed to the robotic device comprises downloading an update of the set of application-specific instructions for use in the application to the robotic device. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein causing the one of the matching data elements to be conveyed to the robotic device comprises: determining a time when the robotic device is in a standby mode, wherein the standby mode is indicative of the robotic device not in operation; and causing the one of the matching data elements to be conveyed to the robotic device during the time when the robotic device is in the standby mode. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein causing the one of the matching data elements to be conveyed to the robotic device comprises: receiving payment for the one of the matching data elements; and sending the one of the matching data elements to the robotic device. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving from the robotic device feedback indicating information associated with a rating of the one of the matching data elements, wherein the rating is indicative of an amount of success by the robotic device to perform at least a portion of the task via execution of the one of the matching data elements. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the data library stores data elements that are derived from information received from robotic devices and determined by the robotic devices during performance of given tasks, and wherein the data elements are further associated with a respective rating, wherein the respective rating is indicative of an amount of success by a respective robotic device to perform at least a portion of a respective task via execution of a respective data element, and the method further comprises: determining the one of the matching data elements from among the data elements stored in the data library based also on the respective rating of the one of the matching data elements. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving from the robotic device at least a portion of information associated with a second heuristic for interaction with the environment, wherein the portion of information associated with the second heuristic for interaction with the environment comprises information associated with a state of the robotic device and a function performed by the robotic device to carry out at least a portion of a given task, the portion of information determined by the robotic device during performance of the given task; and modifying the data library based on the portion of information associated with the second heuristic for interaction with the environment. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising sharing with a second robotic device in substantially real-time the portion of the information associated with the second heuristic for interaction with the environment such that applicability of the information associated with the second heuristic for interaction with the environment expires after a certain amount of time. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving from a plurality of robotic devices information associated with heuristics for interaction with environments, the heuristics based on experiences of the plurality of robotic devices; determining a function based on the information associated with heuristics for interaction with environments received from the plurality of robotic devices; and making the function available for access as a respective data element in the data library. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a second data element that is relevant to an activity of the robotic device; and in response, causing the second data element to be offered for purchase to the robotic device. 14. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored therein instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions comprising: receiving a request from a robotic device for access to a data library to receive a data element stored in the data library, the request including information associated with a task of the robotic device and the data library storing data elements that include information configured for use by a given robotic device and that are associated with instructions executable by the given robotic device to perform a heuristic for interaction with an environment, the data elements being further associated with respective metadata that is indicative of a requirement of the given robotic device for using a given data element to perform at least a portion of an associated heuristic for interaction with the environment, and the metadata indicating the requirement for the robotic device to include or have access to one or more of a sensor or a mechanical actuator required to perform a given task via execution of the given data element; determining instructions of data elements that are executable to perform at least a portion of the task of the robotic device; determining data elements from among the data elements stored in the data library that include the instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the portion of the task of the robotic device; determining which of the determined data elements are associated with metadata indicating one or more requirements for the robotic device that match capabilities of the robotic device so as to determine one or more matching data elements; and causing one of the matching data elements to be conveyed to the robotic device. 15. A system comprising: an interface configured to provide communication between a robotic device and a data library, the data library storing data elements including information configured for use by a given robotic device and that are associated with instructions executable by the given robotic device to perform a heuristic for interaction with an environment, the data elements stored in the data library being further associated with respective metadata that is indicative of a requirement of the given robotic device for using a given data element to perform at least a portion of an associated heuristic for interaction with the environment, and the metadata indicating the requirement for the robotic device to include or have access to one or more of a sensor or a mechanical actuator required to perform a given task via execution of the given data element; a control unit configured to: determine instructions of data elements that are executable to perform at least a portion of the task of the robotic device; determine data elements from among the data elements stored in the data library that include the instructions executable by the robotic device to perform the portion of a task of the robotic device, determine which of the determined data elements are associated with metadata indicating one or more requirements for the robotic device that match capabilities of the robotic device so as to determine one or more matching data elements, and to cause one of the matching data elements to be conveyed to the robotic device via the interface; and an update unit configured to provide to the robotic device via the interface an update of the instructions associated with a corresponding data element stored on the robotic device. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the control unit is configured to determine one of the matching data elements further based on one or more of user preferences for the robotic device, an environment in which the robotic device resides, capabilities of the robotic device, and a software developer of the data element. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the control unit is configured to receive from the robotic device feedback indicating information associated with a rating of one of the matching data elements, wherein the rating is indicative of an amount of success by the robotic device to perform at least a portion of the task via execution of the one of the matching data elements. 18. A method comprising: a robotic device performing an activity; the robotic device determining a heuristic for interaction with an environment during performance of the activity; and in response, the robotic device sharing with a second robotic device in substantially real-time at least a portion of information associated with the heuristic for interaction with the environment, wherein the portion of information associated with the heuristic for interaction with the environment comprises information associated with a state of the robotic device and a function performed by the robotic device to carry out at least a portion of the activity. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: the robotic device storing existing heuristics for interaction with a given environment; the robotic device determining a refinement to one of the existing heuristics for interaction with a given environment during performance of the activity; and the robotic device sharing with the second robotic device in substantially real-time information associated with the refinement to the existing heuristic for interaction with the given environment. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: the robotic device making a determination of requiring additional information to perform the activity; and based on the determination, the robotic device responsively accessing a data library to search for a given data element associated with the additional information. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein applicability of the information expires after a certain amount of time. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the robotic device determining the heuristic for interaction with the environment during performance of the activity comprises the robotic device determining at least a partially unknown model of functions to execute so as to perform at least a portion of the activity to achieve a desired output behavior. 