A microfluidic processing device includes a substrate defining a microfluidic network. The substrate is in thermal communication with a plurality of N independently controllable components and a plurality of input output contacts for connecting the substrate to an external controller. Each component has at least two terminals. Each terminal is in electrical communication with at least one contact. The number of contacts required to independently control the N components is substantially less than the total number of terminals. Upon actuation, the components typically heat a portion of the microfluidic network and/or sense a temperature thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microfluidic system, comprising: a first substrate defining a microfluidic network comprising a plurality of thermally actuated components, wherein the thermally actuated components comprise at least one of each of a thermally actuated valve, a thermally actuated pump, and a thermally actuated reaction chamber; a second substrate defining a plurality of heat sources, each heat source being in thermal communication with a respective one of the valve, pump, and reaction chamber; and, where the area of each of the heat sources is larger than the area of the thermally actuated component; whereby the thermally actuated components are spaced apart to enable independent temperature control of each of the thermally actuated components. 2. The microfluidic system of claim 1, wherein the second substrate has a substantially lower thermal conductivity than the heat sources. 3. The microfluidic system of claim 1, further comprising control circuitry configured to control the heat sources. 4. The microfluidic system of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic system is controlled by signals received from a data acquisition and control board. 5. The microfluidic system of claim 4, wherein the signals received from a data acquisition and control board that control the microfluidic system comprise electrical signals. 6. The microfluidic system of claim 4, wherein the signals received from a data acquisition and control board that control the microfluidic system comprise optical signals. 7. The microfluidic system of claim 1, further comprising a temperature sensor. 8. The microfluidic system of claim 7, wherein the temperature sensor comprises a resistive temperature sensor. 9. The microfluidic system of claim 7, wherein the temperature sensor comprises a combined heating/temperature sensing component (CHTSC). 10. The microfluidic system of claim 1, wherein a plurality of heat sources are connected to an electrical conductor. 11. The microfluidic system of claim 10, wherein the heat sources are connected to the electrical conductor in series. 12. The microfluidic system of claim 10, wherein the heat sources are connected to the electrical conductor in parallel. 13. The microfluidic system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the thermally actuated components is thermopneumatically actuated. 14. The microfluidic system of claim 13, wherein the at least one thermopneumatically actuated component comprises the thermally actuated valve. 15. The microfluidic system of claim 13, wherein the at least one thermopneumatically actuated component comprises the thermally actuated pump. 16. The microfluidic system of claim 1, wherein the reaction chamber is configured to perform a polymerase chain reaction. 