A method for energy management in a robotic device includes providing a base station for mating with the robotic device, determining a quantity of energy stored in an energy storage unit of the robotic device, and performing a predetermined task based at least in part on the quantity of energy stored. Also disclosed are systems for emitting avoidance signals to prevent inadvertent contact between the robot and the base station, and systems for emitting homing signals to allow the robotic device to accurately dock with the base station. Also disclosed are systems and methods for confirming a presence of a robotic device docked with a charger by recognizing a load formed by a circuit in the charger combined with a complementary circuit in the robotic device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous robotic device responsive to signals from a base station, the robotic device comprising: electric contacts for contacting a charging terminal of a base station; and a microprocessor that, based on a measured robotic device energy level, instructs the robotic device to: avoid a short-range omni-directional base station signal to avoid contact with the base station when the measured energy level is above a predetermined energy level; seek the short-range omni-directional base station signal and a directional base station signal extending beyond the range of the omni-directional signal when the measured energy level is below the predetermined energy level, including following the omni-directional signal to encounter the directional signal; and follow the directional signal in order to dock with the base station for charging. 2. The autonomous robotic device of claim 1, configured to be responsive to at least one optical signal. 3. The autonomous robotic device of claim 1, configured to determine the quantity of energy in an energy storage unit using at least one of coulometery and monitoring of a time period of use. 4. The robotic device of claim 1, configured to reduce energy use by removing power from one or more powered systems of the robotic device while seeking the omni-directional signal or following the directional signal. 5. The robotic device of claim 1, configured to follow a wall while seeking the omni-directional signal. 6. The robotic device of claim 1, configured to be responsive to the directional signal as one of a right signal and a left signal and further responsive to a second directional base-station signal as the other of the right signal and the left signal. 7. The robotic device of claim 6, configured to maintain an orientation relative to both the right signal and the left signal as the robotic device approaches the base station. 8. The robotic device of claim 7, configured to maintain the orientation by: moving to keep the right signal to the right of the robotic device, and moving to keep the left signal to the left of the robotic device to dock with the base station. 9. The robotic device of claim 7, configured to recognize the left signal different than the right signal by recognizing at least one of a color of a signal, a carrier frequency of a signal, a modulation of a signal, a bit pattern of a signal and a wavelength of a signal. 10. The robotic device of claim 6, configured to follow an overlap of the right and left signals to dock with the base station. 11. The autonomous robotic device of claim 1, responsive to the directional signal from the base station in positions where the robotic device does not detect the omni-directional signal. 12. The autonomous robotic device of claim 1, further comprising an omni-directional detector for detecting the omni-directional signal and the directional signal. 13. The autonomous robotic device of claim 1, further configured to follow a periphery of at least one of the omni-directional and directional signals. 14. An autonomous robotic device responsive to signals from a base station, the robotic device comprising: electric contacts for contacting a charging terminal of a base station; and microprocessor that, based on a measured robotic device energy level, instructs the robotic device to: avoid a short-range omni-directional base station signal to avoid contact with the base station while cleaning when the measured energy level is above a first predetermined energy level, seek the omni-directional signal and a directional base station signal extending beyond the range of the omni-directional signal while cleaning when the measured energy level is below the first predetermined energy level; seek the omni-directional signal and the directional signal without cleaning when the measured energy level is below a second predetermined energy level; and follow the directional signal in order to dock with the base station for charging. 15. The robotic device of claim 14, configured to follow the short-range omni-directional signal to encounter the directional signal. 16. The robotic device of claim 14, configured to follow a wall while seeking without cleaning. 17. The robotic device of claim 14, configured to be responsive to the directional signal as one of a right signal and a left signal and further responsive to a second directional base-station signal as the other of the right signal and the left signal. 18. The robotic device of claim 17, configured to maintain an orientation relative to both the right signal and the left signal as the robotic device approaches the base station. 19. The robotic device of claim 18, configured to maintain the orientation by: moving to keep the right signal to the right of the robotic device, and moving to keep the left signal to the left of the robotic device to dock with the base station. 20. The robotic device of claim 14, further comprising circuitry for forming a predetermined load in combination with a complementary circuit in the base station. 