A sample processing system 101 that may be automated and methods are disclosed where sample(s) 198 are arranged on a carrier element 197 and a process operation control system 171 automatically processes the sample(s) perhaps robotically according to an desired aggregation of event dictated by an input 173. Alteration of an initial aggregated event topology may be accepted while the system is processing an initial aggregation and varied-parameter robotic control simulation functionalities 606 may be accomplished to determine an enhanced sequence for processing. Suggested operator actions may be displayed that might further enhance the scheduling of the altered aggregated event topology together with an automatic operator need prompt 608 that may inform an operator of a need for a particular action in order to accomplish the desired tasks. Reversibility to proposed changes may be made available so that an operator may avoid having to activate proposed changes if they cause a processing result that is not acceptable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automated sample processing comprising: establishing a network connection between a computer server and a control unit of an automated sample processing system that performs automated process operation events comprising robotic sample process functions; identifying a first slide on the automated sample processing system; obtaining from the computer the automated process operation events to be performed on the first slide; heating the first slide as determined by the automated process operation events; performing the robotic sample processing functions on the first slide; receiving a second slide into the system during processing of the first slide; and scheduling robotic sample processing functions for the second slide without interrupting processing of the first slide. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated process operation events include a target retrieval protocol. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the heating of the first slide is defined by a target retrieval protocol. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of discontinuing processing of the first slide according to a robot task list and commencing processing of the first slide according to an altered robot task list. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein scheduling robotic sample processing functions for the second slide includes running one or more simulations using varied schedules in order to determine an altered robot task list. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein scheduling robotic sample processing functions for the second slide comprises: determining a robot task priority for each robot task in a robot task list; and sorting the robot task list in order of robot task priority. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first slide includes a sample. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one slide is arranged in a substantially horizontal position. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein during the pretreatment of the at least one slide, the slide is arranged in a substantially vertical position. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein during the pretreatment of the at least one slide, the slide is arranged in a substantially horizontal position. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the slide is rotated to a nonvertical position for further processing. 