In one embodiment of the invention, a replaceable electrosurgical end effector cartridge is provided to couple to a mechanical wrist of a surgical instrument for a robotic surgical system. The replaceable electrosurgical end effector cartridge includes two pluggable end effectors and a pair of spring latches. The two end effectors are moveable end effectors having a jaw portion, an off-center portion, and a base portion in one embodiment. The replaceable electrosurgical end effector cartridge may further include a fastener to rotatably couple the end effectors together.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrosurgical end effector cartridge to detachably couple to a robotic surgical instrument of a robotic surgical system, the electrosurgical end effector cartridge comprising: a first moveable end effector having a jaw portion and a base portion; a first latch coupled to the first moveable end effector near the base portion, the first latch is flexible to detachably couple the first moveable end effector to a first receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument; a second moveable end effector having a jaw portion and a base portion; and a second latch coupled to the second moveable end effector near the base portion, the second latch is flexible to detachably couple the second moveable end effector to a second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument. 2. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, further comprising: a fastener to rotatably couple the first and second moveable end effectors together near the base portion of each. 3. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 2, wherein the first moveable end effector includes a slotted opening near the base portion, the second moveable end effector includes a threaded hole near the base portion having female threads, and the fastener is a threaded screw having male threads at one end extending through the slotted opening and threaded into the female threads of the threaded hole. 4. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 2, wherein the first moveable end effector includes a slotted opening near the base portion, the second moveable end effector includes a cylindrical opening near the base portion, and the fastener is a bolt extending through the slotted opening and the cylindrical opening with a nut coupled to a threaded end thereof. 5. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 2, wherein the first and second moveable end effectors, the first latch, and the fastener are formed out of a conductive material to couple an electrical current into tissue. 6. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 2, wherein the first receptacle and the second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument are pivotally coupled together with a pin to respectively control the first moveable end effector and the second moveable end effector. 7. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 6, wherein the first receptacle or the second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument is actuated by a motor to respectively move the first moveable end effector or the second moveable end effector. 8. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, wherein the jaws of the first and second end effectors are blades, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable scissors cartridge. 9. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, wherein the jaws of the first and second moveable end effectors are grips, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable gripping cartridge. 10. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, wherein the first and second moveable end effectors and the first latch are formed out of a conductive material to couple an electrical current into tissue. 11. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 10, wherein the first moveable end effector and the first latch are electrically isolated from the second moveable end effector, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a bipolar electrosurgical end effector cartridge to couple to a bipolar electro-surgical tool. 12. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, wherein the first latch has a first retention slot adapted to detachably couple to a first catch of the first receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument; and the second latch has a second retention slot adapted to detachably couple to a second catch of the second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument. 13. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, wherein each of the first latch and the second latch further includes an extension portion adapted to extend from the first receptacle and the second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument, the extension portion adapted to flex each of the first latch and the second latch to decouple the respective retention slots from the respective catches of the first receptacle and the second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument. 14. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, wherein the base portion of the first moveable end effector includes a drive opening and a pivot opening, the first latch includes a pivot opening and a drive tab engaged with the drive opening of the first moveable end effector to couple thereto, the base portion of the second moveable end effector includes a drive opening and a pivot opening, the second latch includes a pivot opening and a drive tab engaged with the drive opening of the second moveable end effector to couple thereto; and a pivot pin inserted through the pivot openings of the first and second moveable end effectors and the first and second latches to rotatably couple the first and second moveable end effectors together. 15. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 14, wherein the first and second moveable end effectors, the first and second latches, and the pivot pin are formed out of a conductive material to couple an electrical current into tissue. 16. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 14, wherein the first and second moveable end effectors, and the first and second latches are formed out of a conductive material to couple an electrical current into tissue, the first moveable end effector and the first latch are electrically isolated from the second moveable end effector and the second flexible latch, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a bipolar electrosurgical end effector cartridge to couple to a bipolar electro-surgical tool. 17. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 14, wherein the jaws of the first and second end effectors are blades, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable scissors cartridge. 18. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 14, wherein the jaws of the first and second moveable end effectors are grips, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable gripping cartridge. 19. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 1, wherein wherein the jaw portion of the first moveable end effector and the jaw portion of the second moveable end effector are adapted to couple to tissue in a surgical site. 20. An electrosurgical end effector cartridge to couple to a robotic surgical instrument of a robotic surgical system, the electrosurgical end effector cartridge comprising: a first moveable end effector having a jaw portion and a base portion, the first moveable end effector includes a cylindrical opening and a first drive slot near the base portion; a first spring latch coupled to the first moveable end effector near the base portion, the first spring latch to couple to a first receptacle of a robotic surgical instrument, the first spring latch includes a cylindrical opening near the base portion and a first drive tab coupled into the first drive slot of the first moveable end effector; a second moveable end effector having a jaw portion and a base portion, the second moveable end effector includes a cylindrical opening and a second drive slot near the base portion; a second spring latch coupled to the second moveable end effector near the base portion, the second spring latch to couple to a second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument, the second spring latch includes a cylindrical opening near the base portion and a second drive tab coupled into the second drive slot; and a fastener to rotatably couple the first and second moveable end effectors together near the base portion of each, wherein the fastener is a bolt extending through the cylindrical openings of the first and second moveable end effectors and the first and second spring latches with a nut coupled to a threaded end thereof; wherein the jaw portion of the first moveable end effector and the jaw portion of the second moveable end effector are adapted to couple to tissue in a surgical site. 21. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 20, wherein the first and second moveable end effectors and the first spring latch are formed out of a conductive material to couple an electrical current into tissue. 22. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 21, wherein the first moveable end effector and the first spring latch are electrically isolated from the second moveable end effector, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a bipolar electrosurgical end effector cartridge to couple to a bipolar electro-surgical tool. 23. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 20, wherein the jaws of the first and second end effectors are blades, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable scissors cartridge. 24. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 20, wherein the jaws of the first and second moveable end effectors are grips, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable gripping cartridge. 25. An electrosurgical end effector cartridge to couple to a robotic surgical instrument of a robotic surgical system, the electrosurgical end effector cartridge comprising: a first moveable end effector having a jaw portion and a base portion, the first moveable end effector includes a cylindrical opening and a first drive slot near the base portion; a first spring latch coupled to the first moveable end effector near the base portion, the first spring latch to couple to a first receptacle of a robotic surgical instrument, the first spring latch includes a cylindrical opening near the base portion and a first drive tab coupled into the first drive slot of the first moveable end effector; a second moveable end effector having a jaw portion and a base portion, the second moveable end effector includes a cylindrical opening and a second drive slot near the base portion; a second spring latch coupled to the second moveable end effector near the base portion, the second spring latch to couple to a second receptacle of the robotic surgical instrument the second spring latch includes a cylindrical opening near the base portion and a second drive tab coupled into the second drive slot; and a fastener to rotatably couple the first and second moveable end effectors together near the base portion of each, wherein the fastener is a rivet extending through the cylindrical openings of the first and second moveable end effectors and the first and second spring latches with a head at one end of a shank and an upset tail at an opposite end of the shank; wherein the jaw portion of the first moveable end effector and the jaw portion of the second moveable end effector are adapted to couple to tissue in a surgical site. 26. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 25, wherein the first and second moveable end effectors and the first spring latch are formed out of a conductive material to couple an electrical current into tissue. 27. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 26, wherein the first moveable end effector and the first spring latch are electrically isolated from the second moveable end effector, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a bipolar electrosurgical end effector cartridge to couple to a bipolar electro-surgical tool. 28. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 25, wherein the jaws of the first and second end effectors are blades, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable scissors cartridge. 29. The electrosurgical end effector cartridge of claim 25, wherein the jaws of the first and second moveable end effectors are grips, and the electrosurgical end effector cartridge is a replaceable gripping cartridge. 