An automated optical switch for use in a central office to increase coupling density including a frame having a mating plate defining a plurality of precision alignment holes formed therethrough. In one embodiment, the precision alignment holes are sized and configured to receive corresponding pairs of optical fibers with polished end faces disposed within ferrules free of connector housings. In another embodiment, the precision alignment holes are sized and configured to receive optical fibers with polished end faces free of ferrules and connector housings.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. An automated optical switch comprising: a mating plate made of thermally stable material having a plurality of circular precision alignment holes formed therethrough sized and configured for receiving and aligning mating optical fibers free of connector housings; a connecting element moveable relative to the mating plate for switching an optical fiber between the plurality of precision alignment holes in the line of movement of the connecting element; a guiding element moveable with the connecting element for guiding the optical fiber secured within the connecting element; and search pins of the connecting and guiding elements configured to locate in neighboring ones of the precision alignment holes in use for connecting optical fibers; wherein the optical fiber of the connecting element passes through the connecting element, makes a clockwise loop through a pathway in the guiding element, reenters the connecting element through a curved slit, and terminates for being received within only one of the plurality of precision alignment holes at a time. 2. The automated optical switch according to claim 1, wherein the mating optical fibers are positioned within a ferrule, ferrules being positioned opposite one another and optically connected directly through the precision alignment holes of the mating plate. 3. The automated optical switch according to claim 2, wherein the coupling density of the optical switch is increased by a factor of at least two compared to the coupling density of an optical switch having a metal optical frame with square openings for receiving connector housings to optically connect optical fibers disposed within connector housings. 4. The automated optical switch according to claim 2, wherein the optically connecting optical fibers disposed within the ferrules have matching alignment error directions. 5. The automated optical switch according to claim 1, wherein the coupling density of the optical switch is increased by a factor of at least six compared to the coupling density of an optical switch having a metal optical frame with square openings for receiving connector housings to optically connect ferrules disposed within connector housings. 6. The automated optical switch according to claim 1, wherein the optical fibers are selected from optical fibers having low core eccentricities. 7. The automated optical switch according to claim 1, wherein the mating plate includes at least one of metallic and ceramic material. 8. The automated optical switch according to claim 1, wherein the mating plate includes magnetic material to provide for magnetic latching. 9. The automated optical switch according to claim 1, further comprising latching springs configured to locate in neighboring ones of the precision alignment holes. 