In a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for processing an image. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the steps of providing an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory, identifying a dominant region of single reflectance in the image and segregating the image into intrinsic images as a function of the dominant region of single reflectance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory; identifying a dominant region of single reflectance in the image wherein the step of identifying a dominant region of single reflectance in the image is carried out by performing a pixel stability analysis, and segregating the image into intrinsic images as a function of the dominant region of single reflectance. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the pixel stability analysis is carried out by implementing a technique selected from a group including a second derivative energy analysis, a directional second derivative energy analysis, an analysis based upon application of an edge preserving blurring filter, and a local variance analysis. 3. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: providing an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory; identifying a dominant region of single reflectance in the image, and segregating the image into intrinsic images as a function of the dominant region of single reflectance wherein the step of segregating the image into intrinsic images as a function of the dominant region of single reflectance is carried out by performing a constraint/solver model, and wherein the constraint/solver model is based upon a tokenization of the image file. 4. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory, identify a dominant region of single reflectance in the image and segregate the image into intrinsic images as a function of the dominant region of single reflectance wherein the process step to segregate the image into intrinsic images as a function of the dominant region of single reflectance is carried out by performing a constraint/solver model and wherein the constraint/solver model is based upon a tokenization of the image file. 5. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory, identify a dominant region of single reflectance in the image wherein the process step to identify a dominant region of single reflectance in the image is carried out by performing a pixel stability analysis and segregate the image into intrinsic images as a function of the dominant region of single reflectance. 6. The computer program product of claim 5 wherein the pixel stability analysis is carried out by implementing a technique selected from a group including a second derivative energy analysis, a directional second derivative energy analysis, an analysis based upon application of an edge preserving blurring filter, and a local variance analysis. 