In certain embodiments, a system includes a front wall, a rear wall positioned substantially parallel to the front wall, and first and second side walls each extending between the front wall and the rear wall. The first side wall includes a gate, and the second side wall is spaced apart from the first side wall such that the front wall, the rear wall, the first side wall, and the second side wall define a milking box stall of a size sufficient to accommodate a dairy livestock. The system includes an equipment portion located adjacent to the rear wall. The equipment portion houses a robotic attacher configured to extend between the rear legs of a dairy livestock located within the milking box stall in order to attach milking equipment to the dairy livestock.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: a first milking box having a first stall to accommodate a first dairy livestock; a second milking box positioned side-by-side with the first milking box, and having a second stall to accommodate a second dairy livestock; and a robotic attacher for use with both the first milking box stall and the second milking box stall and operable to: extend between the rear legs of the first dairy livestock located within the first milking box stall in a first mode of operation; and extend between the rear legs of the second dairy livestock located within the second milking box stall in a second mode of operation; wherein the robotic attacher is suspended into position from a rail and operable to move in at least one direction along the x-axis, y-axis, and z-axis; wherein the robotic attacher comprises a gripping portion having a nozzle positioned on a surface, the gripping portion operable to rotate such that during a spraying operation the nozzle is in a first position substantially facing a teat of one of the first and second dairy livestock, and during a milking operation the nozzle is in a second position different from the first position. 2. A system, comprising: a first milking box having a first stall to accommodate a first dairy livestock; a second milking box positioned side-by-side with the first milking box, and having a second stall to accommodate a second dairy livestock; a robotic attacher for use with both the first milking box stall and the second milking box stall and operable to: extend between the rear legs of the first dairy livestock located within the first milking box stall in a first mode of operation; and extend between the rear legs of the second dairy livestock located within the second milking box stall in a second mode of operation; wherein the robotic attacher comprises: a main arm; a supplemental arm coupled to the main arm; a gripping portion coupled to the supplemental arm; a vision system positioned on a first surface of the robotic attacher; and at least one nozzle positioned on a second surface opposite the first surface; wherein the gripping portion is operable to rotate such that during a milking operation, the nozzle is positioned generally on the bottom of the robotic attacher, and during a spraying operation, the nozzle is positioned generally on the top of the robotic attacher. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic attacher is operable to attach milking equipment to the first dairy livestock in the first mode of operation. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the milking equipment comprises at least one milking cup. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic attacher is operable to spray a disinfectant substance to at least one teat of the first dairy livestock in the first mode of operation. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein the second milking box is positioned adjacent to the first milking box such that a rear wall of the second milking box is substantially aligned with a rear wall of the first milking box. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein the first milking box comprises a side wall between a front wall and a rear wall, the side wall comprising an entrance gate and an exit gate, and the system further comprises a controller operable to control the opening and closing of the entrance gate and the exit gate. 8. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic attacher is suspended into position by a rail. 9. The system of claim 2, wherein the gripping portion comprises a wrist operable to perform a tilt movement. 10. The system of claim 2, wherein the gripping portion comprises a wrist operable to perform a pivot movement. 11. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic attacher is operable to move in at least one direction along the x-axis, y-axis, and z-axis. 12. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic attacher is operable to: retrieve a preparation cup; attach the preparation cup to a teat of the first dairy livestock; and remove the preparation cup from the teat of the first dairy livestock. 13. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic attacher is operable to: retrieve a teat cup; and attach the teat cup to a teat of the first dairy livestock. 14. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic attacher is operable to attach multiple milking cups to the first dairy livestock at a time. 15. The system of claim 2, wherein the first milking box comprises a feed bowl coupled to a front wall and operable to move toward a rear wall. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a sensor operable to identify the first dairy livestock within the first milking box, wherein the feed bowl is movable toward the rear wall by a distance that is based at least in part upon the identity of the first dairy livestock. 17. A method of operating a robotic attacher, comprising: suspending a robotic attacher from a rail; positioning the robotic attacher for operation with a first milking box during a first mode of operation; extending the robotic attacher between the hind legs of a dairy livestock located in a stall of the first milking box during the first mode of operation; attaching milking equipment to the dairy livestock using a gripping portion of the robotic attacher during a milking operation, wherein the gripping portion has a nozzle that is positioned away from a teat of the dairy livestock during the milking operation; rotating the gripping portion of the robotic attacher so that the nozzle is positioned to face a teat of the dairy livestock during a spraying operation; and positioning the robotic attacher for operation with a second milking box during a second mode of operation. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: extending the robotic attacher between the hind legs of a second dairy livestock located in a stall of the second milking box during the second mode of operation; attaching milking equipment to the second dairy livestock using the robotic attacher. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining an identity of the dairy livestock located in the stall of the first milking box; and determining whether to milk the dairy livestock based at least in part upon the identity of the dairy livestock; wherein attaching the milking equipment comprises attaching the milking equipment to the dairy livestock if it is determined that the dairy livestock is to be milked. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising moving the robotic attacher in at least one direction along the x-axis, y-axis, and z-axis in order to attach the milking equipment to the dairy livestock. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining an identity of the dairy livestock located in the stall of the first milking box; and determining whether to milk the dairy livestock based at least in part upon the identity of the dairy livestock; and dropping feed into a feed bowl located within the stall of the first milking box if it is determined that the dairy livestock is to be milked. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising positioning the feed bowl based at least in part upon the identity of the dairy livestock. 23. The method of claim 17, further comprising; opening at least one gate of the stall in order to allow the dairy livestock to enter the stall prior to extending the robotic attacher between the hind legs of the dairy livestock; detecting the presence of the dairy livestock in the stall; closing the at least one gate in response to detecting the presence of the dairy livestock in the stall. 24. The method of claim 17, further comprising: generating a first image of the rear of the dairy livestock using a first camera; determining a reference point based at least in part upon the first image; positioning a second camera relative to the reference point; generating a second image of udder of the dairy livestock using the second camera; and determining a location of at least one teat of the dairy livestock based at least in part upon the second image. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein attaching milking equipment to the dairy livestock is based at least in part upon the determined location of the at least one teat of the dairy livestock. 26. The method of claim 17, wherein the milking equipment comprises a milking cup. 27. The method of claim 17, further comprising: removing the milking equipment from the dairy livestock; and opening an exit gate of the stall. 