A biosensor is described which can obtain physiological data from an individual. The biosensor may collect electrodermal activity, skin temperature, and other information. The biosensor may be attached to the body through the use of a garment which may be fastened in multiple locations on the human body. The biosensor includes compensation for electrodermal activity measurements based on the amount of pressure applied to the electrodes that are in contact with the skin. As pressure is increased the electrodermal activity values typically increase. By compensating for the influence that pressure changes have on electrodermal activity, more accurate analysis of physiology and therefore mental state analysis may be performed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processor-implemented method for measuring physiology comprising: capturing electrodermal activity readings from a body via electrodes which are in contact with skin; collecting pressure information on an amount of pressure applied to the electrodes by a pressure sensing means, which are in contact with the skin; and compensating the electrodermal activity readings based on the pressure information which was collected. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the pressure sensing means comprises one or more of force sensitive resistors, piezoelectric devices, piezoelectric polymers, pressure sensitive materials, and pressure sensitive gels. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the compensating is accomplished using one or more of circuitry, a processor, software, and firmware. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the compensating is accomplished in real time as the electrodermal activity readings are captured. 5. The method according to claim 1 further comprising correcting electrodermal activity evaluations based on temperature of the skin. 6. The method according to claim 1 further comprising correcting electrodermal activity evaluations based on sensed humidity. 7. The method according to claim 1 further comprising evaluating skin temperature. 8. The method according to claim 7 further comprising compensating skin temperature evaluation based on pressure applied to the electrodes. 9. A computer program product embodied in a non-transitory computer readable medium for measuring physiology, the computer program product comprising: code for capturing electrodermal activity readings from a body via electrodes which are in contact with skin; code for collecting pressure information on an amount of pressure applied to the electrodes by a pressure sensing means, which are in contact with the skin; and code for compensating the electrodermal activity readings based on the pressure information which was collected. 10. The computer program product according to claim 9 wherein the pressure sensing means comprises one or more of force sensitive resistors, piezoelectric devices, piezoelectric polymers, pressure sensitive materials, and pressure sensitive gels. 11. The computer program product according to claim 9 wherein the compensating is accomplished using one or more of circuitry, a processor, software, and firmware. 12. The computer program product according to claim 9 wherein the compensating is accomplished in real time as the electrodermal activity readings are captured. 13. The computer program product according to claim 9 further comprising code for correcting electrodermal activity evaluations based on temperature of the skin. 14. The computer program product according to claim 9 further comprising code for correcting electrodermal activity evaluations based on sensed humidity. 15. The computer program product according to claim 9 further comprising code for evaluating skin temperature. 16. The computer program product according to claim 15 further comprising code for compensating skin temperature evaluation based on pressure applied to the electrodes. 17. A system for measuring physiology comprising: a memory which stores instructions; one or more processors coupled to the memory wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instructions which are stored, are configured to: capture electrodermal activity readings from a body via electrodes which are in contact with skin; collect pressure information on an amount of pressure applied to the electrodes, which are in contact with the skin; and compensate the electrodermal activity readings based on the pressure information which was collected. 18. The system according to claim 17 wherein compensating is accomplished in real time as the electrodermal activity readings are captured. 19. The system according to claim 17 wherein the one or more processors are further configured to correct electrodermal activity evaluations based on temperature of the skin. 20. The system according to claim 17 wherein the one or more processors are further configured to correct electrodermal activity evaluations based on sensed humidity. 