A robotic finger is provided that includes a base joint connected to a base member. By way of the base joint, a main finger member is connected to the base member for pivoting movements of the main finger member in two planes. The base joint has two driven main bevel gears opposite one another, and two likewise opposing intermediate bevel gears disposed between the main bevel gears. The main bevel gears are mounted rotatably at the base member and can be driven independently of one another through electric motors and an intermediate toothed belt. The two intermediate bevel gears are each rotatably mounted at support members connected to the main finger member. To protect the base joint, a curved cover bracket is provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot finger comprising a main finger member connected to a base member via a base joint, said main finger member being connected to said base member for pivoting movement in two planes, and said base joint comprising two driven, mutually confronting main bevel gears supported for rotation on the base member, and said base joint further comprising two intermediate bevel gears arranged between the main bevel gears and being each held on a holding member of the main finger member, wherein a cover bracket extending from one of said holding members to the other holding member, wherein said cover bracket extends between the main bevel gears. 2. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein said cover bracket is shaped as a ring segment. 3. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein said cover bracket is arranged in abutment on an outer side of each holding members. 4. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein said cover bracket is connected to the holding members for pivotal movement about a second rotational axis of the respective intermediate bevel gear. 5. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein said cover bracket is open in the direction of the main finger member. 6. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein the cover bracket has a side face facing in the direction of the main bevel gears that is beveled, said side face extending substantially parallel to a tooth flank of the corresponding main bevel gear. 7. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein said cover bracket has a substantially trapezoidal cross section. 8. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein the main bevel gears are rotatable on a common rotational axis but independently of each other. 9. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein the intermediate bevel gears are rotatable on a common rotational axis but independently of each other. 10. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein the holding elements are connected to each other via a connection member and are formed in one piece. 11. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein the main bevel gears can be driven independently of each other by a respective drive motor arranged on the base member. 12. The robot finger according to claim 1, wherein at least one further finger member is articulated to the main finger member. 13. A robot hand comprising a hand base and a plurality of robot fingers according to claim 1 that are connected to said hand base. 14. A robot hand comprising a hand base, and a plurality of robot fingers that are connected to said hand base, wherein each robot finger comprises: a main finger member connected to a base member via a base joint, said main finger member being connected to said base member for pivoting movement in two planes, and said base joint comprising two driven, mutually confronting main bevel gears supported for rotation on the base member, and said base joint further comprising two intermediate bevel gears arranged between the main bevel gears and being each held on a holding member of the main finger member, wherein a cover bracket extending from one of said holding members to the other holding member. 15. A robot finger comprising a main finger member connected to a base member via a base joint, said main finger member being connected to said base member for pivoting movement in two planes, and said base joint comprising two driven, mutually confronting main bevel gears supported for rotation on the base member, and said base joint further comprising two intermediate bevel gears arranged between the main bevel gears and being each held on a holding member of the main finger member, wherein a cover bracket extending from one of said holding members to the other holding member, wherein the cover bracket has a side face facing in the direction of the main bevel gears that is beveled, said side face extending substantially parallel to a tooth flank of the corresponding main bevel gear. 