A suction gripper includes a cup member, a suction port, and a valve. The cup member has inner and outer surfaces defining an opening such that the inner surface defines an inner cavity. The suction port provides suction. The valve in is fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween. The valve is operatively coupled to the cup member and is adapted to passively actuate in response to an applied force to the cup member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A suction gripping system, comprising: a flexible sheet including a suction tube along a length thereof; and a plurality of suction grippers comprising a cup member having inner and outer surfaces defining an opening, the inner surface defining an inner cavity; a suction port configured to provide a suction; and a valve in fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween, wherein the valve is operatively coupled to the cup member and is adapted to passively actuate in response to an applied force to the cup member, wherein each suction gripper is disposed along the length of the flexible sheet, wherein each suction port is operatively coupled to the suction tube and configured to provide a suction. 2. A method, comprising: positioning a cup member against a workpiece, wherein the cup member having inner and outer surfaces defining an opening, the inner surface defining an inner cavity; activating a suction port configured to provide a suction; passively regulating a fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween in response to an applied force to the cup member; plugging an orifice of the suction port when no force is applied to the cup member by a plug disposed substantially at a center of the cup member and opposite to the opening; and unplugging an orifice of the suction port when a threshold force is applied to the cup member by the plug, the orifice located substantially at the center of the cup member. 3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising activating a vacuum to provide the suction. 4. A suction gripper, comprising: a substrate; a cup member having inner and outer surfaces defining an opening, the inner surface defining an inner cavity, wherein the cup member is mechanically coupled to the substrate and is moveable from a first position to a second position; a suction port configured to provide a suction; a valve in fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween, the valve configured to open and close; and a mechanical linkage assembly adapted to open the valve when the cup member is in the first position and close the valve when the cup member is in the second position, wherein the valve comprises a plug disposed substantially at the center of the cup member and opposite to the opening to plug an orifice of the suction port when no force is applied to the cup member, the orifice located substantially at the center of the cup member. 5. The suction gripper according to claim 4, wherein the mechanical linkage assembly includes a hinge adapted to lift the plug of the valve when the cup member is in the second position. 6. A suction gripper comprising: a substrate. a cup member having inner and outer surfaces defining an opening, the inner surface defining an inner cavity, wherein the cup member is mechanically coupled to the substrate and is moveable from a first position to a second position; a suction port configured to provide a suction; a valve in fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween, the valve configured to open and close; and a mechanical linkage assembly adapted to open the valve when the cup member is in the first position and close the valve when the cup member is in the second position, wherein the valve comprises a plug disposed substantially at the center of the cup member and opposite to the opening to plug an orifice of the suction port when no force is applied to the cup member, wherein the valve comprises a plug, the plug comprising: an elongated shaft defining a central axis, and having first and second ends; a flange coupled to the first end of the elongated shaft and extending in a radial direction perpendicular to the central axis of the elongated shaft; at least one spring coupled to the flange and a base of the cup member thereby providing elasticity therebetween; and a tip coupled to the second end of the elongated shaft and shaped to plug an orifice of the suction port. 7. A suction gripper, comprising: a cup member having inner and outer surfaces defining an opening, the inner surface defining an inner cavity; a suction port configured to provide a suction; and a valve in fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween, wherein the valve is operatively coupled to the cup member and is adapted to passively actuate in response to an applied force to the cup member, wherein the valve comprises a plug disposed substantially at a center of the cup member and opposite to the opening to plug an orifice of the suction port when no force is applied to the cup member and unplug the orifice when a threshold force is applied to the cup member, the orifice located substantially at the center of the cup member. 8. The suction gripper according to claim 7, wherein the plug comprises a tip in proximity to a sealing surface, wherein the tip is made of a soft material, and wherein the plug and the sealing surface are conical. 9. The suction gripper according to claim 7, the plug further comprising: an elongated shaft defining an axis, and having first and second ends; a flange coupled to the first end of the elongated shaft and extending in a radial direction perpendicular to the axis of the elongated shaft; at least one spring coupled to the flange and a base of the cup member; and a tip coupled to the second end of the elongated shaft and shaped to plug an orifice of the suction port. 10. The suction gripper according to claim 7, further comprising: a base of the cup member formed opposite to the opening of the cup member, the base having a first surface partially forming the inner cavity of the cup member, and a second surface opposite to the first surface; a collar defining a central axis, and having proximal and distal sides, the collar having a tube disposed about parallel to the central axis, wherein the proximal side of the collar is disposed adjacent to the second surface of the base of the cup member and the distal side of the collar is disposed a predetermined distance from the second surface of the base of the cup member; an orifice of the suction port defined by a fluid connection between the base of the cup member and the tube in the collar; a plug comprising: an elongated shaft defining a central axis, and having first and second ends; a flange coupled to the first end of the elongated shaft and extending in a radial direction perpendicular to the central axis of the elongated shaft; at least one spring coupled to the flange and the base of the cup member thereby providing elasticity therebetween; and a tip coupled to the second end of the elongated shaft and shaped to plug the orifice of the suction port; a lip along the opening of the cup member. 11. The suction gripper according to claim 7, wherein the valve further comprises a spring whereby the valve is normally closed. 12. The suction gripper according to claim 7, wherein the cup includes a rigid cylinder. 13. The suction gripper according to claim 7, wherein cup includes a lip defining the opening of the cup member. 14. The suction gripper according to claim 13, wherein the lip flares outward from the cup member. 15. The suction gripper according to claim 7, further comprising a rigid tube coupled to the suction port to provide the suction. 16. The suction gripper according to claim 7, further comprising: a base of the cup member formed opposite to the opening of the cup member, the base having a first surface partially forming the inner cavity of the cup member, and a second surface opposite to the first surface; and a collar defining a central axis, and having proximal and distal sides, wherein the proximal side of the collar is disposed adjacent to the second surface of the base of the cup member and the distal side of the collar is disposed a predetermined distance from the second surface of the base of the cup member, wherein an outer surface of the collar slopes inwardly from the distal side to the proximal side. 17. The suction gripper according to claim 16, further comprising a hinge shaped to engage the collar thereby providing a lever action as the base is stretched over the proximal side of the collar. 18. The suction gripper according to claim 7, the cup member further comprising: a hinge radial partition coupled to the plug and extending therefrom, wherein the hinge radial partition is formed of a rigid material; and a side radial partition extending from the plug and forming a hole adjacent to the plug, wherein the side radial partition is formed of a soft material. 19. The suction gripper according to claim 18, further comprising a collar having proximal and distal sides, wherein the proximal side of the collar is shaped to cooperate with the hinge partition to lift the plug out of the orifice of the suction port. 20. The suction gripper according to claim 19, wherein the distal side of the collar is attached to a base formed of a soft material. 21. The suction gripper according to claim 18, further comprising: a collar having proximal and distal sides; and a ring-shaped spring having top and bottom surfaces, wherein the top surface is attached to the hinge radial partition and to the side radial partition thereby preventing air leakage from the orifice and around the outer surface of the cup member. 22. The suction gripper according to claim 7, the cup member further comprising: first, second, and third hinge radial partitions each coupled to the plug and extending therefrom, wherein each of the hinge radial partitions is formed of a rigid material; and first, second, and third side radial partitions each extending from the plug and forming a hole adjacent to the plug, each of the radial partitions is made of a soft material; wherein the first hinge radial partition is adjacent to the first side radial partition, the second hinge radial partition is adjacent to the first hinge radial partition, the second side radial partition is adjacent to the second hinge radial partition, the third hinge radial partition is adjacent to the second side radial partition, the third side radial partition is adjacent to the first hinge radial partition and the third hinge radial partition; and a collar having proximal and distal sides, wherein the proximal side of the collar is shaped to cooperate with the first, second, and third hinge radial partitions to lift the plug out of the orifice of the suction port; and a ring-shaped spring having top and bottom surfaces, wherein the top surface is attached to the first, second, and third hinge radial partitions and to the first, second and third side radial partition thereby preventing air leakage from the orifice and around the outer surface of the cup member. 23. The suction gripper according to claim 7, further comprising a mechanical linkage assembly comprising a lifting member, wherein the mechanical linkage assembly is coupled to the cup, and the lifting member is adapted to lift the plug out of the orifice when a force is applied to the cup member. 24. A suction gripper, comprising: a cup member having inner and outer surfaces defining an opening, the inner surface defining an inner cavity; a suction port configured to provide a suction; a valve in fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween, wherein the valve is operatively coupled to the cup member and is adapted to passively actuate in response to force applied to the cup member; and a plug, the plug comprising: an elongated shaft defining an axis, and having first and second ends; a flange coupled to the first end of the elongated shaft and extending in a radial direction perpendicular to the axis of the elongated shaft; at least one spring coupled to the flange and a base of the cup member; and a tip made from a soft material and coupled to the second end of the elongated shaft and shaped to plug an orifice of the suction port. 25. The suction gripper according to claim 24, wherein the elongated shaft and the flange are made of a rigid material. 26. The suction gripper according to claim 24, further comprising a mechanical linkage assembly comprising a lifting member, wherein the mechanical linkage assembly is coupled to the cup, and the lifting member is adapted to lift the tip out of the orifice when a force is applied to the cup member. 27. The suction gripper according to claim 24, further comprising a lifting member leveraged against the cup member to lift the tip out of the orifice when the cup member moves relative to a collar. 28. A suction gripper, comprising: a cup member having inner and outer surfaces defining an opening, the inner surface defining an inner cavity; a suction port configured to provide a suction; a valve in fluid communication with the suction port and the inner cavity of the cup member to modify the suction therebetween, wherein the valve is operatively coupled to the cup member and is adapted to passively actuate in response to a force applied to the cup member; a base of the cup member formed opposite to the opening of the cup member, the base having a first surface partially forming the inner cavity of the cup member, and a second surface opposite to the first surface; a collar defining a central axis, and having proximal and distal sides, the collar having a tube disposed about parallel to the central axis, wherein the proximal side of the collar is disposed adjacent to the second surface of the base of the cup member and the distal side of the collar is disposed a predetermined distance from the second surface of the base of the cup member; an orifice of the suction port defined by a fluid connection between the base of the cup member and the tube in the collar; a plug comprising: a elongated shaft defining a central axis, and having first and second ends; a flange coupled to the first end of the elongated shaft and extending in a radial direction perpendicular to the central axis of the elongated shaft; at least one spring coupled to the flange and the base of the cup member thereby providing elasticity therebetween; and a tip coupled to the second end of the elongated shaft and shaped to plug the orifice of the suction port; a lip along the opening of the cup member. 29. The suction gripper according to claim 21, wherein the cup member includes a rigid cylinder having an open top and bottom, wherein the lip is attached to the top of the rigid cylinder forming the opening of the cup member, and the base is attached to the bottom of the rigid cylinder. 30. The suction gripper according to claim 29, further comprising at least one hinge coupled to the base and shaped to lift the flange of the plug when the base is stretched over the proximal side of the collar. 31. The suction gripper according to claim 30, wherein the at least one hinge includes at least one bend along a length thereof. 