A method and software implementation for spatial pattern analysis. A user-guided test procedure is implemented to measure features of an antenna under test to determine the antenna's far-field patterns. The antenna features include RF amplitude or phase, and position and orientation relative to a receiving object.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An antenna test system, comprising: an RF transmitting object; an RF receiving object; a position sensor adapted to determine and output coordinate location data for at least one of said RF transmitting and receiving object; an orientation sensor adapted to determine and output orientation data for said at least one RF transmitting and receiving object; a test pattern generator coupled to said RF transmitting object for transmitting a test signal therethrough; a waveform analyzer coupled to said RF receiving object for determining and storing amplitude data of said received RF test signal; software for generating a user interface for compiling a test plan including a plurality of test points of said RF transmitting object relative to said receiving object, for implementing said test plan by coordinating timed measurements of said position sensor, orientation sensor, and waveform analyzer, and for generating a graphical spatial representation of said RF transmitting object and RF receiving object inclusive of a progress of said test plan and test results. 2. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said software comprises a plurality of modules including a main module and a plurality of service modules each dedicated to communicating with a driver of said position sensor, orientation sensor, test pattern generator, and waveform analyzer over an-IP based network. 3. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said RF receiving object comprises an RF probe mounted on a roving test station. 4. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said RF transmitting object comprises an RF antenna mounted on a roving test station. 5. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said RF transmitting object comprises an antenna under test coupled to said test pattern generator. 6. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said software compensates said coordinate location data based on the multi-axis orientation data. 7. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said software comprises a rotational matrix for compensating said coordinate location data. 8. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said software for generating a graphical spatial representation presents a graphical user interface that displays an emission pattern for said RF transmitting object. 9. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said software for generating a user interface for compiling a test plan allows an operator to define test equipment, test objects and configurations, test scenarios and sequences, and test frequency plans. 10. The antenna test system according to claim 1, wherein said software for implementing said test plan generates a user interface for guiding a user in placement, movement, and attitude of said RF transmitting object or RF receiving object. 11. An antenna test system, comprising: a first processing sequence adapted to display a graphical user interface for allowing a user to load an RF test plan including measurements at a plurality of test points, control implementation of said RF test plan, and initiate acquisition of RF measurement data at said plurality of test points; a second processing sequence adapted to determine location and orientation data for a plurality of test points; a third processing sequence adapted to determine position of a GPS measuring device mounted on a mobile test platform; a fourth processing sequence adapted to control and store measurement data from a spectrum analyzer connected to at least one antenna; a fifth processing sequence adapted to determine adjusted location and orientation of said a least one antenna based on offsets between said antenna and said GPS measuring device. 