A sample processing system that may be automated and methods are disclosed where samples are arranged on a carrier element and a process operation control system automatically processes the samples perhaps robotically with an operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information monitor or a data capture element. Significant process details as well as operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information may be monitored and an automatic notice element may cause notification of a person at some display that may be remote. Various people may be notified, such as an administrator, a supplier, or a manufacturer of an opportunity for some action such as reagent reordering or the like. A simulated motion display may be included to "watch" simulated operation in real time or long after completion of the actual processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automated sample processing comprising the steps of: establishing a network including at least one stainer, the at least one stainer having an automated process operation capability that causes automated process operation events through movement of a robotic member; receiving a protocol in the at least one stainer via the network; scheduling a plurality of sample process operations based on the protocol, the plurality of sample process operations including fluid dispensing by the robotic member; monitoring operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information; automatically processing at least one sample arranged on a first slide using the at least one stainer at least in part through operation of said robotic member sequencing through said scheduled plurality of sample process operations; inserting a second slide into the at least one stainer, wherein inserting the second slide does not interrupt fluid dispensing of the robotic member; and informing at least one person of at least some exteriorly-consequential information in response to said step of monitoring operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information. 2. The method of automated sample processing of claim 1, wherein the at least one stainer includes at least one reagent container, and wherein said step of monitoring usage information comprises the step of monitoring usage of reagent. 3. The method of automated sample processing of claim 2, further comprising the step of automatically advance notifying at least one person of a need for replenishing reagent of the at least one reagent container. 4. The method of automated sample processing of claim 1, wherein said step of monitoring operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information comprises the step of monitoring predictive usage information. 5. The method of automated sample processing of claim 4, wherein said step of monitoring predictive usage information comprises the step of utilizing order lead time information, utilizing reagent order lead time information, or utilizing maintenance lead time information. 6. The method of automated sample processing of claim 1, wherein said step of informing at least one person of at least some exteriorly-consequential information comprises the step of automatically informing at least one operator, an administrator, one supplier or one manufacturer of at least some exteriorly-consequential information. 7. The method of automated sample processing of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second protocol for processing the second slide in the at least one stainer via the network; and scheduling a second plurality of sample process operations based on the second protocol, wherein informing at least one person of at least some exteriorly-consequential information includes informing the at least one person of the insertion of the second slide and of a need for replenishing reagent of the at least one reagent container. 8. The method of automated sample processing of claim 7, further comprising inserting at least one new reagent container into the at least one stainer, where inserting the at least one new reagent container does not interfere with the fluid dispensing of the robotic member. 9. A method of automated sample processing comprising the steps of: establishing a network including at least one stainer, the at least one stainer having an automated process operation capability that causes automated process operation events through movement of a robotic member; receiving a protocol in the at least one of stainer via the network; scheduling a plurality of sample process operations based on the protocol, the plurality of sample process operations including fluid dispensing by the robotic member; processing at least one biological sample arranged on a first slide at least in part through operation of said robotic member sequencing through said scheduled plurality of sample process operations; inserting a second slide into the at least one stainer, wherein inserting the second slide does not interrupt fluid dispensing of the robotic; storing details of a number of said plurality of sample process operations as the sample process operations occur; and receiving an instruction from a user to establish a connection between said network and a remote location, and to display at least a portion of said details at said remote location. 10. A method as described in claim 9, wherein said network is connected to a laboratory network or a laboratory information system. 11. A method as described in claim 9, wherein said connection is established from the network to a remote location that is a manufacturer, supplier, or maintenance personnel location. 12. A method as described in claim 9, wherein storing details of a number of said plurality of sample process operations as the sample process operations occur further comprises storing slide status or processing sequence protocol. 13. An automated sample processing system comprising: a control system configured to receive a protocol via a network, said control system being configured to at least partially process at least one biological sample arranged on a first slide, and further configured to receive and process a second slide; a robotic motion system responsive to said control system configured to move a robotic member and to dispense fluids from the robotic member, wherein receiving the second slide does not interrupt fluid dispensing of the robotic member; a multiple event scheduler configured to schedule a plurality of sample process operations based on the protocol, said robotic motion system being at least in part responsive to the multiple even scheduler; an operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information monitor configured to monitor usage information of the sample processing system; and an exteriorly-consequential information notice element responsive to said operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information monitor, said exteriorly-consequential information notice element configured to inform at least one person of the operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information. 14. The automated sample processing system of claim 13, further comprising a historical usage information monitor, wherein the stainer also includes at least one reagent container. 15. The automated sample processing system of claim 14, further comprising an automatic predictive need notice element that determines a need for replenishing reagent of the at least one reagent container. 16. The automated sample processing system of claim 15, wherein said operationally-influential exteriorly-consequential information monitor comprises a predictive usage information element. 17. The automated sample processing system of claim 16, wherein said predictive usage information element comprises an order lead time information data element, a reagent order lead time information data element, or a maintenance lead time information data element. 18. The automated sample processing system of claim 17, wherein said exteriorly-consequential information notice element comprises an automatic operator exteriorly-consequential information notice element, an automatic administrator exteriorly-consequential information notice element, an automatic supplier exteriorly-consequential information notice element, or an automatic manufacturer exteriorly-consequential information notice element. 19. The automated sample processing system of claim 13, wherein the control system is further configured to receive a second protocol via the network; the multiple event scheduler is further configured to schedule a second plurality of sample process operations based on the second protocol, and the exteriorly-consequential information notice element is configured to inform the at least one person of the insertion of the second slide and of a need for replenishing reagent of the at least one reagent container. 20. The automated sample processing system of claim 19, wherein the control system is further configured to receive at least one new reagent container, and wherein receiving the at least one new reagent container does not interrupt fluid dispensing of the robotic member. 