An adhesive composition comprising as principal components, a polymerizable component, an ambient temperature radical polymerization catalyst system and a photoinitiator. The adhesive may optionally comprise an adhesion promoter, a toughener, an epoxy, and a filler material. Further, a two-part reactive adhesive comprising, a first part comprising, (i) at least one free radical-polymerizable monomer, (ii) at least one reducing agent, and (iii) a photoinitiator, and a second part comprising an oxidizing agent that is reactive at ambient temperature with the reducing agent to produce free radicals that are capable of initiating and propagating free radical polymerization.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a hem flange assembly, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning a first panel adjacent to a second panel such that an edge of the second panel extends beyond an edge of the first panel; (b) folding the non-overlapping portion of the second panel over the edge of the first panel to form a hem flange joint; (c) applying an over hem sealer to cover the hem flange joint, the over hem sealer comprising: (i) at least one free-radical polymerizable monomer; (ii) an ambient temperature radical initiator system comprising at least one oxidizing agent and at least one reducing agent; (iii) a photoinitiator; and, (iv) an epoxy compound; wherein the adhesive will at least partially cure at a temperature between 10.degree. C. and 40.degree. C. through the ambient temperature radical catalyst system; (d) allowing the ambient temperature cure to take place, wherein at least a portion of the surface of the sealer remains uncured and slightly tacky; and (e) curing the surface of the sealer by exposing the surface to electromagnetic energy to activate the photoinitiator. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein after exposing the surface to electromagnetic energy, the surface is tack-free. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface is exposed to electromagnetic energy by means of a robotic arm comprising an electromagnetic energy source. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealer is dispensed through an applicator tip mounted on a controllable robotic arm. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the over hem sealer is applied to a bare metal hem flange joint. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising (g) painting over the cured over hem sealer to provide a painted hem flange assembly. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic energy comprises visible light. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the photoinitiator comprises a phosphine oxide photoinitiator. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the photoinitiator comprises 2,4,6-trimethylbenzoyldiphenylphosphine. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the photoinitiator comprises an alpha-hydroxyketone. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the photoinitiator comprises 2-hydroxy-2-methyl-1-phenyl-1-propanone. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the monomer comprises at least one of tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate, methacrylic acid, and methyl methacrylate. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the reducing agent comprises a tertiary amine. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the reducing agent is selected from N,N-diisopropanol-p-chloroaniline; N,N-diisopropanol-p-bromoaniline; N,N-diisopropanol-p-bromo-m-methylaniline; N,N-dimethyl-p-chloroaniline; N,N-dimethyl-p-bromoaniline; N,N-diethyl-p-chloroaniline; and N,N-diethyl-p-bromoaniline. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the oxidizing agent comprises an organic peroxide. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising an adhesion promoter. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the adhesion promoter comprises a phosphorous containing adhesion promoter. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising a toughener. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the toughener comprises an olefinic-terminated liquid elastomer produced from a hydroxyl-terminated polyalkadiene. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the toughener comprises an A-B-A block copolymer wherein the A block is selected from styrene, ring alkylated styrene or a mixture thereof and the B block is an elastomeric segment having a low T.sub.g selected from conjugated diene or ethylene-propylene. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the epoxy compound comprises a polyepoxide. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the epoxy compound is selected form a polyglycidyl ether of a polyhydric alcohol and a polyglycidyl ester of a polycarboxylic acid. 