A method for assessing the positioning accuracy of a medical robot arm comprising at least one joint, wherein the rigidity of the robot arm in a joint placement is calculated and assessed on the basis of a rigidity model.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assessing the positioning accuracy of a medical robot arm that includes at least one joint and a computational unit operatively coupled to the at least one joint, the computational unit configured to access a rigidity model corresponding to the robot arm, the method comprising: using the computational unit to calculate and assess a rigidity of the robot arm, said rigidity calculated based on the rigidity model; calculating a working space which can be traveled by the robot arm based on the calculated rigidity and a predetermined minimum rigidity; and determining if the calculated working space includes a space necessary to perform a specific task. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating the rigidity of the robot arm includes basing the calculation of the rigidity on mechanical rigidity of the robot arm. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein calculating the rigidity of the robot arm includes basing the calculation of the rigidity on at least one of a rigidity of the at least one joint or arm sections of the robot arm. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating the rigidity of the robot arm includes basing the calculation of the rigidity on control rigidity. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating the working space includes basing the calculation of the working space on a force acting on the robot arm. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating the working space includes basing the calculation of the working space on a weight of the robot arm. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising calculating an anchoring point of the robot arm based on the calculated rigidity and a working space to be traveled by the robotic arm. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising outputting a warning when the calculated rigidity of the robot arm falls below a defined boundary value. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising selecting from a number of possible joint placements a joint placement of the at least one joint for which predefined criteria regarding the rigidity of the robot arm are fulfilled. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising selecting from a number of possible joint placements a joint placement of the at least one joint from which it is possible to reach a predetermined working space using only continuous changes in joint placement without falling below the predetermined minimum rigidity. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising comparing a measured robot arm position with a calculated robot arm position, the calculated robot arm position based on the rigidity model. 12. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions adapted to perform the method according to claim 1. 13. A control device for a medical robot arm comprising at least one joint, which is configured to perform the method according claim 1. 14. An operation system, comprising a robot arm and a control device according to claim 13. 15. The method according to claim 1, further comprising assessing the positioning accuracy of the robot arm, wherein assessing includes determining a deviation between an actual position of the robot arm and a theoretical position of the robot arm. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein determining the deviation includes determining the theoretical position of the robot arm based on a position of the at least one joint. 17. A method for controlling a position of a medical robot arm that includes at least one joint and a computational unit operatively coupled to the at least one joint, the computational unit configured to access a rigidity model corresponding to the robot arm, the method comprising: using the computational unit to calculate a rigidity of the robot arm based on the rigidity model, said calculation performed for a position of the at least one joint that achieves a target position of the robot arm; comparing the calculated rigidity of the robot arm to a predetermined minimum rigidity value; and the computational unit commanding the at least one joint to the position when the calculated rigidity is greater than the minimum rigidity value. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising outputting a warning when the calculated rigidity of the robot arm falls below a defined boundary value. 19. The method according to claim 17, further comprising selecting a joint placement of the at least one joint for which predefined criteria regarding the rigidity of the robot arm are fulfilled. 20. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions adapted to perform the method according to claim 17. 21. A control device for a medical robot arm comprising at least one joint, which is configured to perform the method according claim 17. 22. A method for assessing the positioning accuracy of a medical robot arm that includes at least one joint and a computational unit operatively coupled to the at least one joint, comprising: using the computational unit to calculate a rigidity of the robot arm over a plurality of different positions of the at least one joint based on a rigidity model corresponding to the medical robot arm; using the calculated rigidity of the medical robot arm to determine positions of the at least one joint that maintain a predetermined minimum rigidity of the medical robot arm. 