A system for testing with an automated test equipment (ATE) includes a tester having at least one test resource, a tandem handler, and a mux relay that switchably connects the test resource, via parallel connections, to either one of dual sockets at each instant of testing. The handler has first and second manipulator arms. Each arm operates as to a particular one of the respective sockets, to retrieve a next device to be tested and position the device in the socket (while testing is performed on a device in the other socket), to disposition the device from the socket once testing is completed as to the device in the socket, and thereafter repeat until all staged devices for testing have been tested (or an interruption of testing otherwise occurs). The mux relay switches between sockets in response to the tandem handler acting as a master and the tester as slave. Upon completion of testing via the test resource as to an applicable pin of one socket, the test resource is switchably connected via the mux relay to a functionally same applicable pin of the other socket.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of testing, comprising: first manipulating a to-be-tested device (TBTD) of a plurality of TBTDs, via a first robot, into connection with a first pin stimulatable by a test resource of a tester; first controlling the tester to connect the test resource to the first pin and commence a test by the tester at the first pin on the TBTD connected to the first pin; second manipulating another TBTD of the plurality of TBTDs, via a second robot, into connection with a second pin stimulatable by the test resource of the tester; second controlling the tester to connect the test resource to the second pin and commence the test by the tester at the second pin on the TBTD connected to the second pin; and master controlling to perform at least part of the first manipulating as to each next successive TBTD of the plurality of TBTDs during test by the tester at the second pin, to perform the second controlling upon completion of test by the tester at the first pin, to perform at least part of the second manipulating as to each next successive TBTD of the plurality of TBTDs during test by the tester at the first pin, and to perform the first controlling upon completion of test by the tester at the second pin, wherein the first controlling commences immediately upon completion of the test by the tester at the second pin. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: first mechanically prepping each successive TBTD that is to be connected to the first pin, prior to connection to the first pin via the first manipulating and prior to the first controlling corresponding to the TBTD to be so connected; second mechanically prepping each successive TBTD that is to be connected to the second pin, prior to connection to the second pin via the second manipulating and prior to the second controlling corresponding to the TBTD to be so connected; first mechanically outputting each successive TBTD connected to the first pin, after completion of test by the tester resource at the first pin; and second mechanically outputting each successive TBTD connected to the second pin, after completion of test by the tester at the second pin. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first robot and the second robot are not the same. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first robot and the second robot are mechanically connected and controlled by common logic. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first mechanically outputting is performed by a first output robot and the second mechanically outputting is performed by a second output robot, wherein the first output robot and the second output robot are mechanically connected and controlled by common logic; and wherein each of the first robot and the second robot are mechanically connected to the first output robot and the second output robot, and controlled by the common logic. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first robot and the second robot are each selected from a group consisting of a transport, a preparer, a test unit and a manipulator, and wherein the first output robot and the second output robot are each selected from a group consisting of an output transport, an output stager, an output test unit, and an output manipulator. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first robot and the second robot are each a respective core manipulator of a handler connected to the tester. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the first robot and the second robot are each selected from a group comprising of a transport, a preparer, a test unit and a manipulator, and wherein the first output robot and the second output robot are each selected from a group comprising of an output transport, an output stager, an output test unit, and an output manipulator. 9. The method of claim 3, wherein the first mechanically outputting is performed by a first output robot and the second mechanically outputting is performed by a second output robot, and wherein the first output robot and the second output robot are mechanically connected and controlled by common logic. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the testing continues when one of the first robot and the second robot becomes inoperable. 11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including a computer-executable program for implementing a process, comprising: first manipulating a to-be-tested device (TBTD) of a plurality of TBTDs, via a first robot, into connection with a first pin stimulatable by a test resource of a tester; first controlling the tester to connect the test resource to the first pin and commence a test by the tester at the first pin on the TBTD connected to the first pin; second manipulating another TBTD of the plurality of TBTDs, via a second robot, into connection with a second pin stimulatable by the test resource of the tester; second controlling the tester to connect the test resource to the second pin and commence the test by the tester at the second pin on the TBTD connected to the second pin; and master controlling to perform at least part of the first manipulating as to each next successive TBTD of the plurality of TBTDs during test by the tester at the second pin, to perform the second controlling upon completion of test by the tester at the first pin, to perform at least part of the second manipulating as to each next successive TBTD of the plurality of TBTDs during test by the tester at the first pin, and to perform the first controlling upon completion of test by the tester at the second pin, wherein the first controlling commences immediately upon completion of the test by the tester at the second pin. 