A method and device for the pretreatment of polymer surfaces of components to be painted. At least one polymer surface of at least one component is preheated to a temperature that minimizes condensation on the component when the component is subsequently cleaned inside a pretreatment cell and then treated with an oxidizing flame. The cleaning of the polymer surface as well as the treatment of the polymer surface with an oxidizing flame are performed inside the same pretreatment cell.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for the pretreatment of polymer surfaces of components to be painted, the method including the steps of: preheating at least one component to a temperature that minimizes condensation on the component when the component is subsequently cleaned inside a pretreatment cell; cleaning at least one polymer surface inside the pretreatment cell; and treating the at least one component polymer surface with an oxidizing flame, wherein the cleaning of the polymer surface as well as the treatment of the polymer surface with an oxidizing flame are performed inside the same pretreatment cell. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein impurities removed from the polymer surface by the cleaning are removed by an air flow formed in the pretreatment cell. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the polymer surface is cleaned-by means of a carbon dioxide cleaning method. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein, after cleaning of the polymer surface, the polymer surface is inspected for residual impurities in order to determine a degree of impurity and the treatment of the surface with an oxidizing flame is performed only if the degree of impurity detected falls below a predetermined maximum degree of impurity. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein impurities removed from the polymer surface by the cleaning are removed by an air flow formed in the pretreatment cell. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein, after cleaning of the polymer surface, the polymer surface is inspected for residual impurities in order to determine a degree of impurity and the treatment of the surface with an oxidizing flame is performed only if the degree of impurity detected falls below a predetermined maximum degree of impurity. 7. The method according to claim 3, wherein the carbon dioxide cleaning method is a carbon dioxide snow jet method or a carbon dioxide pellet cleaning method. 