Embodiments disclose methods and systems for providing instructions to a robot device. The method may be executable to receive information from a robotic device and determine data responsive to the information. The method may also be executable to determine an order to send the data to the robotic device, where data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a first time is given a first priority and data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a subsequent time is given a second priority. The method is further executable to receive information indicating an amount of available memory on the robotic device and to provide the robotic device an amount of the data responsive to the information that is storable in the amount of available memory on the robotic device and in an order such that data that pertains to the first priority is sent first.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method performed by a processor, the method comprising: receiving information from a robotic device, wherein the robotic device includes a mechanical actuator, wherein the information indicates an amount of available memory on the robotic device, a type of operating system on the robotic device, and a type of sensor available to the robotic device; determining data responsive to the information, wherein the data includes instructions executable by the robotic device; determining an order at which to send the data to the robotic device, wherein data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a first time is given a first priority and data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a subsequent time is given a second priority, wherein the first priority is higher than the second priority; adjusting the order based on the amount of available memory on the robotic device, the type of operating system on the robotic device, and the type of sensor available to the robotic device; and providing to the robotic device an amount of the data responsive to the information that is storable in the amount of available memory on the robotic device and in an order such that data that pertains to the first priority is sent first. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, based on the amount of available memory on the robotic device and the data that pertains to the first priority, determining when to provide the data that pertains to the second priority. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a location input that indicates one or more obstacles within a predetermined distance of the robot. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring activity of the robotic device; and providing to the robotic device data that pertains to the second priority uponafter about completion of the robot functionality to be performed at the first time. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a robot identifier from the robotic device; obtaining a robot specification associated with the robot identifier, wherein the robot specification indicates capabilities of the robotic device; and determining data responsive to the information and in accordance with the robot specification. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data that pertains to the first priority is associated with surroundings of the robotic device. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising a server providing to the robotic device the data responsive to the information. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the information received from the robotic device indicates at least one of an available battery power of the robotic device and an available processing power at the robotic device. 9. A system comprising: a robotic device, wherein the robotic device includes a mechanical actuator; a computing system including a non-transitory computer-readable medium; and program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium and executable by at least one processor to: receive information from the robotic device, wherein the information indicates an amount of available memory on the robotic device, a type of operating system on the robotic device, and a type of sensor available to the robotic device; determine data responsive to the information; determine an order at which to send the data to the robotic device, wherein data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a first time is given a first priority and data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a subsequent time is given a second priority, wherein the first priority is higher than the second priority; adjust the order based on the amount of available memory on the robotic device, the type of operating system on the robotic device, and the type of sensor available to the robotic device; and provide to the robotic device an amount of the data responsive to the information that is storable in the amount of available memory on the robotic device and in an order such that data that pertains to the first priority is sent first. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium and executable by at least one processor to provide to the robotic device data that pertains to the second priority upon completion of the robot functionality to be performed at the first time. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the information received from the robotic device indicates an amount of available processing power at the robotic device. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the information received from the robotic device indicates an available battery power of the robotic device. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the data responsive to the information includes computer executable instructions that are executable to cause a movement of the robotic device. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the information received from the robotic device is at least one of an optical sensor data and global positioning system sensor data. 15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions comprising: receiving information from a robotic device, wherein the information indicates an amount of available memory on the robotic device, a type of operating system on the robotic device, and a type of sensor available to the robotic device; determining data responsive to the information; determining an order at which to send the data to the robotic device, wherein data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a first time is given a first priority and data associated with robot functionality to be performed at a subsequent time is given a second priority, wherein the first priority is higher than the second priority; adjusting the order based on the amount of available memory on the robotic device, the type of operating system on the robotic device, and the type of sensor available to the robotic device; and providing to the robotic device an amount of the data responsive to the information that is storable in the amount of available memory on the robotic device and in an order such that data that pertains to the first priority is sent first. 16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising instructions executable by the computing device for: receiving a robot identifier from the robotic device; obtaining a robot specification associated with the robot identifier, wherein the robot specification indicates capabilities of the robotic device; and determining data responsive to the information and in accordance with the robot specification. 17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the capabilities of the robotic device include at least one of an available battery of the robotic device and an amount of available processing power of the robotic device. 18. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising instructions executable by the computing device for: monitoring activity of the robotic device; and providing to the robotic device data that pertains to the second priority uponaftcr about completion of the robot functionality to be performed at the first time. 19. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising instructions executable by the computing device for receiving a location input that indicates one or more obstacles within a predetermined distance of the robot, the predetermined distance being based on a size of a room in a building. 20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions executable by the computing device indicates a movement of the robotic device. 