A system for unloading a railcar includes an imaging system for generating a model of features of the railcar as the railcar enters an unloading station, and an actuation device in communication with the imaging system for identifying a capstan using model information and engaging the capstans to cause the discharge of material from the railcar.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for unloading a railcar having a door that is movable between a closed position and an opened position wherein material in the railcar is discharged through a discharge opening, the door being movable by an actuation shaft having a capstan with an engagement surface, the system including: an imaging system including a first camera and a first laser, the first camera obtaining first images of portions of the railcar and the first laser scanning portions of the railcar to obtain a first plurality of distance measurements, the imaging system being configured to identify the engagement surface of the capstan by comparing the first plurality of distance measurements to known features of the capstan, perform an image analysis of a plurality of the first images generated at predetermined intervals as the railcar moves past the imaging system to determine motion parameters of the railcar, the image analysis including an absolute value difference calculation between adjacent first images, and generate a model of the railcar using the motion parameters to determine the position of the capstan relative to the railcar when the capstan was identified, an actuation device including a frame mounted for movement along a rail, a power gate opener movably mounted to the frame and having a drive surface for engaging the capstan engagement surface, a second camera obtaining second images of portions of the railcar and a second laser scanning portions of the railcar to obtain a second plurality of distance measurements, and a computing device configured to receive information from the model and use the information to initiate movement along the rail toward the capstan, perform the image analysis with of a plurality of the second images generated at second predetermined intervals to track movement of the actuation device relative to the railcar, identify the engagement surface of the capstan by comparing the second plurality of distance measurements to known features of the capstan, control movement of the drive surface of the power gate opener into engagement with the capstan engagement surface as the actuation device moves along the rail, and control movement of the drive surface to move the capstan, thereby moving the door to the opened position to discharge material through the discharge opening of the gate assembly. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first camera and the first laser are mounted in substantially the same plane. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first laser is a scanning laser configured to obtain the first plurality of distance measurements along a vertical path at fixed intervals of time. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the actuation device further includes an articulated robot arm. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the railcar includes a plurality of doors and a corresponding plurality of capstans and the computing device is configured to control movement of the power gate opener to move each of the plurality of capstans to open each of the plurality of doors. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the computing device is configured to cause closing of the door by controlling rotation of the drive surface to move the capstan in an opposite direction after a portion of the material is discharged. 7. The system of claim 5, the actuation device further including a third laser configured to detect discharge of material through the discharge opening, the computing device being coupled to the third laser to measure the portion of the material. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging system identifies the capstan by identifying distance measurements in the first plurality of distance measurements that appear unconnected to surrounding structure. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging system is activated by movement of the railcar. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the absolute value difference calculation includes comparing a color of an area in one image to a color of a corresponding area in another image and identifying overlapping areas. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein overlapping areas are identified as areas having substantially similar colors. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein movement of areas is indicated by non-overlapping areas. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein non-overlapping areas are identified as high contrast areas. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing device controls movement of the drive surface to accommodate changes in position of the capstan engagement surface while the railcar is in an unloading position. 15. A method for unloading a railcar having a rotatable capstan for opening a discharge opening to discharge material from the railcar, the method including the steps of: generating a three-dimensional model of the railcar using a first camera and a first laser as the railcar moves past the first camera and the first laser; locating the capstan using the three-dimensional model; controlling movement of an actuation device toward the capstan using a second camera and a second laser mounted to the actuation device; and rotating the capstan using the actuation device to open the discharge opening. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the generating step includes the step of performing an image analysis of adjacent sets of data from the first camera to determine movement of features of the undercarriage that pass through a field of view of the first camera. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the first camera is configured to obtain images of an undercarriage of the railcar at predetermined intervals of time. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the first laser is configured to determine distances to features of an undercarriage of the railcar at predetermined intervals of time. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the locating step includes the step of comparing features of the three-dimensional model to known features of the capstan. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the controlling step includes the step of performing an image analysis of adjacent sets of data from the second camera to determine apparent movement of features of the undercarriage as a field of view of the second camera passes the railcar when the railcar is in an unloading position. 21. A system for unloading a railcar having a door that is movable by a capstan between a closed position and an opened position wherein material in the railcar is discharge through a discharge opening, the system including: a fixed imaging system including a first camera configured to obtain a first plurality of images of the railcar at predetermined intervals as the railcar moves past the first camera, and a first laser configured to obtain a first plurality of measurements of distances to features of the railcar at predetermined intervals as the railcar moves past the first laser, wherein the fixed imaging system generates a model of the railcar from the images and the measurements, identifies the capstan from the model, and tracks movement of the capstan away from the first camera by performing an absolute value difference calculation between adjacent images of the first plurality of images; and an actuation device including a frame mounted for movement substantially parallel to movement of the railcar along a rail, a power gate opener mounted to the frame, a second camera mounted to the frame and configured to obtain a second plurality of images of the railcar as the actuation device moves along the rail, a second laser mounted to the frame and configured to obtain a second plurality of measurements of distances to features of the railcar as the actuation device moves along the rail, and a computing device in communication with the fixed imaging system, the computing device being configured to control movement of the actuation device relative to the railcar by performing absolute value difference calculations between adjacent images of the second plurality of images and comparing a computed position of the actuation device to a position of the capstan as indicated by the model, and control movement of the power gate opener into engagement with the capstan to move the door into the opened position and discharge the material. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the second laser is mounted at an acute angle relative to a drive shaft of the power gate opener. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the first laser is a scanning laser configured to obtain a plurality of distance measurements along a vertical path at fixed intervals of time. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the railcar includes a plurality of doors and a corresponding plurality of capstans and the computing device is configured to control movement of the power gate opener to move each of the plurality of capstans to open each of the plurality of doors. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the absolute value calculation includes comparing a color of an area in a field of view corresponding to one data set to a color of a corresponding area in a field of view of another data set and identifying overlapping areas. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein overlapping areas are identified as areas having substantially similar colors. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein movement of areas is indicated by non-overlapping areas. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein non-overlapping areas are identified as high contrast areas. 29. The system of claim 21, wherein the computing device controls movement of the power gate opener to accommodate movement of the capstan during movement of the door into the opened position. 30. The system of claim 21, wherein the railcar remains in motion while the power gate opener engages the capstan to move the door into the opened position. 31. A system for unloading a railcar having a door that is movable between a closed position and an opened position wherein material in the railcar is discharged through a discharge opening, the door being movable by an actuation shaft having a capstan with an engagement surface, the system including: an imaging system including a first camera and a first laser, the first camera obtaining first images of portions of the railcar and the first laser scanning portions of the railcar to obtain a first plurality of distance measurements, the imaging system being configured to identify the engagement surface of the capstan based on the first plurality of distance measurements, perform an image analysis of a plurality of the first images generated at predetermined intervals as the railcar moves past the imaging system to determine motion parameters of the railcar, the image analysis including an absolute value difference calculation between adjacent first images, and generate a model of the railcar using the motion parameters to determine the position of the capstan relative to the railcar when the capstan was identified, an actuation device including a frame mounted for movement along a rail, an encoder generating movement data of the actuation device along the rail, a power gate opener movably mounted to the frame and having a drive surface for engaging the capstan engagement surface, and a second laser scanning portions of the railcar to obtain a second plurality of distance measurements, and a computing device configured to receive information from the model and movement information from the encoder and use the information and the movement information to control movement of the actuation device along the rail toward the capstan, identify the capstan after the railcar stops moving by comparing the second plurality of distance measurements to known features of the capstan, control movement the drive surface of the power gate opener into engagement with the capstan engagement surface, and control the drive surface to rotate the capstan, thereby moving the door to the opened position to discharge material through the discharge opening of the gate assembly. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the first laser is a scanning laser configured to obtain a plurality of distance measurements along a vertical path at fixed intervals of time. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein the actuation device further includes an articulated robot arm supporting the drive surface. 34. The system of claim 31, wherein the railcar includes a plurality of doors and a corresponding plurality of capstans and the computing device is configured to control movement of the power gate opener to move each of the plurality of capstans to open each of the plurality of doors. 35. The system of claim 31, wherein the imaging system identifies the capstan by identifying distance measurements in the first plurality of distance measurements that appear unconnected to surrounding structure. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the imaging system identifies the orientation of the capstan by rotating a shape matrix representative of the shape of a drive recess of the capstan and performing a best fit analysis of the first plurality of distance measurements and the shape matrix. 37. The system of claim 31, wherein the absolute value difference calculation includes comparing a color of an area in one image to a color of a corresponding area in another image and identifying overlapping areas. 38. The system of claim 31, wherein the computing device is supported by the actuation device. 39. A car door opener for unloading a railcar having a door that is movable between a closed position and an opened position wherein material in the railcar is discharged through a discharge opening, the door being movable by an actuation shaft having a capstan with an engagement surface, the car door opener including: a frame mounted for movement along a rail, an encoder generating movement data of the actuation device along the rail, a power gate opener movably mounted to the frame and having a drive surface for engaging the capstan engagement surface, a camera obtaining images of portions of the railcar; a laser scanning portions of the railcar to obtain a plurality of distance measurements, and a computing device configured to perform an image analysis of a plurality of the images generated at predetermined intervals to generate motion information about the railcar, the image analysis including an absolute value difference calculation between adjacent first images, use the motion information to control movement of the car door opener along the rail, identify the capstan by comparing the plurality of distance measurements to known features of the capstan, control movement the drive surface of the power gate opener into engagement with the capstan engagement surface, and control the drive surface to rotate the capstan, thereby moving the door to the opened position to discharge material through the discharge opening of the gate assembly. 