A method and apparatus for cleaning layers of solar cell substrates is disclosed. The substrate is exposed to a reactive gas that may comprise neutral radicals comprising nitrogen and fluorine, or that may comprise anhydrous HF and water, alcohol, or a mixture of water and alcohol. The reactive gas may further comprise a carrier gas. The reactive gas etches the solar cell substrate surface, removing oxygen and other impurities. When exposed to the neutral radicals, the substrate grows a thin film containing ammonium hexafluorosilicate, which is subsequently removed by heat treatment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a solar cell substrate having a native oxide layer, comprising: disposing the solar cell substrate in a processing chamber having walls; exposing the native oxide layer to a reactive fluorine containing gas mixture while maintaining a temperature of the substrate below a temperature of the walls; removing the native oxide layer; and depositing hydrogen, fluorine, or both on the substrate surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture is an etchant gas mixture. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture comprises hydrogen, and the temperature of the substrate is maintained at a temperature of about 15.degree. C. to about 50.degree. C. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture further comprises nitrogen. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture comprises HF. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture comprises active species. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the active species comprise radicals. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture further comprises a carrier gas. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture is activated prior to exposing the native oxide layer to the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture, and removing the native oxide layer comprises forming a thin film from the native oxide layer and the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein removing the native oxide layer further comprises heating the thin film. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas comprises nitrogen trifluoride (NF.sub.3). 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising exposing the native oxide layer to ammonia (NH.sub.3) while maintaining a temperature of the substrate below a temperature of the walls. 13. A method of forming a photovoltaic device, comprising: forming a first silicon containing layer on a substrate; performing a dry cleaning process that removes impurities from a surface of the first silicon containing layer and deposits fluorine or hydrogen or both on the first silicon containing layer; wherein the dry cleaning process comprises exposing the surface of the first silicon containing layer to a reactive fluorine containing gas mixture, the reactive fluorine containing gas mixture comprises active species, the active species form a thin film on the first silicon containing layer that is removed by an anneal process, and the active species etch the first silicon containing layer while forming the thin film; and then forming a second silicon containing layer on the first silicon containing layer. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the dry cleaning process comprises a deposition process, an etching process, and an anneal process. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the first silicon containing layer is doped with a p-type or an n-type dopant. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the second silicon containing layer is doped with a p-type or an n-type dopant of opposite type from the first silicon containing layer. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the reactive fluorine containing gas comprises nitrogen trifluoride (NF.sub.3). 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising exposing the surface of the first silicon containing layer to ammonia (NH.sub.3). 