A method for gesture recognition in an optical system using a touchless slider is shown. The touchless slider has first and second reference points positioned along an axis in an optical system. The method includes obtaining a plurality of first and second reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from an object relative to the first and second reference points, respectively, wherein each first and second reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time. The plurality of first and second reflectance values are compared to identify a plurality of ratio values between the first and second reflectance values, wherein each of the plurality of ratio values corresponds to one of the points in time. At least one of a position and a direction of movement of the object relative to the first and second reference points is determined based on the identified plurality of ratio values.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for gesture recognition in an optical system using a touchless slider having first and second reference points positioned along an axis, the method comprising: obtaining a plurality of first reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from an object relative to the first reference point, wherein each first reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time and wherein the object does not contact the first reference point; obtaining a plurality of second reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from the object relative to the second reference point, wherein each second reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time and wherein the object does not contact the second reference point; comparing the plurality of first and second reflectance values to identify a plurality of ratio values between the first reflectance values and the second reflectance values, wherein each of the plurality of ratio values corresponds to one of the points in time; and determining at least one of a position and a direction of movement of the object relative to the first and second reference points based on the identified plurality of ratio values. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the direction of movement is limited to movement along the axis. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein obtaining the plurality of first reflectance values includes amplitude measurements taken when the object is on either side of the first reference point. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: identifying a plurality of consecutive first reflectance values that are substantially identical; identifying a plurality of consecutive second reflectance values that are substantially identical; and determining that the motion of the object has paused based on the substantially identical reflectance values. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising: identifying a first peak value from a plurality of consecutive first reflectance values; identifying a second peak value from a plurality of consecutive second reflectance values, wherein the first and second peak values occur simultaneously; and detecting that the object has moved perpendicularly relative to the axis based on the simultaneously occurring first and second peak values. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising defining the determined position as a user defined setting of the touchless slider when the perpendicular movement is detected. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing feedback indicating at least one of the position and the direction of movement of the object. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein providing the feedback includes actuating a plurality of visible light emitting diodes in response to the movement of the object relative to the first and second reference points. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second reference points are light emitting diodes. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second reference points are optical receivers. 11. A method for gesture recognition in an optical system using a touchless slider having first and second reference points positioned on an axis, the method comprising: identifying movement of an object relative to the first reference point along the axis, wherein the movement is identified based on a plurality of first amplitude values each representing a distance of the object relative to the first reference point at a given point in time, wherein the distance is greater than zero; identifying movement of the object relative to the second reference point along the axis, wherein the movement is identified based on a plurality of second amplitude values each representing a distance of the object relative to the second reference point at a given point in time, wherein the distance is greater than zero; comparing the plurality of first and second amplitude values at matching points in time to identify movement of the object in a first direction substantially parallel to the axis; and detecting a simultaneous peak in the plurality of first and second amplitude values to identify movement of the object in a second direction substantially perpendicular to the axis. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising obtaining the plurality of first and second amplitude values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from the object relative to the first and second reference points, respectively. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the movement of the object in the second direction is interpreted by the optical system as a button push. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the button push is interpreted as setting a position of the object along the axis relative to the first and second reference points at a position occupied by the object when the button push occurred. 15. The method of claim 11 further comprising: identifying a plurality of the first amplitude values that are substantially identical for a consecutive number of points in time; identifying a plurality of second amplitude values that are substantially identical for the consecutive number of points in time; and determining that the movement of the object has paused for a period of time defined by the consecutive number of points in time based on the substantially identical first and second amplitude values. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising identifying the pause as a set point. 17. The method of claim 11 further comprising providing user detectable feedback of the identified movement in at least one of the first and second directions. 18. A touchless slider comprising: first and second reference points positioned along an axis; means for obtaining a plurality of first reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from an object relative to the first reference point, wherein each first reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time; means for obtaining a plurality of second reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from the object relative to the second reference point, wherein each second reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time; means for comparing the plurality of first and second reflectance values to identify a plurality of ratio values between the first reflectance values and the second reflectance values, wherein each of the plurality of ratio values corresponds to one of the points in time; and means for determining at least one of a position and a direction of movement of the object relative to the first and second reference points based on the identified plurality of ratio values. 19. The touchless slider of claim 18 further comprising: means for identifying a plurality of consecutive first reflectance values that are substantially identical in amplitude for a period of time; means for identifying a plurality of consecutive second reflectance values that are substantially identical in amplitude for the period of time; and means for determining that the motion of the object has paused based on the substantially identical amplitudes of the reflectance values for the period of time. 20. The touchless slider of claim 18 further comprising: means for identifying a first peak value from a plurality of consecutive first reflectance values; means for identifying a second peak value from a plurality of consecutive second reflectance values, wherein the first and second peak values occur simultaneously; and means for detecting that the object has moved perpendicularly relative to the axis based on the simultaneously occurring first and second peak values. 21. A method for gesture recognition in an optical system using a touchless slider having first, second, and third reference points positioned around a fixed location, the method comprising: obtaining a plurality of first reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from an object relative to the first reference point while the object is a variable distance that is greater than zero from the first reference point, wherein each first reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time; obtaining a plurality of second reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from the object relative to the second reference point while the object is a variable distance that is greater than zero from the second reference point, wherein each second reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time; obtaining a plurality of third reflectance values by measuring an amplitude of light reflected from the object relative to the third reference point while the object is a variable distance that is greater than zero from the third reference point, wherein each third reflectance value corresponds to a different point in time; comparing the plurality of first, second, and third reflectance values to identify a plurality of ratio values between the first, second, and third reflectance values, wherein each of the plurality of ratio values corresponds to one of the points in time; and determining at least one of a position and a direction of movement of the object relative to the first, second, and third reference points based on the identified plurality of ratio values. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the direction of movement is one of clockwise or counterclockwise around the fixed location. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the direction of movement includes a spiral motion relative to the fixed location, wherein the spiral motion alters a distance between the first, second, and third reference points and the fixed location. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein the direction of movement is along a single axis. 25. The method of claim 21 wherein at least two of the first, second, and third reference points are equidistant from the fixed location. 