Described is an affinity microcolumn comprising a high surface area material, which has high flow properties and a low dead volume, contained within a housing and having affinity reagents bound to the surface of the high surface area material that are either activated or activatable. The affinity reagents bound to the surface of the affinity microcolumn further comprise affinity receptors for the integration into high throughput analysis of biomolecules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An affinity microcolumn comprising a porous molecular trap having a high surface area material comprising silica, which has high flow properties and a low dead volume, contained within a housing and affinity reagents bound to the surface of the high surface area material, wherein the affinity reagents are either activated or activatable and the high surface area is formed by at least one of chemical etching and electro etching. 2. The affinity microcolumn of claim 1 wherein the porous molecular trap is formed by molding. 3. The affinity microcolumn of claim 1 wherein the affinity reagents that are bound to the surface of the high surface area material further comprise affinity receptors bound to the affinity reagents. 4. The affinity microcolumn of claim 3 further comprising a tethering molecule that is activated or activatible and binds the affinity receptors to the affinity reagents. 5. The affinity microcolumn of claim 3 further comprising an amplification media that is activated or activatible and is interposed between the affinity reagents and the affinity receptors, where the amplification media allows a high density of affinity receptors to be bound to the affinity reagents than in the absence of the amplification media. 6. The affinity microcolumn of claim 5 wherein the amplification media comprises at least one of a biological polymer, a non-biological organic polymer, and an inorganic polymer. 7. The affinity microcolumn of claim 3 further comprising an amplification media interposed between the affinity reagents and the affinity receptors, where the amplification media allows better access by an analyte to the affinity receptors than in the absence of the amplification media. 8. The affinity microcolumn of claim 7 wherein the amplification media comprises at least one of a biological polymer, a non-biological organic polymer, and an inorganic polymer. 9. The affinity microcolumn of claim 1 wherein the housing is a micropipette. 10. The affinity microcolumn of claim 1 wherein the housing is a manifold having more than one microchannel, the porous molecular trap fitting into at least one of the microchannels. 11. The affinity microcolumn of claim 9 wherein the housing further comprises at least one projection that supports the porous molecular trap. 12. The affinity microcolumn of claim 9 wherein the housing further comprises at least one projection in at least one of the microchannels, the projection supporting the porous molecular trap. 