Hypothermia significantly improves the rate of recovery of function following abdominal surgery--particularly radical prostatectomy. Prior to commencing surgery the tissues at and surrounding the site of the surgery are cooled by means of an endorectal cooling balloon inserted into the patient's rectum. The uninflated balloon is inserted and then inflated with cooling fluid which fluid is constantly circulated in and out to lower the temperature. Improved hypothermia can be achieved by bathing internal tissue with chilled water or buffer. Limitation of surgically induced damage can be demonstrated by the more rapid regain of continence in radical prostatectomy patients treated with hypothermia during surgery.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for enhancing recovery of biological function following surgery of the pelvis comprising the steps of: introducing a cooling balloon catheter into the rectum of a patient prior to surgery of the pelvis; inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall and fills the rectal lumen; cooling the balloon catheter by introducing cooling fluid therein thus lowering the temperature of the balloon catheter and tissue in contact with the balloon catheter; and performing the surgery of the pelvis whereby hypothermia induced by the cooling balloon catheter enhances recovery of biological function wherein the biological function is urinary continence or sexual potency. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of continuing cooling with the balloon catheter after the surgery of the pelvis is completed. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the surgery of the pelvis is a surgical prostatectomy selected from the group consisting of open radical prostatectomy, robot assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy, laparoscopic radical prostatectomy and perineal prostatectomy. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a step of applying cooled aqueous liquid intracorporeally at the site of surgery. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a step of continuing cooling the balloon catheter when the patient is placed in the recovery room. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of cooling begins as soon as the patient is intubated prior to initiation of surgery. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the surgery of the pelvis is selected from group consisting of extravesical ureteral reimplantation, radical cystectomy and colorectal surgery. 8. A method for enhancing recovery of biological function following gynecological surgery of the pelvis comprising the steps of: introducing a cooling balloon catheter into the rectum of a patient prior to gynecological surgery; inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall and fills the rectal lumen; cooling the balloon catheter by introducing cooling fluid therein thus lowering the temperature of the balloon catheter and tissue in contact with the balloon catheter; and performing the gynecological surgery whereby hypothermia induced by the cooling balloon catheter enhances recovery of biological function wherein the biological function is urinary continence. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8 further including the steps of introducing a cooling balloon catheter into the vagina of a patient prior to gynecological surgery, inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the vaginal wall filling the vaginal lumen and circulating cooling fluid through the cooling balloon catheter thereby cooling the vagina and adjacent tissues. 10. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the gynecologic surgery is selected from the group consisting of radical hysterectomy, pelvic organ prolapse repair, bladder surgery, open sacrocolpopexy, laparoscopic sacrocolpopexy and robot-assisted sacrocolpopexy. 11. A system for improving recovery urinary continence and/or sexual potency following surgery of the prostate comprising: a cooling balloon catheter insertable into the rectum of a patient; means for inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall extending from the membranous urethra to the seminal vesicles; and means for cooling the balloon catheter thereby inducing hypothermia in the prostate and surrounding tissues, whereby recovery or urinary continence or sexual potency is improved. 12. The system of claim 11 further comprising means for applying cooled aqueous liquid intracorporeally at the site of surgery. 13. A method for enhancing recovery of biological function following prostate surgery comprising the steps of: introducing a cooling balloon catheter into the rectum of a patient prior to prostate surgery; inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall extending from about the membranous urethra to about the seminal vesicles; cooling the balloon catheter by introducing cooling fluid therein thus lowering the temperature of the balloon catheter and tissue in contact with the balloon catheter; and performing the surgery of the prostate whereby hypothermia induced by the cooling balloon catheter enhances recovery of biological function wherein the biological function is urinary continence or sexual potency. 14. The method as claimed in claim 13 further comprising a step of applying cooled aqueous liquid intracorporeally at the site of prostate surgery. 15. A method for enhancing recovery of biological function following a surgery of the pelvis comprising the steps of: introducing a cooling balloon catheter into the rectum of a patient prior to a surgery of the pelvis; inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall and fills the rectal lumen; cooling the balloon catheter by introducing cooling fluid therein thus lowering the temperature of the balloon catheter and tissue in contact with the balloon catheter; applying cooled aqueous liquid intracorporeally at the site of the surgery; and performing the surgery of the pelvis whereby hypothermia induced by the cooling balloon catheter reduces tissue damage and enhances recovery of biological function wherein the biological function is urinary continence or sexual potency. 16. A system for improving recovery urinary continence and/or sexual potency following a surgery of the prostate comprising: a cooling balloon catheter insertable into the rectum of a patient; means for inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall extending from the membranous urethra to the seminal vesicles; means for cooling the balloon catheter thereby inducing hypothermia in the prostate and surrounding tissues; and means for applying cooled aqueous liquid intracorporeally at the site of the surgery. 17. A method for enhancing recovery of biological function following a prostate surgery comprising the steps of: introducing a cooling balloon catheter into the rectum of a patient prior to a prostate surgery; inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall extending from about the membranous urethra to about the seminal vesicles; cooling the balloon catheter by introducing cooling fluid therein thus lowering the temperature of the balloon catheter and tissue in contact with the balloon catheter; applying cooled aqueous liquid intracorporeally; and performing the surgery of the prostate whereby hypothermia induced by the cooling balloon catheter reduces tissue damage and enhances recovery of biological function wherein the biological function is urinary continence or sexual potency. 18. A method for enhancing recovery of biological function following gynecological surgery of the pelvis comprising the steps of: introducing a cooling balloon catheter into the rectum of a patient prior to gynecological surgery; inflating the cooling balloon catheter so that the balloon catheter engages the rectal wall and fills the rectal lumen; cooling the balloon catheter by introducing cooling fluid therein thus lowering the temperature of the balloon catheter and tissue in contact with the balloon catheter; introducing a second cooling balloon catheter into the vagina of a patient; inflating the second cooling balloon catheter so that the second balloon catheter engages the vaginal wall filling the vaginal lumen; circulating cooling fluid through the second cooling balloon catheter thereby cooling the vagina and adjacent tissues; and performing the gynecological surgery whereby hypothermia induced by the cooling balloon catheter reduces tissue damage and enhances recovery of biological function wherein the biological function is urinary continence. 