The present invention relates to a ungrounded, reconfigurable, parallel mechanism based, force feedback exoskeleton device for the human ankle. The primary use for the device is aimed as a balance/proprioception trainer, while the exeskeleton device can also be employed to accommodate range of motion (RoM)/strengthening exercises. This device is also used for metatarsophalangeal joint exercises.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ungrounded, wearable and reconfigurable ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device comprising; a base platform which interfaces with a leg of an operator, a moving platform which interfaces with a foot of the operator, the moving platform positioned beneath the base platform, a connecting member that connects the base platform and the moving platform, a reconfigurable joint member, having a locking mechanism engaging the joint member in a locked position or an unlocked position to have more than one degree of freedom, and which connects the connecting member to the base platform; wherein in an unlocked position the reconfigurable joint member can freely rotate around two axes wherein a first axis is tangential to the base platform while a second axis is perpendicular to the base platform. 2. An ungrounded ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device according to claim 1 characterized in that the reconfigurable joint member functions as a universal joint rotating about desired said axes when in the unlocked position. 3. An ungrounded ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device according to claim 1 characterized in that when the reconfigurable joint member is in the locked position, the reconfigurable joint member is constrained to function as a revolute joint that is free to rotate only around the first axis. 4. An ungrounded, wearable and reconfigurable ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device comprising; a base platform which interfaces with a leg of an operator, a moving platform which interfaces with a foot of the operator, the moving platform positioned beneath the base platform, a connecting member that connects the base platform and the moving platform, a reconfigurable joint member, having a locking mechanism engaging the joint member in a locked position or an unlocked position to have more than one degree of freedom, and which connects the connecting member to the base platform; characterized in that the reconfigurable joint member allows a 3UPS mechanism in which the device is used as a RoM/strengthening exercise device to be reconfigured into a 3RPS mechanism in which the device is used as a balance/proprioception exercise device. 5. An ungrounded ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device according to claim 4 characterized in that when the device is used as a 3UPS mechanism, the reconfigurable joint member is in the unlocked position and behaves as a universal joint and the leg of the operator behaves as a center link of the device connecting the base platform and the moving platform. 6. An ungrounded ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device according to claim 4 characterized in that when the device is used as a 3RPS mechanism the reconfigurable joint member is in the locked position, and behaves as a revolute joint and its axes of rotation are oriented along the tangents of the base platform. 7. An ungrounded, wearable and reconfigurable ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device comprising; a base platform which interfaces with a leg of an operator, a moving platform which interfaces with a foot of the operator, the moving platform positioned beneath the base platform, a connecting member that connects the base platform and the moving platform, a reconfigurable joint member, having a locking mechanism engaging the joint member in a locked position or an unlocked position to have more than one degree of freedom, and which connects the connecting member to the base platform; characterized in that the connecting member comprises a drive unit and a moving element. 8. An ungrounded ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device according to claim 7, further comprising at least two sensors on the joint member, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors measures a length of the connecting member, and another sensor of the at least two sensors measures an axial rotation amount of the joint member; and a control unit that controls and records a plurality of movements of the moving element and processes data measured by the sensors. 9. An ungrounded ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device according to claim 8, characterized in that the control unit switches amongst a passive exercise mode where the device forces an ankle of the operator to move; an active exercise mode; an assistive exercise mode where the device assists a motion of the ankle; and a resistive exercise mode where the device applies resistance to the motion of the ankle. 10. An ungrounded, wearable and reconfigurable ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device comprising; a base platform which interfaces with a leg of an operator, a moving platform which interfaces with a foot of the operator, the moving platform positioned beneath the base platform, a connecting member that connects the base platform and the moving platform, a reconfigurable joint member, having a locking mechanism engaging the joint member in a locked position or an unlocked position to have more than one degree of freedom, and which connects the connecting member to the base platform; and a robust position controller measuring and observing external torques and forces, and resisting the external torques and forces by applying opposite torques and forces. 11. An ungrounded ankle therapy and measurement exoskeleton device according to claim 8 characterized in that the control unit and the at least two sensors of the device measures joint configuration, speed of movement, trajectory, trajectory error, smoothness of movement, range of motion, coordination and synergies, maximum joint torques at any configuration, joint torques while tracing any trajectory, tone and impedance of an ankle. 