A method for a minimally invasive surgical system is disclosed including capturing camera images of a surgical site; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) including a first colored border portion in a first side and a second colored border in a second side opposite the first side; and overlaying the GUI onto the captured camera images of the surgical site for display on a display device of a surgeon console. The GUI provides information to a user regarding the first electrosurgical tool and the second tool in the surgical site that is concurrently displayed by the captured camera images. The first colored border portion in the GUI indicates that the first electrosurgical tool is controlled by a first master grip of the surgeon console and the second colored border portion indicates the tool type of the second tool controlled by a second master grip of the surgeon console.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for a minimally invasive surgical system, the method comprising: capturing one or more camera images of a surgical site; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) including a first border portion in a first side and a second border portion in a second side opposite the first side, the first border portion indicating a first electrosurgical tool controlled by a first master grip of a surgeon console and the second border portion indicating a tool type of a second tool controlled by a second master grip of the surgeon console; and overlaying the GUI onto the one or more captured camera images of the surgical site for display on at least one display device of the surgeon console, the GUI to provide information to a user regarding the first electrosurgical tool and the second tool in the surgical site while the surgical site is concurrently displayed by the one or more captured camera images. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an activated energy indicator in response to a user interface input device, the activated energy indicator to indicate energy is ready to be supplied to the first electrosurgical tool. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the activated energy indicator is an activated energy strip bar covering over a portion of the first border portion in response to a user interface input device, the activated energy strip bar having a different color than the first border portion. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an energy handedness assignment icon in the first border portion or the second border portion to indicate handedness and active or inactive energy control of the first electrosurgical tool or the second tool, respectively. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an iconic pedal map near a lower center portion between the first border portion and the second border portion to indicate pedal control functions of one or more pedals of the surgeon console. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an iconic master grip map near the iconic pedal map between the first border portion and the second border portion to indicate handedness and active or inactive master grip control. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating a first text tab icon in the first border portion to indicate tool type of the first tool, a second text tab icon in the second border portion to indicate tool type of the second tool, and a third text tab icon in the first border portion to indicate tool type of a third tool. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating a first tool number icon in the first border portion to indicate a first number associated with the first tool, a second tool number icon in the second border portion to indicate a second number associated with the second tool, and a third tool number icon in the first border portion to indicate a first number associated with the third tool. 9. A method for a minimally invasive surgical system, the method comprising: capturing one or more camera images of a surgical site; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) including a first colored border portion in a first side and a second colored border portion in a second side opposite the first side, the first colored border portion indicating a first electrosurgical tool controlled by a first master grip of a surgeon console and the second colored border portion indicating a tool type of a second tool controlled by a second master grip of the surgeon console; and overlaying the GUI onto the one or more captured camera images of the surgical site for display on at least one display device of the surgeon console, the GUI to provide information to a user regarding the first electrosurgical tool and the second tool in the surgical site while the surgical site is concurrently displayed by the one or more captured camera images, wherein the second tool is not an electrosurgical tool, and a first color of the first colored border portion differs from a second color of the second colored border portion to distinguish between electrosurgical tools and non- electrosurgical tools controlled by the first and second master grips of the surgeon console. 10. A method for a minimally invasive surgical system, the method comprising: capturing one or more camera images of a surgical site; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) including a first colored border portion in a first side and a second colored border portion in a second side opposite the first side, the first colored border portion indicating a first electrosurgical tool controlled by a first master grip of a surgeon console and the second colored border portion indicating a tool type of a second tool controlled by a second master grip of the surgeon console; and overlaying the GUI onto the one or more captured camera images of the surgical site for display on at least one display device of the surgeon console, the GUI to provide information to a user regarding the first electrosurgical tool and the second tool in the surgical site while the surgical site is concurrently displayed by the one or more captured camera images, wherein the second tool is an electrosurgical tool, and a first color of the first colored border portion and a second color of the second colored border portion are similar to indicate that electrosurgical tools are controlled by the first and second master grips of the surgeon console. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating a camera orientation icon near upper center between the first and second border portions, the camera orientation icon to indicate orientation of an endoscopic camera with respect to a reference. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the first border portion in the first side is a first color and the second border portion in the second side is a second color differing from the first color. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an activated energy indicator in response to a user interface input device, the activated energy indicator to indicate energy is ready to be supplied to the first electrosurgical tool. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the activated energy indicator is an activated energy strip bar covering over a portion of the first colored border portion in response to a user interface input device, the activated energy strip bar having a different color than the first colored border portion. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an energy handedness assignment icon in the first colored border portion or the second colored border portion to indicate handedness and active or inactive energy control of the first electrosurgical tool or the second tool, respectively. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an iconic pedal map near a lower center portion between the first colored border portion and the second colored border portion to indicate pedal control functions of one or more pedals of the surgeon console. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an iconic master grip map near the iconic pedal map between the first colored border portion and the second colored border portion to indicate handedness and active or inactive master grip control. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an activated energy indicator in response to a user interface input device, the activated energy indicator to indicate energy is ready to be supplied to the first electrosurgical tool. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the activated energy indicator is an activated energy strip bar covering over a portion of the first colored border portion in response to a user interface input device, the activated energy strip bar having a different color than the first colored border portion. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an energy handedness assignment icon in the first colored border portion or the second colored border portion to indicate handedness and active or inactive energy control of the first electrosurgical tool or the second tool, respectively. 21. The method of claim 10, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an iconic pedal map near a lower center portion between the first colored border portion and the second colored border portion to indicate pedal control functions of one or more pedals of the surgeon console. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the generating of the GUI further includes generating an iconic master grip map near the iconic pedal map between the first colored border portion and the second colored border portion to indicate handedness and active or inactive master grip control. 