An Active Ankle Foot Orthosis (AAFO) is provided where the impedance of an orthotic joint is modulated throughout the walking cycle to treat ankle foot gait pathology, such as drop foot gait. During controlled plantar flexion, a biomimetic torsional spring control is applied where orthotic joint stiffness is actively adjusted to minimize forefoot collisions with the ground. Throughout late stance, joint impedance is minimized so as not to impede powered plantar flexion movements, and during the swing phase, a torsional spring-damper (PD) control lifts the foot to provide toe clearance. To assess the clinical effects of variable-impedance control, kinetic and kinematic gait data were collected on two drop foot participants wearing the AAFO. It has been found that actively adjusting joint impedance reduces the occurrence of slap foot, allows greater powered plantar flexion, and provides for less kinematic difference during swing when compared to normals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous motorized permanent assistance leg device comprising: an ankle angle sensor; a controller using information from the sensor to determine a phase of gait; and a motorized actuator controlled by the controller to continually modulate a characteristic of the device based on the phase of gait. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises a state machine comprising three control states. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the control states comprise a first half of ground contact, a second half of ground contact, and a swing phase. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the controller comprises a state machine including a safe state. 5. The device of claim 1 further comprising at least one ground reaction force sensor. 6. The device of claim 1 further comprising a foot switch. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the foot switch is disposed in a forefoot region. 8. The device of claim 6, wherein the foot switch is disposed in a heel region. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to use foot contact information corresponding to time a foot remains in contact with ground, wherein the foot contact information is usable to estimate forward speed. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises a series elastic actuator. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the series elastic actuator comprises a motor in series with a spring. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the motor is configured to control compression of the spring. 13. The device of claim 10, wherein the series elastic actuator comprises a virtual torsion mechanical element about a joint. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the joint comprises an ankle joint. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is adjusted to model ankle biomechanics. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the ankle biomechanics are selected from the group consisting of stiffness, damping, zero torque, zero impedance, a spring model, a combination spring and damper model, a non-linear spring model, ankle work, plantar flexion ankle rotation, and dorsiflexion ankle rotation. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein the combination spring and damper model is applied with gains that vary with gait speed. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein the gains vary in a swing phase. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein the device characteristic is selected from the group consisting of impedance, torque, and position. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the actuator adjusts impedance in response to step-to-step gait variations. 21. The device of claim 19, wherein the actuator adjusts impedance with gait speed to lift a toe during a swing phase. 22. The device of claim 21, wherein the toe is lifted to provide toe clearance to reduce toe drag during the swing phase. 23. The device of claim 19, wherein the actuator adjusts impedance with gait speed to control ankle movement during controlled plantar flexion. 24. The device of claim 23, wherein the ankle movement is controlled to reduce foot slap during a stance phase. 25. The device of claim 1, wherein the device comprises an ankle orthosis comprising an ankle joint and the controller is adapted to control plantar flexion and dorsiflexion of ankle joint position during at least a stance phase. 26. The device of claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to control the motorized actuator to modulate a characteristic of the device during a complete gait cycle. 27. An autonomous motorized permanent assistance leg device comprising: a sensor; a controller using information from the sensor to determine a phase of gait; a motorized actuator; and a controller adapted to employ a stance phase positive force feedback in controlling the actuator. 28. The device of claim 27, wherein the positive force feedback control is adapted to reject system energy disturbances in controlling the actuator. 29. The device of claim 27, wherein the controller is further adapted to control at least one of impedance and joint equilibrium. 30. The device of claim 29, wherein the controller controls the device at least in part as a function of gait speed. 