A substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device for a joint is provided. The prosthetic device includes an outer surface configured to operatively engage at least one of a first bone of the joint and a component and an inner surface configured to connect to a second bone of the joint. The inner surface is rotationally asymmetric to minimize intrusion on a vascular region of the second bone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device for a joint, comprising: an outer surface configured to operatively engage at least one of a first bone of the joint and a component; and an inner surface configured to engage a second bone of the joint, wherein the inner surface is rotationally asymmetric such that an arc along the inner surface in a plane perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the inner surface has a non-constant radius of curvature, and wherein the prosthetic device is a femoral head cup. 2. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 1, wherein the inner surface includes a bone-engaging first concave surface and a bone-engaging second concave surface, and a shape of the first concave surface is different from a shape of the second concave surface. 3. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 1, wherein a cross-section of the inner surface has a substantially elliptical shape. 4. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 1, wherein a cross-section of the inner surface includes an elliptical arc. 5. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 4, wherein the cross-section of the inner surface includes a circular arc. 6. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 1, wherein the inner surface includes a bone-engaging first concave surface and a bone-engaging second concave surface, and a wall thickness at the first concave surface is less than a wall thickness at the second concave surface. 7. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 1, wherein a wall thickness of the prosthetic device is non-constant. 8. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 1, wherein the inner surface includes a bone-engaging first concave surface and a bone-engaging second concave surface, and the first concave surface is located on a portion of the inner surface that will abut a vascular region of the second bone. 9. A substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device for a joint, comprising: an outer surface configured to operatively engage at least one of a first bone of the joint and a component; and an inner surface configured to engage a second bone of the joint, wherein the inner surface is rotationally asymmetric such that an arc along the inner surface in a plane perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the inner surface has a non-constant radius of curvature, wherein the inner surface includes a bone-engaging first concave surface and a bone-engaging second concave surface, and a shape of the first concave surface is different from a shape of the second concave surface, and wherein the prosthetic device is a femoral head cup. 10. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 9, wherein the first concave surface is located on a portion of the inner surface that will abut a vascular region of the second bone. 11. A substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device for a joint, comprising: an outer surface configured to operatively engage at least one of a first bone of the joint and a component; and an inner surface configured to engage a second bone of the joint, wherein the inner surface is rotationally asymmetric such that an arc along the inner surface in a plane perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the inner surface has a non-constant radius of curvature, wherein the inner surface includes a bone-engaging first concave surface and a bone-engaging second concave surface, and a shape of the first concave surface is different from a shape of the second concave surface, wherein a wall thickness at the first concave surface is less than a wall thickness at the second concave surface, and wherein the prosthetic device is a femoral head cup. 12. The substantially cup-shaped prosthetic device of claim 11, wherein the first concave surface is located on a portion of the inner surface that will abut a vascular region of the second bone. 