The present disclosure relates to a prostatic imaging system including steps of recording and processing images acquired by the ultrasonographic head of a rectal probe equipped with an active puncture guide, characterized in that it includes steps of processing at least a part of the images acquired by the probe for calculating transformations to a "reference image" repository relative to the initial position of the prostate, at least a part of the images acquired during the successive punctures including the location of the various positions of the needle being recorded with a view to visualising representations thereof on a single image including at least a part of the prostate. The present disclosure also relates to a system for the prostatic imaging implementing said prostatic imaging method.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A prostatic imaging method comprising recording and processing images acquired by an ultrasonographic head of a rectal probe equipped with an active puncture guide, processing at least a part of the images acquired by the probe for calculating transformations to a "reference image" repository relative to the initial position of a prostate, with at least a part of the images acquired during successive punctures including a location of various positions of a needle being recorded with a view to visualising representations thereof on a single image including at least a part of the prostate. 2. An imaging method according to the preceding claim, wherein the position of the sampling needle is visualised in the "reference image" repository or "tracking image" repository after the puncture, superimposed on an image of at least a part of the prostate showing the various positions of prior samplings. 3. An imaging method according to claim 1, wherein the position of the sampling needle is visualised in real time in the "reference image" repository or "tracking image" repository, being superimposed on an image of at least a part of the prostate showing the various positions of prior samplings. 4. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising tumoral distribution is visualised in the "reference image" repository after merging of a spatial distribution of the marked punctures with results from anatomopathologic analysis. 5. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising resetting a new prostatic image marked upon each new sampling. 6. An imaging system according to claim 1, further comprising a refreshing frequency of the images acquired by the ultrasonographic probe being at least 3 images per second. 7. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising using the ultrasonographic probe to give a three-dimensional image. 8. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising using the ultrasonographic probe to give a "2.5-dimensional" type image. 9. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising chronological marking with a serial number implementing means for the univocal labelling of each sampling area. 10. An imaging method according to claim 9, wherein the univocal labelling means are manually generated with the needle being in position. 11. An imaging method according to claim 9, wherein the univocal labelling means are generated by an automatic triggering of the acquisition of data through the capture of a sound, light, tactile or magnetic signal at the exact moment of biopsy sampling. 12. An imaging method according to claim 1, wherein the step of processing the acquired images further implements a kinematic model derived from anatomic constraints specific to a transrectal puncture of the prostate making it possible to identify probable positions of the probe during an operation. 13. An imaging system according to claim 1, wherein the step of processing the acquired images further implements the process of pre-calculating the probable positions of the probe during a biopsy and the images corresponding to the positions of the probe pre-calculated from the reference image. 14. An imaging method according to claim 1, wherein the step of processing the acquired images further implements an image resetting algorithm based on the local optimisation of a measure of the similarity. 15. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising using software for successively controlling the entering of a patient's information, a display of the information relative to a preliminary sequence of acquisition of the reference image, functionalities relating to the acquisition of the ultrasonographic images intended for the calculation of the reference image and when the quality of the reference image is validated by the operator or by an automatic processing, biopsies sampling sequence. 16. An imaging method according to claim 1, wherein the processing of the images consists of a non-linear transformation, taking into account a deformation of the prostate between a condition at rest and a condition of the prostate submitted to pressure. 17. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising validating a recalculated acquired image. 18. An imaging method according to the preceding claim, wherein the checking is automatised by a processing for evaluating discrepancies between the reference image and the recalculated image. 19. An imaging method according to the preceding claim, wherein the checking is automatised by a processing for evaluating the discrepancies between canonical structures registered in the reference image and the acquired image, so as to finally issue an estimation of the final discrepancies. 20. An imaging method according to claim 1, further comprising integrating other images previously or subsequently acquired to superimpose these on the reference image and biopsy paths. 21. A prostatic imaging system comprising a rectal probe and a calculator, with the probe including an ultrasonographic head for taking an image of a puncture area done with a needle actuated by an operator, with the calculator recording and processing the images acquired by the ultrasonographic head, the calculator also recording and processing images required by the probe in order to calculate transformations to a "reference image" repository relating to an initial position of a prostate, with at least a part of the images acquired during successive punctures including a location of various positions of the needle being recorded with a view to visualising representations thereof on a unique image including at least a part of the prostate. 22. A prostatic imaging system according to the preceding claim, further comprising a receptacle for collecting samples of tissues with an identifier correlated with a marking of a corresponding sampling area on a single image of the marked prostate. 23. A prostatic imaging system according to claim 21, wherein the rectal probe is a manually activated probe without any robotised positioning. 24. A prostatic imaging system according to claim 21, wherein the rectal probe is a manually activated probe moved by an optical or magnetic locator. 25. A prostatic imaging system according to claim 21, wherein the rectal probe is a probe positioned by a robot. 26. A non-transitory computer medium including recording of a calculator controlling program for the implementation of prostatic imaging, the computer medium comprising programming instructions recording and processing images acquired by an ultrasonographic head of a rectal probe equipped with an active puncture guide, processing at least a part of the images acquired by the probe for calculating transformations to a "reference image" repository relative to the initial position of a prostate, with at least a part of the images acquired during successive punctures including a location of various positions of a needle being recorded with a view to visualizing representations thereof on a single image including at least a part of the prostate. 