A composite structure is provided. The structure includes at least one ply of preimpregnated material formed into a curved elongated member of continuous fibers onto a mandrel. The fibers have a select orientation. The curved elongated member has a length and a cross-sectional geometry that varies along the length.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a composite structure, the method comprising: applying at least one ply of unidirectional tape having a flexible carrier on a mandrel having an elongated forming surface upon which the composite structure is formed, the unidirectional tape including fiber reinforcement material and thermosetting resin, the flexible carrier removably coupled to a surface of the unidirectional tape; pressing the at least one ply and flexible carrier onto the elongated forming surface of the mandrel to shape the at least one ply and flexible carrier into at least part of the shape of the composite structure; protecting the at least one ply from the at least one roller with the flexible carrier; and preventing the at least one roller from sticking to the at least one ply with the flexible carrier. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the flexible carrier is a polymer carrier. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressing of the at least one ply and flexible carrier onto the elongated forming surface of the mandrel to shape the at least one ply with the flexible carrier into at least part of the shape of the composite structure further comprises: pressing the at least one ply and flexible carrier onto the elongated forming surface of the mandrel with at least one roller to form the shape of the composite structure. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: dispensing the at least one ply having the flexible carrier with a supply roller. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing the flexible carrier from the at least one ply after the at least one ply is shaped on the elongated forming surface of the mandrel. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: when applying the at least one ply having the flexible carrier to a curved part of the mandrel, introducing a select tension in the at least one ply and flexible carrier. 7. A method of forming a composite structure, the method comprising: applying at least one ply of unidirectional tape having a flexible carrier on a mandrel having an elongated forming surface upon which the composite structure is formed, the unidirectional tape including fiber reinforcement material and thermosetting resin, the flexible carrier removably coupled to a surface of the unidirectional tape; pressing the at least one ply and flexible carrier onto the elongated forming surface of the mandrel to shape the at least one ply and flexible carrier into at least part of the shape of the composite structure; wherein the at least one ply includes a plurality of plies of unidirectional tape, the method further includes, selecting the orientation of each ply of unidirectional tape based on expected loads and stresses during use of the composite structure. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein at least one ply has an orientation that is different than another ply of the plurality of plies. 9. A method of forming a composite structure, the method comprising: applying at least one ply of unidirectional tape having a flexible carrier on a mandrel having an elongated forming surface upon which the composite structure is formed, the unidirectional tape including fiber reinforcement material and thermosetting resin, the flexible carrier removably coupled to a surface of the unidirectional tape; pressing the at least one ply and flexible carrier onto the elongated forming surface of the mandrel to shape the at least one ply and flexible carrier into at least part of the shape of the composite structure; and using at least one squeegee in pressing the at least one ply and flexible carrier onto the elongated forming surface of the mandrel. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one squeegee contacts the flexible carrier. 11. A method of forming a composite structure, the method comprising: placing a first surface of at least one ply of unidirectional tape of fiber reinforcement material and thermosetting resin over a forming surface of a mandrel that is in a desired shape to form the shape of the composite structure, a second surface of the at least one ply being removably coupled to a flexible carrier; forming the at least one ply over the forming surface of the mandrel into at least part of the shape of the composite structure while the flexible carrier remains coupled to the at least one ply; and removing the flexible carrier after the at least one ply is formed on the forming surface of the mandrel. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein forming the at least one ply over the forming surface of the mandrel while the flexible carrier remains coupled to the at least one ply further comprises: passing at least one roller over the flexible carrier to press the at least one ply against the forming surface. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: dispensing the at least one ply having the flexible carrier from a supply roller. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprises: collecting the flexible carrier on a take-up roller after the at least one ply is formed over the forming surface. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein forming the at least one ply over the forming surface of the mandrel while the flexible carrier remains coupled to the at least one ply further comprises: pressing a squeegee against the flexible carrier. 16. A method of forming a composite structure, the method comprising: dispensing a ply of thermosetting resin with fiber reinforcement material and a carrier from a supply roller, the carrier removably coupled to a first side of the ply; placing a second side of the ply over a forming surface of a mandrel that is in the shape to form the composite structure; forming the ply and carrier over the forming surface of the mandrel by sequentially passing a plurality of rollers over the carrier; and collecting the carrier on a take-up roller after the ply is formed on the forming surface of the mandrel. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: forming at least one additional ply over the formed ply. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: applying at least one squeegee to the carrier to help form the ply over the forming surface. 