Embodiments of methods for making renewable diesel by deoxygenating (decarboxylating/decarbonylating/dehydrating) fatty acids to produce hydrocarbons are disclosed. Fatty acids are exposed to a catalyst selected from a) Pt and MO.sub.3 on ZrO.sub.2 (M is W, Mo, or a combination thereof), or b) Pt/Ge or Pt/Sn on carbon, and the catalyst decarboxylates at least 10% of the fatty acids. In particular embodiments, the catalyst consists essentially of 0.7 wt % Pt and 12 wt % WO.sub.3, relative to a mass of catalyst, or the catalyst consists essentially of a) 5 wt % Pt and b) 0.5 wt % Ge or 0.5 wt % Sn, relative to a mass of catalyst. Deoxygenation is performed without added hydrogen and at less than 100 psi. Disclosed embodiments of the catalysts deoxygenate at least 10% of fatty acids in a fatty acid feed, and remain capable of deoxygenating fatty acids for at least 200 minutes to more than 350 hours.
Claims We claim: 1. A method, comprising: providing a catalyst comprising a) Pt and MO.sub.3 on ZrO.sub.2 where M is W, Mo, or a combination thereof, b) Pt/Ge on carbon, c) Pt/Sn on carbon, or d) any combination thereof; exposing a composition comprising fatty acids to the catalyst; and deoxygenating at least 10% of the fatty acids with the catalyst to produce hydrocarbons. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein deoxygenating comprises decarboxylating, decarbonylating, dehydrating, or any combination thereof. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the fatty acids are obtained from a plant oil, a plant fat, an animal fat, or any combination thereof. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition is exposed to the catalyst without added hydrogen. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein at least 10% of the fatty acids in the composition are unsaturated fatty acids. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition is exposed to the catalyst at a pressure of less than 250 psi. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition is exposed to the catalyst at a pressure of less than 100 psi. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the fatty acids in the composition are free fatty acids, fatty acid esters, fatty acid monoglycerides, fatty acid diglycerides, fatty acid triglycerides, or any combination thereof. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least 90% of the fatty acids in the composition are free fatty acids. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising forming the free fatty acids by providing a source of triglycerides and hydrolyzing the triglycerides to produce the free fatty acids and glycerol. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: separating the free fatty acids from the glycerol; and recovering the glycerol. 12. The method of claim 10 further comprising hydrogenating the triglycerides before hydrolyzing the triglycerides. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the composition further comprises a hydrocarbon solvent. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the hydrocarbon solvent is obtained by recycling at least a portion of the hydrocarbons produced by deoxygenating fatty acids with the catalyst. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the fatty acids in the composition are unsaturated fatty acids, and further comprising hydrogenating at least 10% of unsaturated bonds in the unsaturated fatty acids prior to exposing the composition to the catalyst. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising storing the composition for a period of time prior to exposing the fatty acids to the catalyst. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is at a temperature of at least 250.degree. C. prior to exposing the composition to the catalyst, and the composition is not preheated before exposure to the catalyst. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is at a temperature of at least 250.degree. C. and the composition is preheated to a temperature of at least 50.degree. C. before exposure to the catalyst. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising disposing the catalyst within a column and flowing the composition through the column. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein exposing the composition to the catalyst comprises flowing the composition through the column at a WHSV of 0.1-2.0 hr.sup.-1. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the WHSV is 0.3-1.0 hr.sup.-1. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising concurrently flowing a gas through the column with the composition, wherein the gas is a) an inert gas, hydrogen, air, or oxygen, or b) a mixture of inert gas with hydrogen, air, oxygen, or a combination thereof. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the catalyst remains capable of deoxygenating at least 10% of the fatty acids for at least 200 minutes at a temperature of 200-500.degree. C. and a WHSV of 0.1-2.0 hr.sup.-1. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the catalyst remains capable of deoxygenating at least 10% of the fatty acids for at least 15,000 minutes. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein at least 80% of the fatty acids are deoxygenated after exposure to the catalyst. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein at least 90% of the fatty acids are saturated fatty acids and the catalyst is Pt and MO.sub.3 on ZrO.sub.2. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the catalyst comprises 0.1 wt % to 1.5 wt % Pt and 6 wt % to 30 wt % MO.sub.3, relative to a mass of the catalyst. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the catalyst consists essentially of 0.7 wt % Pt and 12 wt % WO.sub.3, relative to the mass of the catalyst. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the catalyst consists essentially of 0.7 wt % Pt and 7.8 wt % MoO.sub.3, relative to the mass of the catalyst. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the fatty acids are unsaturated fatty acids and the catalyst is Pt/Ge on carbon, Pt/Sn on carbon, or a mixture thereof. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the catalyst comprises a) 5 wt % Pt and b) 0.5 wt % Ge or 0.5 wt % Sn, relative to a mass of the catalyst. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein exposing the unsaturated fatty acids to the catalyst results in cyclization and/or aromatization of up to 10% of the fatty acids. 33. The method of claim 30, wherein exposing the unsaturated fatty acids to the catalyst results in isomerization, cracking, alkylation, cyclization and/or aromatization of greater than 10% of the fatty acids. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the hydrocarbons are unsaturated hydrocarbons, and further comprising hydrogenating the unsaturated hydrocarbons to produce saturated hydrocarbons. 35. The method of claim 1, further comprising fractionating the hydrocarbons to produce one or more hydrocarbon fractions. 36. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing the hydrocarbons as a fuel in an engine. 37. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing the hydrocarbons as an aviation fuel. 38. The method of claim 1, further comprising blending the hydrocarbons with petroleum fuel to produce a blended fuel. 39. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing at least a portion of the hydrocarbons as a reactant in a chemical synthesis reaction. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein exposing the composition to the catalyst comprises heating the composition in the presence of the catalyst at a temperature of at least 50.degree. C., and wherein deoxygenating at least 10% of the fatty acids is performed at a temperature of at least 250.degree. C. 41. A method, comprising: exposing a composition comprising fatty acids to a first catalyst in a first catalyst bed at a temperature of at least 50.degree. C., wherein the first catalyst comprises a) Pt and MO.sub.3 on ZrO.sub.2 where M is W, Mo, or a combination thereof, b) Pt/Ge on carbon, c) Pt/Sn on carbon, or d) any combination thereof; and deoxygenating at least 10% of the fatty acids to produce hydrocarbons by exposing the composition to a second catalyst in a second catalyst bed at a temperature of at least 250.degree. C., wherein the second catalyst comprises a) Pt and MO.sub.3 on ZrO.sub.2 where M is W, Mo, or a combination thereof, b) Pt/Ge on carbon, c) Pt/Sn on carbon, or d) any combination thereof. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the second catalyst comprises substantially the same chemical composition as the first catalyst. 43. The method of claim 41, wherein the second catalyst comprises a different chemical composition than the first catalyst. 