Featured are systems, devices and apparatuses for use in minimally invasive surgical, diagnostic or therapeutic methods and/or techniques, in particular methods and/or techniques for a mammalian throat. In particular embodiments, a dexterity apparatus including one or more dexterity devices is featured, where each of the dexterity devices comprises surgical tools and each is configured and arranged with end-tip dexterity for enhanced manipulation. A portion of the dexterity devices is snake like, which is re-configurable (i.e., can be bent) so as to in effect maneuver the surgical tool and put the tool in a desired position with respect to the surgical site. Another portion of the dexterity device includes the surgical tool thereby providing the capability of performing surgical actions such as sewing, gripping, soft tissue manipulation, cutting and suction of saliva, blood and other materials from the surgical site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A distal dexterity apparatus comprising: at least one distal dexterity device; wherein each of the at least one distal dexterity device has an operable end, the operable end including a tool and a flexible manipulation device, wherein the tool is operably coupled to the flexible manipulation device; wherein the flexible manipulation device is configured and arranged so as to maneuver the tool in one or more directions; an actuation device that is operably coupled to the flexible manipulation device; wherein the actuation device is configured and arranged so as to cause the flexible manipulation device to maneuver the operably coupled tool in one or more directions responsive to outputs of the actuation device; wherein said flexible manipulation device includes a plurality of axial extending members, each of the axially extending members being configured and arranged so as to be flexible in bending and stiff in the axial direction so that the axially extending members serve as structural stiffening elements when the manipulation device is being manipulated so as to move the tool; wherein said flexible manipulation device includes: a base member, an end member, the end member being proximal the tool, one or more intermediate spacer members, and wherein one of the plurality of axial extending members is secured to each of the base member, the end member and each of the intermediate spacer members; and wherein the other of the plurality of axial extending members are flexible tubular members having internal actuator wires disposed therein to maneuver the operably coupled tool, the flexible tubular members secured to the end member and slidably disposed through apertures in each of the one or more intermediate members and the base member. 2. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible manipulation device is configured and arranged so as to be capable of two degrees of freedom when acted upon by the actuation device. 3. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, wherein said actuating device is operably coupled to each of said other of the plurality of axial extending members and is configured and arranged so as to impose one of a pushing or pulling force on each of the other of the plurality of axial extending members so as to thereby correspondingly one of push or pull against the end member there by causing the flexible manipulation device to be manipulated. 4. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a device manipulation unit operable coupled to the distal dexterity device so as to cause one of axial movement of the distal dexterity device operable end along a long axis of the distal dexterity device or rotation of the distal dexterity device about the long axis. 5. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a device manipulation unit and wherein the distal dexterity device further includes a holder member that is operably coupled to the operable end and wherein the device manipulation unit is operably coupled to the holder member so that one of axial movement of the operable end along a long axis of the distal dexterity device or rotation about the long axis results from action of the device manipulation unit upon the holder member. 6. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of axially extending members are configured and arranged so as to form a continuous non-extensible flexible backbone system. 7. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 6, wherein said other of the plurality of axially extending members are arranged so one or more of said other of the plurality of axially extending members are disposed about and parallel to the one of the plurality of axially extending members that is centrally located. 8. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 7, wherein there are three axially extending members that are disposed about and parallel to the centrally located axially extending member. 9. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 7, wherein the other of the plurality of axially extending members comprise backbones of the continuous non-extensible flexible backbone system. 10. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 7, wherein: said actuating device is operably coupled to each of said other of the plurality of axially extending members disposed about and parallel to the centrally located axially extending member, and said actuating device is configured and arranged so as to impose one of a pushing or pulling force on each of said other of the plurality of axially extending members disposed about and parallel to the centrally located axially extending member so as to thereby correspondingly one of push or pull against an end member of the continuous non-extensible flexible backbone system, there by causing the flexible backbone system to be manipulated. 11. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 6, wherein said actuating device is operably coupled to one or more of said other of the plurality of axial extending members and is configured and arranged so as to impose one of a pushing or pulling force on each of said other of the plurality of axial extending members so as to thereby correspondingly one of push or pull against an end member of the flexible manipulation device thereby causing the flexible manipulation device to be manipulated. 12. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 6, wherein each distal dexterity device includes a moveable unit and a coupling device that operably couples the moveable unit to the actuation device; and wherein the activation device is configured and arranged to move the moveable unit with respect to an end member of the continuous non-extensible flexible backbone system. 13. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 12, wherein the coupling device comprises a plurality of actuating members, each actuating member being operably coupled to the actuation device and to the moveable unit. 14. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 13, wherein each of the plurality of axially extending members are configured so as to include a lumen and wherein each of the plurality of actuating members is disposed in the lumen of one of the plurality or more of extending members. 15. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of axially extending members are configured so as to include a lumen. 16. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of distal dexterity devices. 17. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of distal dexterity devices are arranged in series. 18. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tool is removably, operably coupled to the end member so as to extend outwardly from an end of the flexible manipulation device. 19. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, wherein the central axially extending member is a flexible tubular member. 20. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 1, wherein each flexible tubular member comprises a super-elastic material. 21. A distal dexterity apparatus comprising: at least one distal dexterity device; wherein each of the at least one distal dexterity device has an operable end, the operable end including a tool and a flexible backbone system; wherein the flexible backbone system includes a plurality of secondary axially extending backbone members that are disposed about and parallel to a central axially extending backbone member, each of the secondary axially extending backbone members and central axially extending backbone member is configured and arranged so as to be flexible in bending and stiff in the axial direction such that the axially extending members provide push and pull axial forces while being able to bend sideways when the flexible backbone system is being manipulated; the flexible backbone assembly being operably coupled to the tool so that motion of the flexible backbone system is imposed on the tool; an actuation device operably coupled to the plurality of secondary backbone members and being configured and arranged so as to cause the flexible backbone system to maneuver the tool in one or more directions responsive to outputs from the actuation device; and wherein the axially extending members make use of both push and pull actuation; wherein said flexible backbone system further includes: a base member; an end member; and one or more intermediate spacer members; wherein the centrally located backbone members is secured to each of the base member, the end member and each of the intermediate spacer members; and wherein the each of the plurality of secondary backbone members is a flexible tubular member having an internal actuator wire disposed therein to maneuver the operably coupled tool, the flexible tubular members secured to the end member and slidably disposed through apertures in each of the one or more intermediate members and the base member. 22. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein the flexible backbone system is configured and arranged so as to be capable of two degrees of freedom. 23. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein said actuating device is operably coupled to each of said plurality of secondary backbone members and is configured and arranged so as to impose one of a pushing or pulling force on each of the plurality of secondary backbone members so as to thereby correspondingly one of push or pull against an end member of the flexible backbone system thereby causing the flexible backbone system to be re-configured. 24. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a device manipulation unit operable coupled to the distal dexterity device, the device manipulation unit be configured and arranged so as to cause one of axial movement of the distal dexterity device operable end along a long axis of the distal dexterity device or rotation of the distal dexterity device about the long axis. 25. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a device manipulation unit and wherein the distal dexterity device further includes a holder member that is operably coupled to the operable end and wherein the device manipulation unit is operably coupled to the holder member so that one of axial movement of the distal dexterity device operable end along a long axis of the distal dexterity device or rotation of the distal dexterity device about the long axis results from action of the device manipulation unit upon the holder member. 26. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein each distal dexterity device includes a moveable unit and a coupling device that operably couples the moveable unit to the actuation device; and wherein the activation device is configured and arranged to move the moveable unit with respect to an end member of the flexible backbone system. 27. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 26, wherein the coupling device comprises a plurality of actuating members, each actuating member being operably coupled to the actuation device and to the moveable unit. 28. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 27, wherein each of the plurality of secondary backbone members are configured so as to include a lumen and wherein each of the plurality of actuating members is disposed in the lumen of one of the plurality of secondary backbone members. 29. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein each of the plurality of axially extending members are configured so as to include a lumen. 30. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein there are three secondary backbone members. 31. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, further comprising a plurality of distal dexterity devices. 32. A distal dexterity apparatus of claim 31, further comprising a rotating base member being configured and arranged to rotate about a first axis of rotation, and wherein each of the distal dexterity devices is operably coupled to the rotating base member so that a long axis of each is essentially parallel to the first axis of rotation, whereby rotation of the rotating base member causes the operable end of each distal dexterity device to rotate about the first axis of rotation. 33. The distal dexterity device of claim 32, further comprising a device manipulation unit operable coupled to the distal dexterity device and to the rotating base member, the device manipulation device being configured and arranged so as to cause one of axial movement of the distal dexterity device operable end along a long axis of the distal dexterity device or rotation of the distal dexterity device about a second axis of rotation. 34. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 32, further comprising a device manipulation unit that is operably coupled to the rotating base member and wherein: each distal dexterity device further includes a holder member that is operably coupled to the operable end, and wherein the device manipulation unit is operably coupled to the holder member so that one of axial movement of the distal dexterity device operable end along a long axis of the distal dexterity device or rotation about a second axis of rotation axis results from action of the device manipulation unit upon the holder member. 35. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 31, wherein the plurality of distal dexterity devices are arranged in series. 36. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein the actuation device is configured and arranged to apply a linear force on each of the plurality of secondary axially extending backbone members. 37. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein the actuation device is configured and arranged to apply one of a push or a pull force on each of the plurality of secondary axially extending backbone members. 38. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein the tool is removably, operably coupled to the end member so as to extend outwardly from an end of the flexible backbone assembly. 39. The distal dexterity device of claim 21, wherein the tool is removably, operably coupled to the end member so as to extend outwardly from an end of the flexible backbone assembly. 40. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 21, wherein each flexible tubular member comprises a super-elastic material. 41. A distal dexterity device comprising: an operable end having that a tool and a flexible backbone system, wherein the flexible backbone system includes a plurality of secondary axially extending backbone members that are disposed about and parallel to a central axially extending backbone member and wherein the flexible backbone assembly is operably coupled to the tool so that motion of the flexible backbone system is imposed on the tool; wherein each of the secondary axially extending backbone members and the central axially extending backbone member is configured and arranged so as to be flexible in bending and stiff in the axial direction such that the axially extending members provide push and pull axial forces while being able to bend sideways when the flexible backbone system is being manipulated; an actuation device that is operably coupled to the plurality of secondary backbone members, the actuation device being configured and arranged to cause the flexible backbone system to maneuver the tool in one or more directions responsive to action of the actuation device; wherein the axially extending members make use of both push and pull actuation; wherein said flexible backbone system further includes: a base member, an end member, one or more intermediate spacer members, and wherein the centrally located backbone members is secured to each of the base member, the end member and each of the intermediate spacer members; and wherein the each of the plurality of secondary backbone members is a flexible tubular member having an internal actuator wire disposed therein to maneuver the operably coupled tool, the flexible tubular members secured to the end member and slidably disposed through apertures in each of the one or more intermediate members and the base member. 42. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, wherein the flexible backbone system is configured and arranged so as to be capable of two degrees of freedom. 43. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, wherein said actuating device is configured and arranged so as to impose one of a pushing or pulling force on each of the plurality of secondary backbone members so as to thereby correspondingly one of push or pull against an end member of the flexible backbone system thereby causing the flexible backbone system to move the tool. 44. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, further comprising a moveable unit which is operably coupled to the tool and a coupling device that operably couples the moveable unit to the actuation device; and wherein the actuation device is configured and arranged to move the moveable unit with respect to an end member of the flexible backbone system. 45. The distal dexterity device of claim 44, wherein the coupling device comprises a plurality of actuating members, each actuating member being operably coupled to the actuation device and to the moveable unit. 46. The distal dexterity device of claim 45, wherein the actuating members and the moveable unit are each configured and arranged so that the moveable unit is removably operably coupled to each actuating member. 47. The distal dexterity device of claim 45, wherein each of the plurality of secondary backbone members are configured so as to include a lumen and wherein each of the plurality of actuating members is disposed in the lumen of one of the plurality of secondary backbone members. 48. The distal dexterity device of claim 44, wherein the coupling device and the moveable unit are configured and arranged so that the moveable unit is removably operably coupled to the coupling device. 49. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, wherein each of the plurality or more of secondary backbone members is configured so as to include a lumen. 50. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, wherein there are three secondary backbone members. 51. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, further comprising: a second flexible backbone system, the second flexible backbone system including a plurality of secondary axially extending backbone members that are disposed about and parallel to a central axially extending backbone member; and a second actuation device being operably coupled to the plurality or more of secondary backbone members of the second backbone system, said second actuation device being configured and arranged so as to be able to cause the second flexible backbone system to further maneuver the tool in one or more directions responsive to action of the second actuation device independently of motion attributable to the flexible backbone system of the operable end. 52. The distal dexterity device of claim 51, wherein the second flexible backbone system and the flexible backbone system of the operable end are arranged in series. 53. The distal dexterity device of claim 52, wherein each of the plurality of secondary backbone members of the flexible backbone system of the operable end are configured so as to include a lumen and wherein each of the plurality of secondary backbone members of the second flexible backbone system is disposed in the lumen of one of the plurality of secondary backbone members of the flexible backbone system of the operable end. 54. The distal dexterity device of claim 53, further comprising a moveable unit which is operably coupled to the tool and a coupling device that operably couples the moveable unit to the actuation device; wherein the actuation device is configured and arranged so as to include a plurality of actuating members, each actuating member being operably coupled to the actuation device and to the moveable unit and so as to move the moveable unit with respect to an end member of the flexible backbone system; wherein each of the plurality of secondary backbone members of the second flexible backbone system are configured so as to include a lumen; and wherein each of the plurality of actuating members is disposed in the lumen of one of the plurality of secondary backbone members of the second flexible backbone system. 55. The distal dexterity device of claim 51, further comprising: one or more second flexible backbone systems; and one or more second actuation devices, one for each of the one or more second flexible backbone systems. 56. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, wherein said actuation device comprises: one backbone linear actuator for each of the plurality or more of secondary backbone members, wherein each backbone linear actuator is operably coupled to a corresponding one of the plurality of secondary backbone members; and wherein each backbone linear actuator is configured and arranged to impart movement in 2 degrees of freedom in the corresponding one of the plurality of secondary backbone members. 57. The distal dexterity device of claim 56, further comprising a moveable unit that is operably coupled to the tool and a coupling device that operably couples the moveable unit to the actuation device; wherein the actuation device is configured and arranged so as to include a plurality of actuating members, each actuating member being operably coupled to the actuation device and to the moveable unit and so as to move the moveable unit with respect to an end member of the flexible backbone system; and wherein said actuation device further comprises: one actuating member linear actuator for each of the plurality of actuating members, wherein each actuating member linear actuator is operably coupled to a corresponding one of the plurality of actuating members, and wherein each actuating member linear actuator is configured and arranged to impart movement in 2 degrees of freedom in the corresponding one of the plurality of actuating members. 58. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, further comprising a moveable unit that is operably coupled to the tool and a coupling device that operably couples the moveable unit to the actuation device; wherein the actuation device is configured and arranged so as to include a plurality of actuating members, each actuating member being operably coupled to the actuation device and to the moveable unit and so as to move the moveable unit with respect to an end member of the flexible backbone system; and wherein said actuation device comprises: one actuating member linear actuator for each of the plurality of actuating members, wherein each actuating member linear actuator is operably coupled to a corresponding one of the plurality of actuating members; and wherein each actuating member linear actuator is configured and arranged to impart movement in 2 degrees of freedom in the corresponding one of the plurality of actuating members. 59. The distal dexterity device of claim 41, wherein the central axially extending member is a flexible tubular member. 60. The distal dexterity apparatus of claim 41, wherein each flexible tubular member comprises a super-elastic material. 