Apparatus and methods for endoscopic colectomy are described herein. A colectomy device having a first and a second tissue approximation device is mounted on a colonoscope separated from one another. During deployment of the colectomy device, a diseased portion of the colon is positioned inbetween the tissue approximation devices. The tissue approximation devices are radially expanded such that they contact and grasp the colon wall at two sites adjacent to the diseased portion of the colon. The diseased portion is separated from the omentum and is transected using a laparoscope or is drawn into the colonoscope for later removal. The tissue approximation devices are then urged towards one another over the colonoscope to approximate the two free edges of the colon into contact together where they are fastened to one another using the tissue approximation device as a surgical stapler to create an end-to-end anastomosis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of endoscopically approximating tissue within a hollow body organ, the method comprising: positioning an elongated body adjacent to a portion of tissue to be excised from the hollow body organ; radially expanding a first tissue approximation component into contact with a first region of tissue and a second tissue approximation component into contact with a second region of tissue; releasably gripping the first region of tissue circumferentially about the first tissue approximation component via a gripping force exerted by the first tissue approximation component and the second region of tissue circumferentially about the second tissue approximation component via a gripping force exerted by the second tissue approximation component, such that the tissue to be excised is positioned between the first and the second tissue approximation components; removing the tissue to be excised from between the first and the second tissue approximation components; approximating the first and the second tissue approximation components such that the first and the second regions of tissue are adjacent to one another; and fastening the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and the second regions of tissue are releasably gripped by the first and the second tissue approximation components, respectively, via a vacuum force. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and the second regions of tissue are releasably gripped by the first and the second tissue approximation components, respectively, via a plurality of attachment members. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the attachment members are chosen from at least one of needles, hooks, and barbs. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the attachment members are retractable into the first and the second tissue approximation components, and wherein the method comprises retracting the attachment members after fastening the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein removing the tissue to be excised comprises laparoscopically excising the tissue from between the first and the second tissue approximation components. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein approximating the first and the second tissue approximation components comprises longitudinally translating the first and the second tissue approximation components towards one another along the elongated body. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein fastening the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue comprises stapling or suturing the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue via the first or the second tissue approximation component. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising radially reducing a diameter of the first and the second tissue approximation components. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein positioning the elongated body adjacent to the portion of tissue to be excised comprises positioning the elongated body adjacent to a portion of diseased tissue to be excised. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and the second regions of tissue are connected by the portion of tissue to be excised prior to removing the tissue to be excised. 12. A method of endoscopically approximating tissue within a hollow body organ, the method comprising: releasably gripping from within the hollow body organ a first region of tissue circumferentially about a first tissue approximation component via a gripping force exerted by the first tissue approximation component; releasably gripping from within the hollow body organ a second region of tissue circumferentially about a second tissue approximation component via a gripping force exerted by the second tissue approximation component; approximating the first and the second tissue approximation components such that the first and the second regions of tissue are adjacent to one another; fastening the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue; and radially reducing a diameter of the first and the second tissue approximation components. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the first and the second regions of tissue are releasably gripped by the first and the second tissue approximation components, respectively, via a vacuum force. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the first and the second regions of tissue are releasably gripped by the first and the second tissue approximation components, respectively, via a plurality of attachment members. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the attachment members are retractable into the first and the second tissue approximation components, and wherein the method comprises retracting the attachment members after fastening the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the method further comprises radially expanding the first tissue approximation component and the second tissue approximation component, respectively, before releasably gripping the first region of tissue and the second region of tissue. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein fastening the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue comprises stapling or suturing the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue via the first or the second tissue approximation component. 18. A method of endoscopically approximating tissue within a hollow body organ, comprising: radially expanding a first tissue approximation component into contact with a first region of tissue within the hollow body organ and a second tissue approximation component into contact with a second region of tissue within the hollow body organ; releasably gripping the first region of tissue circumferentially about the first tissue approximation component via a gripping force exerted by the first tissue approximation component; releasably gripping the second region of tissue circumferentially about the second tissue approximation component via a gripping force exerted by the second tissue approximation component; approximating the first and the second tissue approximation components toward one another such that the first and the second regions of tissue are adjacent to one another; and fastening the first region of tissue to the second region of tissue via an anastomosis mechanism carried on either the first tissue approximation component or the second tissue approximation component. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the first and the second regions of tissue are releasably gripped by the first and the second tissue approximation components, respectively, via a vacuum force. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the first and the second regions of tissue are releasably gripped by the first and the second tissue approximation components, respectively, via a plurality of attachment members. 21. The method of claim 18, further comprising excising tissue located between the first and the second regions of tissue gripped by the first and the second tissue approximation components respectively. 