Using screening of transposon random insertion mutants, genes involved in accumulation of (p)ppGpp were found to be involved in bacterial cell response to butanol. Reduced production of proteins with enzymatic activity for (p)ppGpp biosynthesis confers increased butanol tolerance. Bacterial strains with reduced (p)ppGpp accumulation and having a butanol or 2-butanone biosynthetic pathway are useful for production of butanol or 2-butanone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A recombinant bacterial cell producing butanol or 2-butanone said bacterial cell comprising at least one genetic modification which reduces accumulation of (p)ppGpp, wherein the at least one genetic modification is a disruption in an endogenous gene encoding SpoT or RelA or in an operon comprising an open reading frame encoding SpoT or RelA; a) the SpoT protein having: 1) an E-value parameter of 0.01 or less when queried using the Pfam Profile HMM for the RelA/Spot domain; and 2) an E-value parameter of 0.01 or less when queried using the Pfam Profile HMM for the TGS domain; and 3) an E-value parameter of 0.01 or less when queried using the Pfam Profile HMM for the HD domain; and b) the RelA protein having: a) an E-value parameter of 0.01 or less when queried using the Pfam Profile HMM for the RelA/SpoT domain; and b) an E-value parameter of 0.01 or less when queried using the Pfam Profile HMM for the TGS domain. 2. The bacterial cell of claim 1 comprising a recombinant biosynthetic pathway selected from the group consisting of: a) a 1-butanol biosynthetic pathway; b) a 2-butanol biosynthetic pathway; c) an isobutanol biosynthetic pathway; and d) a 2-butanone biosynthetic pathway. 3. The recombinant bacterial cell of claim 1, wherein the cell is a member of a genus selected from the group consisting of Clostridium, Escherichia, Rhodococcus, Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Lactobacillus, and Enterococcus. 4. The recombinant bacterial cell of claim 2 wherein the 1-butanol biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding crotonase; d) at least one genetic construct encoding butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase; e) at least one genetic construct encoding butyraldehyde; dehydrogenase; and f) at least one genetic construct encoding 1-butanol dehydrogenase. 5. The recombinant bacterial cell of claim 2 wherein the 2-butanol biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetolactate synthase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding acetolactate decarboxylase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydrogenase; d) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydratase; and e) at least one genetic construct encoding 2-butanol dehydrogenase. 6. The recombinant bacterial cell of claim 2 wherein the isobutanol biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetolactate synthase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding acetohydroxy acid dehydratase; d) at least one genetic construct encoding branched-chain keto acid decarboxylase; and e) at least one genetic construct encoding branched-chain alcohol dehydrogenase. 7. The recombinant bacterial cell of claim 2, wherein the 2-butanone biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetolactate synthase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding acetolactate decarboxylase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydrogenase; and d) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydratase. 8. A process for production of butanol or 2-butanone from a recombinant bacterial cell comprising: (a) providing a recombinant bacterial host cell of claim 1; and (b) culturing the strain of (a) under conditions wherein butanol or 2-butanone is produced. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein the recombinant bacterial host comprises a recombinant biosynthetic pathway selected from the group consisting of: a) a 1-butanol biosynthetic pathway; b) a 2-butanol biosynthetic pathway; c) an isobutanol biosynthetic pathway; and d) a 2-butanone biosynthetic pathway. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein the 1-butanol biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding 3-hydroxybutyryl-CoA dehydrogenase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding crotonase; d) at least one genetic construct encoding butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase; e) at least one genetic construct encoding butyraldehyde; dehydrogenase; and f) at least one genetic construct encoding 1-butanol dehydrogenase. 11. The process of claim 9 wherein the 2-butanol biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetolactate synthase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding acetolactate decarboxylase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydrogenase; d) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydratase; and e) at least one genetic construct encoding 2-butanol dehydrogenase. 12. The process of claim 9 wherein the isobutanol biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetolactate synthase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding acetohydroxy acid isomeroreductase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding acetohydroxy acid dehydratase; d) at least one genetic construct encoding branched-chain keto acid decarboxylase; and e) at least one genetic construct encoding branched-chain alcohol dehydrogenase. 13. The process of claim 9 wherein the 2-butanone biosynthetic pathway comprises: a) at least one genetic construct encoding an acetolactate synthase; b) at least one genetic construct encoding acetolactate decarboxylase; c) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydrogenase; and d) at least one genetic construct encoding butanediol dehydratase. 