Exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for assembling electronic devices, such as integrated circuit (IC) chips, by selectively and scalably embedding or seating IC elements onto/into a receiving substrate, such as a chip substrate. Preparing of the chip substrate can be performed by depositing or patterning an activatable thermal barrier material on a surface of the substrate. The IC chips are secured on the prepared substrate by activating the thermal barrier material between the chip substrate and IC chips. Securing can include softening of the chip substrate with the activated thermal barrier material to an amount suitable for embedding the IC chips. Securing can also include adhesively bonding the IC chips to the substrate with the activated thermal barrier material in the case of a non-pliable substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling integrated circuits comprising: providing a chip substrate for supporting one or more IC elements on the chip substrate; providing an activatable thermal barrier layer on the chip substrate; transferring one or more IC elements to the chip substrate, wherein the activatable thermal barrier material is provided between the one or more transferred IC elements and the chip substrate; bonding each transferred IC element onto the chip substrate, wherein bonding each transferred IC element comprises activating the thermal barrier layer by applying an energy source to heat and activate the bonding function of the activatable thermal barrier layer to bond each transferred IC element onto the chip substrate; wherein the chip substrate comprises plastic; and wherein activating the thermal barrier material further comprises softening the plastic substrate in an amount sufficient to embed the IC chip therein. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising embedding the IC chip to have a surface flush with a surface of the plastic substrate. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising embedding the IC chip to a predetermined depth within a surface of the plastic substrate. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein bonding further comprises applying pressure to embed each transferred IC element into the plastic chip substrate. 5. A method for assembling integrated circuits comprising: selectively applying an activatable thermal barrier material on a chip substrate, the activatable thermal barrier material comprising an IR absorber; applying a thermal energy to the activatable thermal barrier material and thereby soften underlying portions of the chip substrate; positioning one or more IC elements that are attached to a release layer with respect to the chip substrate such that each IC element contacts a corresponding softened portion of the chip substrate; applying pressure to embed each IC element into the corresponding softened portion of the chip substrate; and removing the release layer. 