In one embodiment, a method includes capturing an image of a first organic polarized object using an image capture device. The method also includes collecting a first image data of the first organic polarized object. The method further includes algorithmically calculating a first dimension data based on the first image data. The method further includes generating a first data table of the first dimension data. The method also includes forming a training data set using the first data table. The method also includes computing high vote count data for second organic polarized object using the training data and second dimension data sets to identify precise shape, size, location and orientation. The method further includes calibrating coordinate systems of a robotic end effector with an image capture device and commanding the robotic end effector to pick up and place the second organic polarized object in a precise location and orientation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: capturing an image of a first organic polarized object using a camera; collecting a first image data of the first organic polarized object; algorithmically calculating a first dimension data of the first organic polarized object including a center and edges of the first organic polarized object using a processor; generating a first data table of the first dimension data of the first organic polarized object; and forming a training data set through at least one of transformation and scaling of the first data table of the first organic polarized object. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: capturing a second image of a second organic polarized object using the camera; collecting a second image data of the second organic polarized object; algorithmically calculating a second dimension data of the second organic polarized object comprising, the center and edges of the second organic polarized object using the processor; calculating a high vote count data using the second dimension data of the captured image of the second organic polarized object; creating a second data table of the second dimension data of the second organic polarized object; determining the second dimension data as a distinct data for the second organic polarized object even if the second organic polarized object is in an at least one of an adjacent, a bordering, a overlapping, an underneath to the other object and an up-side down state; comparing the training data set to the second dimension by generating high vote count data to identify at least one of the second organic polarized object and a precise size, shape, orientation and location data of the second organic polarized object using the processor; selecting a robotic end effector movement having an `n` degrees of freedom of movement; picking up the second organic polarized object using the robotic end effector in at least one of a precise location and a precise orientation; and transporting the second organic polarized object from a first location and first orientation to a second location and second orientation in a specific tray with a slot and/or pins; having the slot in a specific shape to receive a first end of the second organic polarized object into the slot before a second end of the second organic polarized object, such that the first end of the second organic polarized object is oriented towards a narrow base of the slot and the second end is oriented towards a broad opening of the slot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the dimension data is at least one of a width, a depth, a length, a distance, an intensity, a curvature, a surface area, a volume, a narrow field, a broad field, edges, center and an angle. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: finding the edges of the first organic polarized object from the captured image to create the training set data. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising correcting an angle of deposit based on the type of the slot. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising: depositing the organic polarized object in the precise location and orientation in a slot in the tray or onto a pin. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: permitting the "n" degrees of freedom of movement is at least one of a moving up and down in heaving, a moving left and right in swaying, a moving forward and backward in surging, a tilting forward and backward in pitching, a turning left and right in yawing, a full axis motion in 360 degree rotation, a tilting side to side in rolling, and a moving along at least one of x, y, and z coordinate axes. 8. An organic polarized object detector system, comprising: an image module to process an image of a first organic polarized object using a processor; an algorithm module to calculate a dimension data from a captured image of a first and a second organic polarized object; a training set module to store a training data set; a calibration module to align the coordinate systems of a robotic end effector with an image capture device; and a movement module to direct the robotic end effector to perform a specific movement based on the organic polarized object dimension data at "n" degree of freedom. 9. The system of claim 8, further comprising: a transport module to determine the `n` degree of freedom movement for the robotic end effector; the movement module with an aid of the training set module to allocate a next best position for the second organic polarized object on a tray; and a quality assurance module to select a specific size, characteristics and shape of the second organic polarized object based on the training set data of first organic polarized object. 10. The system of claim 9, further comprising a change module to indicate a change of tray is warranted once the tray has reached a maximum capacity to hold the organic polarized object. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein the dimension data is at least one of a width, a depth, a length, a distance, an intensity, a curvature, a surface area, a volume, a narrow field, a broad field, edges, center and an angle. 12. The system of claim 8 further comprising: the movement module with the "n" degrees of freedom of movement is at least one of a moving up and down in heaving, a moving left and right in swaying, a moving forward and backward in surging, a tilting forward and backward in pitching, a turning left and right in yawing, a full axis motion in 360 degree rotation, a tilting side to side in rolling, and a moving along at least one of x, y, and z coordinate axes. 13. The system of claim 8, further comprising an alert module to indicate that a maximum threshold for depositing the second organic polarized object has been reached. 14. An organic polarized object detector apparatus, comprising: an image capture device to record an image of at least one of a first organic polarized object and a second organic polarized object; a data storage device to store a data set from the image capture device after a capture of the image; a processor to calculate the "n" degree of freedom movement for a robotic end effector using a training data and organic polarized object dimension data sets; a tray with at least one of a plurality of slots and a plurality of pins to hold the second organic polarized object at a specific coordinate; and a signal device to indicate that the tray has reached a maximum capacity and to prompt a change for another empty tray. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising: the robotic end effector controlled by a pneumatic cylinders having a first elongated extension and a second elongated extension to hold the second organic polarized object; the first elongated extension and the second elongated extension having a sensor device to control a closer of the first elongated extension and the second elongated extension; and a software to control the robotic end effector and "n" degrees of freedom movement for the robotic end effector. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the sensor device is at least one of a capacitive sensor, a resistive sensor and an inductive sensor. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the image capture device is at least one of an infra red device, a laser device, a camera, a biosensor, a color sensor, a heat sensor and a water sensor. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the `n` degrees of freedom of movement is at least one of a moving up and down in heaving, a moving left and right in swaying, a moving forward and backward in surging, a tilting forward and backward in pitching, a turning left and right in yawing, a full axis motion in 360 degree rotation, a tilting side to side in rolling, and a moving along at least one of x, y, and z coordinate axes. 19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the dimension data is at least one of a width, a depth, a length, a distance, an intensity, a curvature, a surface area, a volume, a narrow field, a broad field, edges, center and an angle. 20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the tray is a part of a large automated assembly system. 