Autonomous personal service robot to monitor its owner for symptoms of distress and provide assistance. The system may include sensors to detect situations before they affect people such as smoke, heat, temperature and carbon monoxide sensors. The system can provide security for the home. The PRA may comprise features such as a medicine dispenser and blood pressure cuff. Features such as broadband internet, MP3 player, reading lights and eye glass tracker provide butler type capabilities that enable the system to appeal to markets beyond the elderly and infirmed. The system may also include an X10 transmitter/receiver to automatically control various household lights and appliances. Equipping the system with a robot arm enables the robot to fetch items, turn on and off wall switches and open the refrigerator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous personal service robot comprising: a frame; a drive system coupled with said frame and configured to move said frame; at least one camera coupled with said frame wherein said at least one camera comprise a pair of cameras that are offset from a horizontal axis between 0 and 90 degrees, a processor coupled with said frame and configured to operate said drive system to move said at least one camera coupled with said frame to dynamically map an environment, said processor further configured to: identify a person stored in memory based on at least one of said person's face, gait, voice and routines using at least one image obtained from said at least one camera; calculate a change in camera position and a change in frame position and move said frame and said at least one camera to follow said person when said person moves to a different location in a room or different room and to track and monitor said person using at least one image obtained from said at least one camera; and determine if an out-of-ordinary event has occurred wherein said out-of-ordinary event comprises a body of said person has remained stationary for a period of time over a threshold; notify a third-party for intervention based on said out-of-ordinary event. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a communications interface coupled with said processor; and, said processor configured to transmit an alarm using said communications interface based on said out-of-ordinary event. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor is configured to learn at least one habit of said person and wherein said processor uses said at least one habit to alter a search for said person. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor is configured to enter search mode when said person is in an unknown position. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor is configured to determine if said person is in an unusual location wherein said person is sitting or laying down. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 said processor is further configured to transmit a picture taken with said at least one camera to a second person using a communications interface. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor is configured to enter visitor mode when a plurality of persons are detected in said environment. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor is configured to recognize furniture and classify a room based on said furniture in said room. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processor is configured to remind said person of an event or to perform a task. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said out-of-ordinary event further comprises said person has not taken medications for a second period of time over a second threshold, or a room temperature is below a first temperature or above a second temperature, or a carbon monoxide sample value is above a first carbon monoxide threshold. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a base station configured to charge said autonomous personal service robot; a video screen interface coupled with said processor; and, an audio interface coupled with said processor. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a medical dispenser coupled with said autonomous personal service robot and configured to dispense medication at programmable intervals. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a fire extinguisher coupled with said autonomous personal service robot and configured to put out a fire as detected by a sensor coupled with said autonomous personal service robot. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a blood pressure cuff coupled with said autonomous personal service robot wherein said processor is configured to obtain a blood pressure reading using said blood pressure cuff when coupled with said person. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: an RFID tracker configured to find an item or person comprising an RFID tag. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: an ultrasonic audio device coupled with said autonomous personal service robot. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises an environmental sensor configured to take a reading of an environmental measurement detected by said environmental sensor, wherein said out-of-ordinary event comprises said reading falling outside of an acceptable range for said environmental measurement. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said processor is further configured to determine a reasonable stationary period based on a time of day, a current location of said person and a habit of said person, and wherein said out-of-ordinary event comprises said person remaining stationary beyond said reasonable stationary period. 19. An autonomous personal service robot comprising: a frame; a drive system coupled with said frame and configured to move said frame; at least one camera coupled with said frame wherein said at least one camera comprises a pair of cameras that are offset from a horizontal axis between 0 and 90 degrees; a processor coupled with said frame and configured to operate said drive system to move said at least one camera coupled with said frame to dynamically map an environment, said processor further configured to: identify a person stored in memory based on at least one of said person's face, gait, voice and routines using at least one image obtained from said at least one camera; calculate a change in camera position and a change in frame position and move said frame and said at least one camera to follow said person when said person moves to a different location in a room or different room and to track and monitor said person using at least one image obtained from said at least one camera; and determine if an out-of-ordinary event has occurred wherein said out-of-ordinary event comprises a body of said person has remained stationary for a period of time over a threshold, or said person has not taken medications for a second period of time over a second threshold, or a room temperature is below a first temperature or above a second temperature, or a carbon monoxide sample value is above a first carbon monoxide threshold; notify a third-party for intervention based on said out-of-ordinary event. 