A radiation treatment system (100) for accurately delivering radiation to a targeted site within a cancer patient (108) that includes a modular patient support system and a patient positioner (114). The modular patient support system includes a modularly expandable patient pod (200) and at least one immobilization device, such as, for example, a rigid moldable foam cradle (350). The patient pod (200) includes a generally hemi-cylindrical support shell (212) that extends longitudinally between proximal edge (214) and distal edge (216), and transversely between two lateral edges (222, 224). In one embodiment, the lateral edges (222, 224) are tapered to minimize edge effects that result when radiation beams traverse the lateral edges (222, 224).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A patient pod configured to support a patient during a medical treatment, the pod comprising: a semi-cylindrical shell structure configured to be concave upward to provide a patient space, the shell structure extending transversely between a first lateral edge and a second lateral edge and extending longitudinally between a proximal edge and a distal edge, the shell structure comprising a top, concave surface and a bottom, convex surface that faces outward, away from the patient space; the top, concave surface configured to be parallel to the bottom, convex surface, except at the first and second lateral edges; the first and second lateral edges being tapered to reduce the effect of changes in the water equivalency between the shell structure and a space above the shell structure; the top, concave surface comprising a separate, flat, inwardly-facing portion that tapers away from the top, concave surface of the shell structure to a narrower upper tip, the bottom, convex surface comprising a separate, flat, outward facing portion that tapers away from the bottom, convex surface and converges to meet the flat, inwardly-facing portion at the narrower upper tip. 2. The patient pod of claim 1, further comprising: a proximal extension track configured for engagement with any of a number of proximal pod attachments in order to extend the shell structure from the proximal edge; and a distal extension track configured for engagement with any of a number of distal pod attachments in order to extend the shell structure from the distal edge. 3. The patient pod of claim 1, wherein the separate, flat, inwardly-facing portion that tapers away from the top, concave surface of the shell structure to a narrower upper tip and the bottom, convex surface comprising a separate, flat, outward facing portion that tapers away from the bottom, convex surface together comprise a tapered section of the patient pod. 4. The patient pod of claim 3, wherein the patient pod further comprises at least two tapered sections. 5. The patient pod of claim 3, wherein the tapered section is tapered with a gradient from about 0.1 mm water equivalency/mm to about 5 mm water equivalency/mm. 6. The patient pod of claim 3, wherein the tapered section is tapered with a gradient of about 0.5 mm water equivalency/mm. 7. The patient pod of claim 3, further comprising a longitudinally-extending rail configured to cover the tapered section. 8. A patient support configured to position a patient during a medical treatment, the support comprising: a shell extending in a transverse direction between a first tapered lateral edge and a second tapered lateral edge and extending in a longitudinal direction between a proximal edge and a distal edge, the shell comprising a top, concave surface and a bottom, convex surface; the first tapered lateral edge comprising a first separate, flat, inwardly-facing portion that tapers away from the top, concave surface of the shell to a first narrower upper tip and a first separate, flat, outward facing portion that tapers away from the bottom, convex surface of the shell and converges with the first flat, inwardly-facing portion at the first narrower upper tip; and the second tapered lateral edge comprising a second separate, flat, inwardly-facing portion that tapers away from the top, concave surface of the shell to a second narrower upper tip and a second separate, flat, outward facing portion that tapers away from the bottom, convex surface of the shell and converges with the second flat, inwardly-facing portion at the second narrower upper tip. 9. The patient support of claim 8, further comprising a first rail configured to cover the first tapered lateral edge and a second rail configured to cover the second tapered lateral edge. 10. The patient support of claim 9, wherein the first rail and the second rail have a water equivalent thickness of about 0.5 mm of water at locations where a radiation beam passes through. 11. The patient support of claim 9, wherein the first rail comprises an inferior portion that is complementary in shape to the first tapered lateral edge and the second rail comprises an inferior portion that is complementary in shape to the second tapered lateral edge. 12. The patient support of claim 9, wherein the first rail and the second rail each comprise a superior portion that is rounded. 13. The patient support of claim 9, wherein the first rail and the second rail comprise at least one of epoxy, nylon, urethane, and rubber. 14. The patient support of claim 8, further comprising a rail removably connected to at least one of the first tapered lateral edge and the second tapered lateral edge. 15. The patient support of claim 14, further comprising an interlocking receiver to removably secure the rail to the shell. 16. The patient support of claim 8, further comprising means for engaging a shell attachment to extend the shell in the longitudinal direction. 17. The patient support of claim 16, wherein the engaging means comprises an extension track configured for engagement with a shell attachment. 18. The patient support of claim 17, wherein the extension track is configured to engage a shell attachment having an upper lip spaced from a lower lip by a distance that is approximately equal to a distance between an inner diameter and an outer diameter of the extension track. 