A molded hip, ridge or rake shingle is provided that is shaped to fit over angled intersecting planar surface of a roof hip, ridge or rake, by making a shingle precursor and draping it in heated condition over a rack having surfaces that have an included angle therebetween to cool and take form, such that portions of the shingle precursor conform to the surfaces of the rack, at a desired predetermined included angle between the shingle precursor portions, to form a hip, ridge or rake shingle with shingle portions having the desired included angle between the shingle portions. The shingle is formed according to the process, and on an apparatus, to produce the shingles that can be applied to a roof, in an array of shingles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hip, ridge or rake shingle for a hip, ridge or rake edge of a roof having at least two roof surfaces in different planes, wherein the planes intersect at an apex having an included angle that the hip, ridge or rake shingle is to cover, the shingle being of generally inverted "V" shaped configuration and of a given length between a headlap edge and an opposite leading edge and comprising: a first side panel zone and a second side panel zone forming opposite sides of the inverted "V" shaped configuration joined along a central zone of the shingle, the central zone comprising an apex of an angle between the first and second side panel zones, the central zone further comprising a radius of curvature at the apex that varies along a length of the shingle from a first radius at a headlap edge of the shingle to a second radius at a leading exposed edge of the shingle, the second radius being larger than the first radius, with the first and second panel zones each terminating in free edges spaced apart from said central zone. 2. The shingle of claim 1, wherein the included angle between the first and second side panel zones is about 90.degree.. 3. The shingle of claim 1, wherein the included angle between the first and second side panel zones is less than about 90.degree.. 4. The shingle of claim 3, wherein the included angle between the first and second side panel zones is between about 60.degree. and about 85.degree.. 5. The shingle of claim 1, wherein the included angle between the first and second side panel zones is about 70.degree.. 6. The shingle of claim 1, wherein the included angle between the first and second side panel zones is greater than about 90.degree.. 7. The shingle of claim 1, wherein the included angle between the first and second side panel zones is between about 90.degree. and about 130.degree.. 8. The shingle of claim 1, wherein the included angle between the first and second side panel zones is about 110.degree.. 9. An array of hip, ridge or rake shingles according to claim 1, wherein, the array comprises a first shingle underlying a second shingle, each shingle having an exposure zone and a headlap zone, the exposure zone having a lower leading edge and an upper edge, and wherein an outer radius on an outer surface of the first shingle at the upper edge of the exposure zone of the first shingle is approximately the same as the second radius on an inner surface of the second shingle. 