A device, system and method for administering radiation therapy to a tissue surface of a patient utilizes an applicator capable of controlled movement and repositioning over a selected area of tissue, under the control of a computer or controller. A servo-controlled manipulator can effect a raster scan of the desired area, such as an area of the skin, and this can be in any desired pattern such as serpentine, spiral, parallel but unidirectional, or irregular patterns. Preferably a third direction of control is included, i.e. a depth direction, with an appropriate form of depth sensor, a signal from which can be used to adjust the radiation source so that radiation of the tissue surface is consistent over varied contoured.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for treating a surface of living tissue of a patient, comprising: selecting an applicator for irradiating the tissue surface, the applicator including a source for emitting a beam of ionizing radiation, the applicator having a means for translating the beam from the source over a selected area of tissue so as to direct radiation as desired over the area to be treated, and the translating means being connected to a controller programmed with a treatment plan so as to cause the translating means to carry out a desired irradiation treatment, securing the applicator to a frame so as to retain the applicator at a desired position in relation to and distance from the patient tissue to be irradiated, prior to commencing irradiation, inputting to the controller the area of tissue to be treated, and with the controller and as directed by the treatment plan, activating the ionizing radiation source and the translating means to effect scanning the beam from the ionizing source over the area of tissue to be irradiated until essentially a prescribed dose has been delivered over the area of tissue. 2. The method of claim 1, further including moving the source in a Z or depth direction during scanning, under control of the controller, in accordance with measurements of depth from the applicator. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the applicator includes a contacting probe, fixed relative to the source and extending toward the tissue from the source, and including engaging and sweeping the contacting probe against the patient's tissue or a protective sheet covering the tissue as scanning proceeds, following contours of non-planar tissue and moving the source in a Z or depth direction to follow the contours. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of inputting the area of tissue to be treated includes placing the beam translating means to multiple positions that define the boundaries of the area prior to commencing irradiation, thus recording the positions in the controller. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the beam comprises scanning the beam in a spiral pattern over the selected area of tissue. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the beam including scanning the beam in a serpentine pattern over the selected area of tissue. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the beam comprises scanning the beam in a parallel, unidirectional pattern over the selected area of tissue. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the beam comprises tracing a movable element holding the source over a protective sheet which lies on the tissue. 9. The method of claim 1, further including, during scanning of the beam, controlling depth of a movable element holding the source relative to the area of tissue during scanning of the beam over the selected area of tissue. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the applicator includes a depth measurement system connected to the controller and the method including determining distance of tissue from the source using the depth measurement system during scanning, and controlling the beam in accordance with determined distance. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the source of ionizing radiation comprises an electronic controllable x-ray source controllable as to intensity and energy of radiation, and including controlling intensity and energy of the radiation beam during scanning, in accordance with the treatment plan programmed into the controller. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the scanning of the beam includes X-Y control of beam position within a plane, and further includes Z or depth control. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the applicator includes a generally spherical applicator tip surrounding the source, and the applicator substantially not restricting radiation in lateral directions from the source, and the method including engaging and sweeping the applicator tip against the patient's tissue or a protective sheet covering the tissue as scanning proceeds, so that radiation is directed laterally, outwardly and obliquely from the applicator tip as well as directly in line with the applicator's orientation, such radiation passing through an air gap where the radiation is substantially unattenuated, providing a greater accumulated radiation dose from scanning of the applicator. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the generally spherical tip comprises a solid body surrounding the source. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the generally spherical tip has different beam attenuating characteristics in different directions from the source, providing a non-uniform distribution of radiation for different directions as scanning proceeds. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the generally spherical tip has a radius of about 0.5 to 2 cm. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the scanning of the beam comprises manipulating an end member holding the source as to tilt from vertical and as to rotation about a vertical axis, thus including directing the beam obliquely toward the surface during scanning. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the scanning of the beam further includes range adjustment by which the end member with the source is moved on a longitudinal axis of the end member toward or away from an axis of tilt of the end member. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the end member is contained coaxially and slidably within a sleeve and is controlled by a mechanical manipulator via a sheath-encased wire. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the beam includes manipulating the source using a mechanical manipulator connected to movable sliding elements of the applicator, secured to an end member containing the source, and the sliding elements being connected to the mechanical manipulator by control wires slidable within sheaths. 