A contact tip for a welding torch in accordance with the present invention includes an elongated, generally cylindrical body having a front contact end and an opposite rear retaining end. A central aperture is defined by an inner wall of the body. The aperture extends through the body from an opening at the rear retaining end to an opening at the front contact end. The aperture has a front portion and a wider diameter portion adjacent the front portion. The front portion generally has a length that is shorter than a length of the wider diameter portion. A consumable electrode wire fed through the aperture contacts the inner wall in the front portion but does not contact the inner wall in the wider diameter portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combination of a contact tip with a retaining head for a welding torch, wherein: said contact tip includes: an elongated, generally cylindrical body having a front contact end and an opposite rear retaining end; and a central aperture defined by an inner wall of said body, said aperture extending through said body from an opening at said rear end to an opening at said front end; said aperture having a front portion and a wider diameter elongated portion adjacent said front portion, said front portion generally having a length that is shorter than a length of said wider diameter portion; said retaining head has a front end, a rear end, and an opening at said front end; said contact tip being retained in said opening at said front end of said retaining head; said contact tip and said retaining head together define a passageway for said consumable electrode wire; said passageway including said front portion of said contact tip aperture, a rear portion disposed in said retaining head, and a middle portion at least partially defined by said wider diameter portion of said contact tip aperture; said front portion of said passageway having a length that is shorter than a length of said middle portion; wherein a consumable electrode wire fed through said passageway does not contact said retaining head and contact tip in said middle portion of said passageway and only contacts said retaining head and said contact tip in said front and rear portions of said passageway. 2. A welding torch assembly comprising: a retaining head; and a contact tip engaged with said retaining head; said retaining head and said contact tip together defining a passageway for a consumable electrode wire; said passageway including a front portion, a rear portion, and a middle portion between said front and rear portions; said front portion being formed by said contact tip, and said rear portion being formed by said retaining head; said middle portion having a diameter and a length that is larger than a length and a width of said front and rear portions; said middle portion of said passageway being formed by said contact tip and said retaining head together; wherein a consumable electrode wire fed through said passageway does not contact said retaining head and contact tip in said middle portion of said passageway and only contacts said retaining head and said contact tip in said front and rear portions of said passageway. 3. The welding torch assembly of claim 2, wherein the length of said front portion is generally between 1.5 mm and 15 mm. 4. The welding torch assembly of claim 2, including a rear insert inserted into said retaining head, said rear insert including a central bore extending therethrough, said bore of said rear insert at least partially forming said rear portion of said passageway and being generally continuous with said middle portion of said passageway. 5. The welding torch assembly of claim 2, including a front insert inserted into said contact tip, said front insert including a central bore extending therethrough, said bore of said front insert at least partially forming said front portion of said passageway and being generally continuous with said middle portion of said passageway. 6. The combination of claim 1, wherein said aperture has a generally stepped cross-sectional shape along an axial direction. 7. The combination of claim 1, wherein: the diameter of said front portion is generally 2% to 10% greater than a diameter of said consumable electrode wire that is fed through said aperture; the diameter of said rear portion is generally 5% to 15% greater than the diameter of said consumable electrode wire; and the diameter of said middle portion is at least generally 0.15 mm larger than the diameter of said front portion. 8. The combination of claim 1, wherein: the length of said front portion is generally between 1.5 mm and 15 mm; a length of said rear portion is generally between 1.5 mm and 15 mm; and the length of said middle portion is greater than the length of said front portion and said rear portion. 9. The combination of claim 1, wherein the diameter of said wider diameter portion is variable. 10. The combination of claim 1, wherein said body is formed of two interlocking members. 11. The combination of claim 1, wherein the length of said front portion is generally between 1.5 mm and 15 mm. 12. The combination of claim 1, wherein said middle portion is defined by said wider diameter portion of said contact tip aperture and said opening of said retaining head. 13. The combination of claim 1, including a rear insert inserted into said retaining head, said rear insert including a central bore extending therethrough, said bore of said rear insert forming a portion of said passageway and being generally continuous with said middle portion of said passageway. 14. The combination of claim 1, including a front insert inserted into said opening at said rear end of said contact tip body, said front insert including a central bore extending therethrough, said bore of said front insert partially defining said front portion of said passageway and being generally continuous with said middle portion of said passageway. 