A method for repeatably fabricating a test specimen assembly comprising a pair of fiber-reinforced plastic (FRP) test specimens adhesively bonded together, the bonded joint having respective areas of substantially different, but consistent variable adhesive bond strengths suitable as a calibration standard. The method comprises fabricating a first FRP test specimen having a bonding surface with first and second areas that have substantially different bonded joint performance-governing characteristics and then using adhesive to bond the bonding surface of the first FRP test specimen to the bonding surface of a second FRP test specimen. The different bonded joint performance-governing characteristics are achieved by treating first and second areas of the surface of the first FRP test specimen using different respective surface preparation techniques.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for repeatably fabricating a test specimen assembly having controlled variable bond strengths, comprising the following steps: (a) fabricating a first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen having a bonding surface, wherein a first area of said bonding surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen has a first bonded joint performance-governing characteristic, while a second area of said bonding surface, not overlapping with said first area, of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen has a second bonded joint performance-governing characteristic different than said first bonded joint performance-governing characteristic; (b) fabricating a second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen having a bonding surface; (c) placing said bonding surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen in overlapping relationship with said bonding surface of said second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen with adhesive therebetween, the adhesive being in contact with said first and second areas of said bonding surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen and with said bonding surface of said second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen; and (d) curing the adhesive to bond said first and second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimens together. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of selecting first and second values of a plasma process parameter, said first value being different than said second value, wherein step (a) comprises the following steps performed in the order listed: laying up a plurality of plies of fiber-reinforced plastic material; curing said lay-up of fiber-reinforced plastic material; moving a plasma jet to scan over said first area while said plasma process parameter equals said first value; and moving a plasma jet to scan over said second area while said plasma process parameter equals said second value. 3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein said plasma process parameter is selected from the group comprising: travel speed of a plasma jet source, energy of a plasma jet source, and distance of a plasma jet source from said surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of selecting first and second values of a laser process parameter, said first value being different than said second value, wherein step (a) comprises the following steps performed in the order listed: laying up a plurality of plies of fiber-reinforced plastic material; curing said lay-up of fiber-reinforced plastic material; moving a laser beam to scan over said first area while said laser process parameter equals said first value; and moving a laser beam to scan over said second area while said laser process parameter equals said second value. 5. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein said laser process parameter is selected from the group comprising: power output of a pulsed laser beam source, pulse frequency of said pulsed laser beam, pulse repetition rate, diameter of said pulsed laser beam and step index of the laser beam spot. 6. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of selecting first and second peel ply materials, said first peel ply material being different than said second peel ply material, wherein step (a) comprises the following steps: laying up a plurality of plies of fiber-reinforced plastic material; covering said lay-up with said first peel ply material in said first area; covering said lay-up with said second peel ply material in said second area; curing said lay-up of fiber-reinforced plastic material; removing said first peel ply material; and removing said second peel ply material. 7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein said first peel-ply material comprises filaments made of a first polymeric material and said second peel-ply material comprises filaments made of a second polymeric material different than said first polymeric material. 8. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein said first and second peel ply materials comprise filaments made of a polymeric material, further comprising the step of soaking at least one of said first and second peel ply materials in a solution of a release agent. 9. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein one of said first and second peel ply materials has an inert, heat-stabilized cross-linked polymer finish and the other does not. 10. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein said first and second peel ply materials comprise filaments made of a polymeric material, further comprising the steps of soaking said first peel ply material in a solution of a release agent having a first concentration for a first soaking time, and soaking said second peel ply material in a solution of said release agent having a second concentration for a second soaking of time, wherein said first and second concentrations and said first and second soaking times are selected to achieve different levels of contamination by said release agent in said first and second peel ply materials. 11. A test specimen assembly fabricated by a process comprising the following steps: (a) fabricating a first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen having a bonding surface, wherein a first area of said bonding surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen has a first bonded joint performance-governing characteristic, while a second area of said bonding surface, not overlapping with said first area, of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen has a second bonded joint performance-governing characteristic different than said first bonded joint performance-governing characteristic; (b) fabricating a second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen having a bonding surface; (c) placing said bonding surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen in overlapping relationship with said bonding surface of said second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen with adhesive therebetween, the adhesive being in contact with said first and second areas of said bonding surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen and with said bonding surface of said second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen; and (d) curing the adhesive to bond said first and second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimens together. 12. The test specimen assembly as recited in claim 11, wherein the adhesive bond in said first area has a first adhesive bond strength and the adhesive bond in said second area has a second adhesive bond strength that differs from said first adhesive bond strength, wherein said difference between said first and second adhesive bond strengths is detectable by a destructive testing technique, but is not detectable via ultrasonic nondestructive inspection techniques. 13. A fiber-reinforced plastic test standard comprising first and second fiber-reinforced plastic laminates having opposing surfaces bonded by cured adhesive, the opposing surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic laminate having a first area with a first set of surface characteristics and a second area with a second set of surface characteristics different than said first set of surface characteristics, the opposing surface of said second fiber-reinforced plastic laminate having first and second areas with uniform surface characteristics, and the first and second areas of the surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic laminate respectively confronting the first and second areas of the surface of said second fiber-reinforced plastic laminate, the cured adhesive between said first areas forming a first adhesive bond having a first adhesive bond strength and the cured adhesive between said second areas forming a second adhesive bond having a second adhesive bond strength which is different than said first adhesive bond strength. 14. The standard as recited in claim 13, wherein the difference between said first and second adhesive bond strengths is detectable by a destructive testing technique, but is not detectable via ultrasonic nondestructive inspection techniques. 15. The standard as recited in claim 13, wherein said first adhesive bond strength is less than said second adhesive bond strength by at least 25% of said second adhesive bond strength. 16. A method for fabricating a test specimen assembly, comprising the following steps: (a) applying a first surface treatment process over a first area of a surface of a first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen; (b) applying a second surface treatment process over a second area of said surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen, wherein each of said first and second surface treatment processes comprises a process parameter, said process parameter for said first surface treatment process being equal to a first value, and said process parameter for said second surface treatment process being equal to a second value that is different than said first value; (c) placing said treated surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen in overlapping relationship with a surface of a second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen with adhesive therebetween, the adhesive being in contact with said first and second areas of said treated surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen and with said surface of said second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen; and (d) curing the adhesive to bond said first and second fiber-reinforced plastic test specimens together. 17. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein said process parameter is a plasma process parameter, said first surface treatment process comprises moving a plasma jet to scan over said first area of said surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen while said plasma process parameter equals said first value, and said second surface treatment process comprises moving a plasma jet to scan over said second area of said surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen while said plasma process parameter equals said second value. 18. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein said plasma process parameter is selected from the group comprising: travel speed of a plasma jet source, energy of a plasma jet source, and distance of a plasma jet source from said surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen. 19. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein said process parameter is a laser process parameter, said first surface treatment process comprises moving a laser beam to scan over said first area of said surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen while said laser process parameter equals said first value, and said second surface treatment process comprises moving a laser beam to scan over said second area of said surface of said first fiber-reinforced plastic test specimen while said laser process parameter equals said second value. 20. The method as recited in claim 19, wherein said laser process parameter is selected from the group comprising: power output of a pulsed laser beam source, pulse frequency of said pulsed laser beam, pulse repetition rate, diameter of said pulsed laser beam and step index of the laser beam spot. 