In one aspect, the invention is directed to polypeptides having an amylase and/or glucoamylase activity, polynucleotides encoding the polypeptides, and methods for making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the polypeptides of the invention can be used as amylases, for example, alpha amylases, to catalyze the hydrolysis of polysaccharide, oligosaccharide or starch into sugars. In one aspect, the invention provides delayed release compositions comprising an desired ingredient coated by a latex polymer coating. In alternative embodiments, enzymes are used to make biofuels, e.g., ethanol, butanol, propanol, or a gasoline-ethanol mix, including a bioethanol, biopropanol, biobutanol, or a biodiesel, or for any form of fuel or biomass processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity, selected from the group consisting of: (a) a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity comprising a nucleic acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:25; (b) a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity comprising a nucleic acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:25, or a fragment thereof, wherein the fragment encodes a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity; (c) a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity that hybridizes under at least high stringency conditions to the full length nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:25, wherein high stringency conditions are defined as prehybridization and hybridization at 42.degree. C. in 5.times.SSPE, 0.3% SDS, 200 .mu.g/ml sheared and denatured salmon sperm DNA, and 50% formamide and washing using 6.times.SSC, 0.5% SDS at 50.degree. C.; (d) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:26; (e) a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:26, or a fragment thereof, wherein the fragment has glucoamylase activity; (f) the nucleic acid of (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity but lacking a signal sequence or a carbohydrate binding module; (g) the nucleic acid of (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) encoding a polypeptide having glucoamylase activity, and further comprising a heterologous sequence; (h) the nucleic acid sequence of (g), wherein the heterologous sequence comprises a sequence encoding a heterologous signal sequence, carbohydrate binding module, catalytic domain (CD), or a combination thereof, or the heterologous signal sequence, carbohydrate binding module, or catalytic domain (CD) is derived from another amylase enzyme, or a non-amylase enzyme; or (i) a nucleic acid sequence fully complementary to (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), or (h). 2. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the glucoamylase activity comprises hydrolyzing glucosidic bonds, or hydrolyzing glucosidic bonds in a polysaccharide, an oligosaccharide, or a starch, or optionally wherein the glucoamylase activity comprises cleaving a maltose or a D-glucose unit from non-reducing end of a polysaccharide, an oligosaccharide, or a starch, or optionally wherein the glucosidic bonds comprise an .alpha.-1,4-glucosidic bond or an .alpha.-1,6-glucosidic bond. 3. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the glucoamylase activity is thermostable or thermotolerant. 4. A vector, an expression cassette, or a cloning vehicle comprising: (a) a nucleic acid comprising the nucleic acid sequence of claim 1; (b) the vector, expression cassette, or cloning vehicle of (a), wherein the nucleic acid is operably linked to a promoter; (c) the vector, expression cassette, or cloning vehicle of (b), wherein the promoter is a plant promoter or a viral promoter; (d) the vector, expression cassette or cloning vehicle of (c), wherein the plant promoter is a corn seed embryo-specific promoter; a corn seed endosperm-specific promoter; or a rice seed endosperm-specific promoter. 5. A plant cell or an isolated host cell comprising a nucleic acid comprising the nucleic acid sequence of claim 1. 6. A method of producing a recombinant polypeptide comprising the steps of: (a) providing a nucleic acid, wherein the nucleic acid comprises the nucleic acid sequence of claim 1; and (b) expressing the nucleic acid of step (a) under conditions that allow expression of a polypeptide, thereby producing a recombinant polypeptide. 