An apparatus and method is described for determining the location of a object inside a patient. Three dimensional image data of the patient is obtained by an imaging modality such as a C-arm X-ray device. The same or another imaging modality may be used to obtain projection radiographic images, having a coordinate system that can be registered with respect to that of the three dimensional image. The location of one or more features of a medical treatment device such as a needle or a catheter introduced into the imaging filed of view is determined either by an operator or by image analysis, in at least two projection radiographic images, and the position of the feature located in the three-dimensional volume. The projection on a radiographic image of a vector joining a first and a second position is used to assist in guiding the medical treatment device inside of the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for visualizing the position of an object, comprising: a first imaging modality capable of producing projection images from at least two different orientations with respect to the object; a second imaging modality capable of producing three-dimensional images of a volume including the object; a processor configured to: identify a first distinguishing feature of the object in the projection images taken from at least two different orientations; identify a first distinguishing feature of the volume in the three-dimensional images; compute the three-dimensional location of the first distinguishing feature of the object using the projection images taken from at least two different orientations and the first distinguishing feature of the volume in a three dimensional coordinate system; compute a first vector representative of an initial path between the first distinguishing feature of the object and the first distinguishing feature of the volume; and display a projection of the first vector on at least one of the three-dimensional images or the projection images; and a sensor configured to monitor a position of the first distinguishing feature of the object, wherein the processor is further configured to compute a second vector representative of a modified path between the first distinguishing feature of the object and the first distinguishing feature of the volume when the sensor determines that the position of the first distinguishing feature of the object has deviated from the initial path, and wherein the processor is further configured to display a projection of the second vector on at least one of the three-dimensional images or the projection images. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first imaging modality and the second imaging modality are the same device. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first imaging modality or the second imaging modality is a C-arm X-ray device. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the C-arm X-ray device is mounted to a robot. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a display capable of displaying a fluoroscopic or angiographic image. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the three-dimensional location of a second distinguishing feature of the object and to compute a third vector representative of a distance between the locations of one of the first distinguishing features and the second distinguishing feature. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the third vector and a projection of the third vector are displayed on a fluoroscopic or an angiographic image. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coordinate systems of the first imaging modality and the second imaging modality are registered with respect to each other. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional coordinate system is fixed with respect to a patient. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first distinguishing feature of the object is a tip of a needle, and the first distinguishing feature of the volume is a target point on a surface of an organ of a patient. 11. A method of guiding an object in a patient, the method comprising: providing a first imaging modality configured to obtain three dimensional radiographic data; providing a second imaging modality configured to obtain radiographic images of a patient or portion thereof from at least two orientations, the images of the second imaging modality being registered or registerable with the images of the first imaging modality; providing an image display device; introducing an object into the field of view of the second imaging modality; identifying a first distinguishing feature of the object in at least two radiographic images; determining the three-dimensional location of a first position of the first distinguishing feature of the object from projection images taken from the radiographic images of the patient or portion thereof from at least two orientations and determining the location of a first distinguishing feature of the patient in a three-dimensional coordinate system; computing a vector between the first position of the first distinguishing feature of the object and the first distinguishing feature of the patient, and displaying the vector on the three dimensional radiographic data or a projection of the vector on a radiographic image; moving the first distinguishing feature of the object to a second position; determining the three-dimensional location of the second position of the first distinguishing feature of the object from protection images taken from the radiographic images of the patient or portion thereof from at least two orientations; determining if the three-dimensional location of the second position of the first distinguishing feature of the object lies within a path defined by the vector between the first position of the first distinguishing feature of the object and the first distinguishing feature of the patient; and computing a vector between the second position of the first distinguishing feature of the object and the first distinguishing feature of the patient if it is determined that the second position of the first distinguishing feature of the object lies outside of the path defined by the vector between the first position of the first distinguishing feature of the object and the first distinguishing feature of the patient. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first imaging modality and the second imaging modality are the same device. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the radiographic image produced by the second imaging modality is at least one of a fluoroscopic or an angiographic image. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising automatically adjusting an orientation of the object when it is determined that the second position of the first distinguishing feature of the object lies outside of the path defined by the vector between the first distinguishing feature of the object and the first distinguishing feature of the patient. 15. A software product, recorded on a non-transitory machine readable media, that configures a computer to perform a method of visualizing guiding an object, the method comprising: obtaining three-dimensional imaging data of at least a portion of a patient; obtaining projection radiographic images of a volume including an object from at least two differing orientations; identifying a first distinguishing feature of an object by one of displaying the radiographs or by automated image analysis; identifying a target location in the patient; and determining the three-dimensional location of the first distinguishing feature of the object from the projection radiographic images of the volume including the object from at least two different orientations; computing a vector between the first distinguishing feature and the target location in the patient, and computing a projection of the vector on a fluoroscopic or radiographic image; moving the object along a linear dimension thereof; identifying a second distinguishing feature of the object, the second distinguishing feature being a new position of the object resulting from moving the object; determining if the second distinguishing feature of the object has deviated from a path defined by the vector between the first distinguishing feature of the object and the target location in the patient; and computing a vector between the second distinguishing feature of the object and the target location in the patient when it is determined that the second distinguishing feature of the object has deviated from the path defined by the vector between the first distinguishing feature of the object and the target location in the patient. 16. The software product of claim 15, wherein the first distinguishing feature of the object is a tip of a needle and the target location in the patient is a target point on a surface of an organ of a patient, and further comprising adjusting the orientation of the tip of the needle when it is determined that the second distinguishing feature of the object has deviated from the path defined by the vector between the first distinguishing feature of the object and the target location in the patient. 17. The software product of claim 15, further comprising automatically adjusting an orientation of the object when it is determined that the second distinguishing feature of the object has deviated from the path defined by the vector between the first distinguishing feature of the object and the target location in the patient. 