A robotic surgery system comprises a mounting base, a plurality of surgical instruments, and an articulate support assembly. Each instrument is insertable into a patient through an associated minimally invasive aperture to a desired internal surgical site. The articulate support assembly movably supports the instruments relative to the base. The support generally comprises an orienting platform, a platform linkage movably supporting the orienting platform relative to the base, and a plurality of manipulators mounted to the orienting platform, wherein each manipulator movably supports an associated instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgery system comprising: an orienting platform; a platform linkage movably supporting the orienting platform, the orienting platform being rotatably coupled to the platform linkage; and a plurality of arms coupled to the orienting platform, each arm movably supporting an associated manipulator and including releasably fixable links and joints such that the arm is fixable in a plurality of configurations, each manipulator movably supporting a surgical instrument. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a mounting base, wherein the mounting base comprises a ceiling-height mounting base so as to permit the platform linkage to extend generally downward from the mounting base. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the platform linkage accommodates translation of the orienting platform in three dimensions. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the platform linkage accommodates rotation of the orienting platform about one axis. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the orienting platform comprises four hubs rotationally coupleable to the plurality of arms and a fifth hub coupleable to the platform linkage, wherein the fifth hub is aligned with a pivot point and accommodates rotation of the orienting platform about the pivot point. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein each arm accommodates translation of the fixable links and joints in one dimension. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein each arm accommodates rotation of the fixable links and joints about two or three axes. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein each arm has no more than four degrees of freedom. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein the system comprises three arms for movably supporting instrument manipulators and one arm for movably supporting an image capture device manipulator. 10. The system of claim 5, wherein at least one arm includes at least one balanced, fixable, jointed parallelogram linkage structure extending between a pair of adjacent fixable rotational joints, the jointed parallelogram structure accommodating motion in a generally vertical direction, and the adjacent rotational joints accommodating pivotal motion about vertical axes. 11. The system of claim 5, further comprising a brake system coupled to the articulate support assembly, the brake system inhibiting articulation of the fixable links and joints previously configured in at least substantially fixed configuration, the brake system including a brake release actuator for releasing the fixable links and joints to a configuration in which the fixable links and joints can be articulated. 12. The robotic surgery system of claim 5, further comprising a joint sensor system coupling a plurality of the fixable links and joints to a servomechanism, the sensor system generating joint configuration signals, wherein the servomechanism includes a computer and wherein the joint sensor system transmits the joint configuration signals to the computer. 13. The robotic surgery system of claim 12, further comprising a mounting base, wherein the computer calculates a coordinate system transformation between a reference coordinate system affixed relative to the mounting base and the instruments using the joint configuration signals. 14. The system of claim 5, wherein at least one manipulator is mechanically constrained so that a manipulator base is at a fixed angle relative to horizontal. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one manipulator is angularly offset relative to horizontal in a range from about 45 degrees to about 50 degrees. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one manipulator is angularly offset relative to horizontal by about 15 degrees. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one manipulator is angularly offset relative to horizontal in a range from about 65 degrees to about 75 degrees. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one manipulator comprises an offset remote center linkage for constraining spherical pivoting of the instrument about a pivot point in space. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the offset remote center manipulator comprises an articulate linkage assembly having a manipulator base rotationally coupled to a parallelogram linkage base for rotation about a first axis, the parallelogram linkage base coupled to an instrument holder by a plurality of driven links and joints, the driven links and joints defining a parallelogram so as to constrain an elongate shaft of the instrument relative to a pivot point when the instrument is mounted to the instrument holder and the shaft is moved in at least one degree of freedom, wherein the first axis and a first side of the parallelogram adjacent the parallelogram linkage base intersect the shaft at the pivot point, and the first side of the parallelogram is angularly offset from the first axis. 20. The system of claim 5, further comprising a display coupleable to the orienting platform. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the display comprises an interactive monitor. 22. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein the platform linkage comprises a linear rail and a carriage portion coupled to and linearly slideable with respect to the linear rail, the orienting platform being rotationally coupled to the carriage portion. 23. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of arms is rotationally coupled to the orienting platform. 24. The robotic surgery system of claim 23, wherein each of the plurality of arms is rotationally coupled to the orienting platform to rotate around a unique rotational axis, the rotational axes of the plurality of arms being parallel to each other. 25. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, each of the plurality of arms comprising a proximal end and a distal end, each proximal end being coupled to the orienting platform, each distal end being moveable in a vertical direction relative to the platform linkage. 26. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, wherein at least one manipulator comprises an offset remote center linkage for constraining spherical pivoting of the instrument about a pivot point in space. 27. The robotic surgery system of claim 1, the links and joints comprising links coupled in series by joints. 