An articulated surgical instrument for enhancing the performance of minimally invasive surgical procedures. The instrument has a high degree of dexterity, low friction, low inertia and good force reflection. A unique cable and pulley drive system operates to reduce friction and enhance force reflection. A unique wrist mechanism operates to enhance surgical dexterity compared to standard laparoscopic instruments. The system is optimized to reduce the number of actuators required and thus produce a fully functional articulated surgical instrument of minimum size.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated surgical instrument for minimally invasive surgery comprising: a sliding bracket coupled to at least one guide rail, the sliding bracket configured to slide along the longitudinal axis of the at least one guide rail; an elongate support member having a proximal end coupled to the sliding bracket and to the at least one guide rail, the support member being movable along its longitudinal axis by sliding the sliding bracket relative to the at least one guide rail; a wrist member coupled to the distal end of the elongate support member, the wrist member rotatable relative to the elongate support member about a first axis; a surgical end effector coupled to the wrist member, the surgical end effector comprising a first work member rotatable relative to the wrist member about a second axis; and actuators disposed at the sliding bracket, the actuators coupled to the wrist member by cables to rotate the wrist member about the first axis, the actuators further coupled to the first work member by cables to rotate the first work member about the second axis. 2. The instrument of claim 1, the first axis being perpendicular to the second axis. 3. The instrument of claim 2, further comprising an auxiliary actuator coupled to the proximal end of the elongate support member by an auxiliary cable, the auxiliary actuator disposed on the sliding bracket, the auxiliary actuator rotating the support member about its longitudinal axis relative to the sliding bracket by pulling the auxiliary cable. 4. The instrument of claim 1, further comprising a mounting bracket coupled to the sliding bracket, the mounting bracket adapted to releasably connect the articulated surgical instrument to a positioning mechanism. 5. The instrument of claim 4, the positioning mechanism comprising a remote centering mechanism for pivoting said instrument about a minimally invasive surgical entry point. 6. The instrument of claim 1, the actuators disposed at the sliding bracket being configurable to translate the support member along its longitudinal axis. 7. A surgical instrument comprising: a sliding bracket a sliding bracket coupled to at least one guide rail, the sliding bracket configured to slide along the longitudinal axis of the at least one guide rail; an elongate support member having a proximal end coupled to the sliding bracket and to the at least one guide rail, the support member being movable along its longitudinal axis by sliding the sliding bracket relative to the at least one guide rail; a wrist member coupled to the distal end of the elongate support member, the wrist member rotatable relative to the elongate support member about a first axis; a surgical end effector coupled to the wrist member, the surgical end effector comprising a first work member rotatable relative to the wrist member about a second axis; pulley means disposed at the wrist member for moving the wrist member and the surgical end effector; and actuation means disposed at the sliding bracket for selectively actuating the pulley means. 8. The instrument of claim 7, the actuation means further comprising means for driving the elongate support member to cause the support member to move along its longitudinal axis. 9. A method of actuating a surgical instrument, the surgical instrument comprising a sliding bracket coupled to at least one guide rail, the instrument further comprising an elongate support member having a proximal end coupled to the sliding bracket and to the at least one guide rail, a wrist member coupled to the distal end of the elongate support member, and a surgical end effector coupled to the wrist member, the surgical end effector comprising a first work member, the method comprising: moving the support member along its longitudinal axis by sliding the sliding bracket relative to the at least one guide rail; selectively actuating a plurality of actuators disposed at the sliding bracket; rotating the wrist member relative to the elongate support member about a first axis in response to said selective actuation; and rotating the first work member relative to the wrist member about a second axis in response to said selective actuation. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising translating the support member along its longitudinal axis in response to said selective actuation. 