The technology described herein generally relates to microfluidic cartridges configured to amplify and detect polynucleotides extracted from multiple biological samples in parallel. The technology includes a microfluidic substrate, comprising: a plurality of sample lanes, wherein each of the plurality of sample lanes comprises a microfluidic network having, in fluid communication with one another: an inlet; a first valve and a second valve; a first channel leading from the inlet, via the first valve, to a reaction chamber; and a second channel leading from the reaction chamber, via the second valve, to a vent.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of carrying out amplification independently on a plurality of polynucleotide-containing samples, the method comprising: introducing the plurality of samples separately into a microfluidic cartridge; isolating the samples in the microfluidic cartridge; placing the microfluidic cartridge in thermal communication with an array of independent heaters; and amplifying polynucleotides in the plurality of samples by independent application of successive temperature cycles to each sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the cartridge contains a plurality of reaction chambers. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the reaction chambers are configured to permit thermal cycling of the plurality of samples independently of one another. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein isolating the samples in the microfluidic cartridge comprises isolating the samples in the plurality of reaction chambers. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein isolating the samples in the plurality of reaction chambers comprises moving the plurality of samples independently of one another into the respective plurality of reaction chambers. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein isolating the samples in the plurality of reaction chambers further comprises: moving the plurality of samples independently of one another into the respective plurality of reaction chambers; detecting the presence of the plurality of samples in the reaction chambers; and closing a valve on the downstream side of the reaction chamber and closing a valve on the upstream side of the reaction chambers. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein detecting the presence of the plurality of samples in the reaction chambers comprises positioning a LED and photodiode in optical communication with reaction chambers. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein amplifying polynucleotides in the plurality of samples comprises independently activating one or more heaters in independent thermal communication with each sample. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein introducing the plurality of samples separately into a microfluidic cartridge comprises: placing a plurality of pipettes containing the samples into a plurality of inlets in the microfluidic cartridge; and dispensing the samples independently from the plurality of pipettes into separate of said plurality of inlets. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of samples are introduced into the microfluidic cartridge simultaneously. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of samples are introduced into the microfluidic sample successively. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting the presence of amplified polynucleotides in the plurality of samples. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein detecting the presence of amplified polynucleotides comprises detecting a fluorescence signal from the amplified polynucleotides. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein detecting a fluorescence signal from the amplified polynucleotides comprises passing a scanning read head over the microfluidic cartridge, the scanning read head comprising a plurality of detectors having a LED and photodiode. 15. A method of carrying out amplification independently on a plurality of polynucleotide-containing samples, the method comprising: introducing the plurality of samples in to a microfluidic cartridge, wherein the cartridge has a plurality of reaction chambers configured to permit thermal cycling of the plurality of samples independently of one another; moving the plurality of samples independently of one another into the respective plurality of reaction chambers; isolating the samples within the plurality of reaction chambers; placing the microfluidic cartridge in thermal communication with an array of independent heaters; and amplifying polynucleotides contained within the plurality of samples, by application of successive temperature cycles independently to the reaction chambers. 