A robotic mount is configured to move an entertainment element such as a video display, a video projector or a staircase. The robotic mount is movable in three-dimensions, whereby the associated entertainment element is moveable in three-dimensional space. In one embodiment, a unitary display comprises a plurality of closely spaced individual displays which are mounted to robotic mounts, whereby the configuration of the unitary display may be altered by changing the position of one or more of the displays relative to the others.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic staircase capable of transporting one or more users from a first location to a second location comprising: a robotic mount comprising: a base; a moveable support connected to said base, said moveable support comprising at least a first portion, a second portion and a third portion, each of said first, second and third portions movable relative to one another and each portion moveable about at least one axis, whereby said moveable support is configured to move about each of an x axis, a y axis and a z axis which are all perpendicular to one another; at least one motor configured to move said first, second and third portions of said moveable support; an electronic controller configured to control said at least one motor to move said moveable support; and a staircase comprising a structure having a top end and a bottom end and at least two fixed steps therebetween which may be traversed up or down by a user to move between said top end and said bottom end, said top end being at an elevation which is higher than an elevation of said bottom end, said staircase mounted to said movable support of said robotic mount; whereby said staircase is movable in the three dimensions about said x axis, y axis and z axis, permitting said staircase to be moved from at least a first location in which said top end or bottom end of said staircase is positioned adjacent to a first support, thus permitting said user to move between said staircase and said first support, and a second location in which said top end or bottom end is positioned adjacent to a second support, thus permitting said user to move between said staircase and said second support. 2. The robotic staircase in accordance with claim 1 said first portion of said moveable support comprises a main support rotatable relative to said base about at least said y axis, said second portion comprises an arm mounted to said main support and moveable about at least said z axis, and said third portion comprises a head mounted to said arm and moveable about at least said x axis. 3. The robotic staircase in accordance with claim 1 wherein staircase structure is mounted to said head of said moveable support. 4. The robotic staircase in accordance with claim 1 wherein said base is mounted to a floor of a structure. 5. The robotic staircase in accordance with claim 1 further including machine readable code executable by said electronic controller to cause said at least one motor to move said moveable support to move said staircase in a pre-selected pattern of movement in said three dimensions. 6. The robotic staircase in accordance with claim 5 wherein said machine readable code is configured to cause said controller to move said moveable support with music. 7. A movable staircase capable of transporting one or more users from a first location to a second location comprising: a robotic staircase mount, said robotic staircase mount comprising: a base; a moveable support connected to said base, said moveable support configured for movement relative to a first axis, a second axis, and a third axis, said first, second and third axes being perpendicular to one another; at least one motor configured to move said moveable support relative to said first, second and third axes; and a motor control configured to control said at least one motor; and a staircase having a top end and a bottom end and at least two steps there between which may be traversed up or down by a user to move between said top end and said bottom end, said staircase mounted to said moveable support of said robotic staircase mount, whereby said staircase is movable in three-dimensions by moving said robotic staircase mount, permitting said staircase to be moved from at least a first location in which said top end or bottom end of said staircase is positioned adjacent to a first support, thus permitting said user to move between said staircase and said first support, and a second location in which said top end or bottom end is positioned adjacent to a second support, thus permitting said user to move between said staircase and said second support. 8. The movable staircase in accordance with claim 7 wherein said moveable support comprises at least a first member movable about said first axis, at least a second member movable about said second axis, and at least a third member movable about said third axis. 9. The movable staircase in accordance with claim 7 wherein said moveable support comprises a main support connected to said base and movable relative to said base about said first axis, a lower arm connected to said main support and movable about said second axis, an upper arm connected to said lower arm and movable about said second axis, and a head mounted to said upper arm, said staircase mounted to said head and said head movable about at least said third axis. 