A transmission apparatus includes a drive member, a driven member, and an at least partially flexible transmission coupled to the drive member and the driven member. The flexible transmission is configured to cause movement of the driven member in response to movement of the drive member. The flexible transmission includes a first tension element having a first portion coupled to the drive member, a second portion coupled to the driven member, and an intermediate portion between the first portion and the second portion. The transmission apparatus also includes an adjustment member that engages the intermediate portion of the first tension element. The adjustment member is configured to be adjusted to vary a tension force applied to the first tension element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transmission apparatus, comprising: a drive member; a driven member; an at least partially flexible transmission coupled to the drive member and the driven member and configured to cause movement of the driven member in response to movement of the drive member, wherein the flexible transmission includes a first tension element having a first portion coupled to the drive member, a second portion coupled to the driven member, and an intermediate portion between the first portion and the second portion; and an adjustment member that engages the intermediate portion of the first tension element, wherein the adjustment member is configured to be adjusted to vary a tension force applied to the first tension element, wherein the flexible transmission includes a second tension element that is not engaged by the adjustment member, wherein the second tension element includes a portion coupled to the drive member and a portion coupled to the driven member, and wherein the drive member is disposed between the driven member and the adjustment member. 2. The transmission apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible transmission is configured such that a tension force applied to the second tension element is varied when the adjustment member is adjusted to vary the tension force applied to the first tension element. 3. The transmission apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustment member includes at least a portion configured to move in a first direction and a second direction, wherein the first and second directions are along at least one of a line and an arc. 4. The transmission apparatus of claim 3, wherein the adjustment member is configured to increase the tension force applied to the first tension element when the adjustment member moves in the first direction. 5. The transmission apparatus of claim 3, wherein the adjustment member is configured to decrease the tension force applied to the first tension element when the adjustment member moves in the second direction. 6. The transmission apparatus of claim 3, wherein the portion of the adjustment member comprises a pulley. 7. The transmission apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustment member is configured to move along a predetermined axis. 8. The transmission apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adjustment member is configured to rotate about a predetermined axis. 9. The transmission apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first tension element and the second tension element each comprise a cord. 10. A transmission apparatus, comprising: a drive member; a driven member; an at least partially flexible transmission coupled to the drive member and the driven member and configured to cause movement of the driven member in response to movement of the drive member, wherein the flexible transmission includes a first tension element having a first portion coupled to the drive member, a second portion coupled to the driven member, and an intermediate portion between the first portion and the second portion; and an adjustment member that engages the intermediate portion of the first tension element, wherein the adjustment member is configured to be adjusted to vary a tension force applied to the first tension element, wherein the flexible transmission includes a second tension element that is not engaged by the adjustment member, wherein the flexible transmission is configured such that a tension force applied to the second tension element is varied when the adjustment member is adjusted to vary a tension force applied to the first tension element, and wherein the drive member is disposed between the driven member and the adjustment member. 11. The transmission apparatus of claim 10, wherein the adjustment member includes at least a portion configured to move in a first direction and a second direction, wherein the first and second directions are along at least one of a line and an arc. 12. The transmission apparatus of claim 11, wherein the portion of the adjustment member comprises a pulley. 13. The transmission apparatus of claim 11, wherein the adjustment member is configured to increase the tension force applied to the first tension element when the adjustment member moves in the first direction. 14. The transmission apparatus of claim 11, wherein the adjustment member is configured to decrease the tension force applied to the first tension element when the adjustment member moves in the second direction. 15. The transmission apparatus of claim 10, wherein the adjustment member is configured to move along a predetermined axis. 16. The transmission apparatus of claim 10, wherein the adjustment member is configured to rotate about a predetermined axis. 17. The transmission apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first tension element and the second tension element each comprise a cord. 