A microchip for performing a neural decoding algorithm is provided. The microchip is implemented using ultra-low power electronics. Also, the microchip includes a tunable neural decodable filter implemented using a plurality of amplifiers, a plurality of parameter learning filters, a multiplier, a gain and time-constant biasing circuits; and analog memory. The microchip, in a training mode, learns to perform an optimized translation of a raw neural signal received from a population of cortical neurons into motor control parameters. The optimization being based on a modified gradient descent least square algorithm wherein update for a given parameter in a filter is proportional to an averaged product of an error in the final output that the filter affects and a filtered version of its input. The microchip, in an operational mode, issues commands to controlling a device using learned mappings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microchip performing a neural decoding algorithm, said microchip implemented using ultra-low power electronics comprises: a tunable neural decodable filter implemented using a plurality of amplifiers; a plurality of parameter learning filters; a multiplier, wherein linear capacitors at the output of said multiplier integrate output currents to form voltage signals which are used to set bias voltages through gain and time-constant biasing circuits, wherein said bias voltages set the gain and time constant of said tunable neural decodable filter; and analog memory, wherein said microchip, in a training mode, learns to perform an optimized translation of a raw neural signal received from a population of cortical neurons into motor control parameters, said optimized translation being based on a modified gradient descent least square algorithm wherein update for a given parameter in a filter is proportional to an averaged product of an error in the final output that the filter affects and a filtered version of its input; and said microchip, in operational mode, issues commands to control a device using learned mappings. 2. The microchip of claim 1, wherein said device comprises a prosthesis or a computer interface. 3. The microchip of claim 1, wherein said microchip is used in conjunction with a neuromotor prosthetic system. 4. The microchip of claim 1, wherein said optimized translation is performed according to the following learning rule: .gradient..times..intg..sigma..times..function..times..times..differentia- l..function..differential..function..times.d ##EQU00023## where .gradient.E.sub.i is a gradient, e.sub.i(u) is the error at time u, N.sub.f(u) is an N-dimensional vector containing neural signal data at time u, W.sub.f(u) is an impulse response kernel corresponding to a filter applied to N.sub.f(u), and .differential..function..differential. ##EQU00024## is a convolution kernel. 5. The microchip of claim 1, wherein said microchip is implantable in the brain. 6. A microchip implantable inside a skull, said microchip, in a training mode, learns to perform an optimized translation of a raw neural signal received from a population of cortical neurons in the brain positioned in said skull into motor control parameters, said optimized translation is performed according to the following learning rule: .gradient..times..intg..sigma..times..function..function..times..times..d- ifferential..function..differential..function..times.d ##EQU00025## where .gradient.E.sub.i is a gradient, e.sub.i(u) is the error at time u, N.sub.f(u) is an N-dimensional vector containing neural signal data at time u, W.sub.f(u) is an impulse response kernel corresponding to a filter applied to N.sub.f(u), and .differential..function..differential. ##EQU00026## is a convolution kernel, said microchip, in an operational mode, issues commands to control a prosthesis using learned mappings. 7. The microchip of claim 6, wherein said microchip is used in conjunction with a neuromotor prosthetic system. 