A mobile equipment endowed with a neutrons source possibly in combination with other radiation sources including a robot system that, moving on a controlled trajectory, realize the conditions to observe from different positions the radiation emerging from a specimen either mobile or fixed, properly irradiated, is described.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mobile robotic apparatus comprising: a source for radiating a specimen, wherein said apparatus is configured to move along a controlled trajectory to observe, from different positions, radiation emitted from an irradiated area of the specimen which is either mobile or fixed; a mobile surface (10), a first shelf (12) and a central shaft (11) coupled therebetween the mobile surface and first shelf, the central shaft being mechanically, electrically or manually movable and configured to move the first shelf (12) vertically along a z-axis with respect to the mobile surface, a second shelf mounted over said first shelf and configured to slidably move horizontally along an x-axis and y-axis with respect to the first shelf (12) by mechanical gears and guides which are controlled manually or electrically; and three robots (14, 15, 16) including a central robot (15) and two external robots (14, 16) which are arranged to define a mobile virtual goniometer, each said robot being configured to move along a predetermined and controlled trajectory and comprising a base (17) coupled to the second shelf, a lower arm (18) extending from the base, and an upper arm (18') having a proximate end joined through a joint (19) to the lower arm, the joint being configured to rotate the upper arm (18') with respect to the lower arm (18), and the upper arm (18') having a free end opposite to the joint (19), wherein the free end of one of the two external robots supports the source of radiation (20), the free end of the other external robot supports a detector (21), and wherein the free end of the upper arm of the central robot (15) supports a pointing system with a centring window (22). 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 in which said bases (17) of the robots (14,15,16) are provided with electronically controlled trolleys configured to move on the second shelf (13) freely or to slide on suitable rails formed in a surface of the second shelf (13). 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each base (17) is provided with motors configured to rotate the lower arm (18) around a plane defined by x and y axes, and in which each joint (19) is provided with motors configured to allow the rotation around the x and y axes. 4. The apparatus according to the claim 1, wherein said central robot includes a telescopic arm to extend the centring window (22) towards the specimen without any direct contact. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said source (20), detector (21) and the centring window (22) are linked to the respective upper arms (18') through a joint (23) configured to rotate those devices around one or more planes defined by the x-y-z axes. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said pointing system includes two optic lasers (LA) and (LB), a CCD camera (TC) and the centring window (22). 7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said source of radiation is a neutron source that is thermalized or partially thermalized. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said neutron source is a pulsed source provided with an electronic filter to cut off neutrons with extreme energy values, and radiation lenses to increase beam density of the irradiated area. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said detector includes a 3He gas counter. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising walls to confine the measurement area; said walls being mobile or tiltable-up or removable to favor the positioning of the platform (13) that supports all the apparatus relatively to the analyzed object. 11. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the neutron source is in combination with other radiation sources. 12. The apparatus according to the claim 1, wherein said centring window includes covering material to reveal the radiation. 13. The apparatus according to the claim 1, wherein said centring window (22) further includes means to project and detect at distance lines, masks and frames. 14. The apparatus according to the claim 1, wherein said centring window (22) further includes means for sputtering covering materials on the surface. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said detector includes at least one of a monocromator and a detection controller. 