There is described a wafer processing system for thinned wafers that are easily broken during handling. The system protects against breakage during handling and provides for temperature controls during processing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A transfer chamber to accept wafers from atmospheric conditions and transfer wafers on to other processing chambers under vacuum condition, comprising: an enclosure having an entrance to accept wafers from atmospheric conditions; a robotic arm to feed wafers from a supply source at atmospheric conditions into said enclosure; a non-contact chuck comprising a cushioned platform positioned above the entrance of said enclosure in a position generally parallel to a wafer in said enclosure on said robotic arm to elevate the wafer from said robotic arm toward said cushioned platform; an electrostatic chuck generally at the base of said enclosure in a position generally parallel to said non-contact wafer chuck; a vacuum pump to draw a vacuum in said enclosure. 2. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 1, wherein the non-contact chuck is configured to apply a negative pressure gas to elevate the wafer from said robotic arm toward said cushioned platform. 3. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 2, wherein the non-contact chuck is further configured to apply a positive pressure gas to maintain the wafer out of contact with said non-contact chuck while in position adjacent to said non-contact chuck. 4. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a carrier configured for transferring said electrostatic chuck from said enclosure and into an adjacent processing chamber. 5. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 4, further comprising transport system cooperating to move said carrier out of said enclosure and into the adjacent processing chamber under vacuum condition. 6. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 5, wherein the transport system is configured to transport said carrier back to said enclosure where said wafer is transferred to near contact with said non-contact chuck with positive and negative gas pressures and then released to the robotic arm for removal of the wafer from said load lock. 7. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 5, further comprising a pedestal to elevate said electrostatic chuck to a position underlying the wafer at said non-contact chuck to transfer the wafer from its position at said non-contact chuck to a position adjacent to said electrostatic chuck in near contact with said electrostatic chuck, and to lower said pedestal with said electrostatic chuck and said wafer while in near contact with said electrostatic chuck away from said non-contact chuck, and wherein said carrier comprises an opening for accepting the pedestal there-through. 8. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a drive means to move said robotic arm out of said enclosure and to seal the entrance to said enclosure. 9. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 1, wherein said electrostatic chuck comprises pathways to supply negative and positive gas pressure through its volume. 10. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 9, further comprising a pedestal to elevate said electrostatic chuck to a position underlying the wafer at said non-contact chuck to transfer the wafer from its position at said non-contact chuck to a position adjacent to said electrostatic chuck in near contact with said electrostatic chuck, and to lower said pedestal with said electrostatic chuck and said wafer while in near contact with said electrostatic chuck away from said non-contact chuck. 11. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 10, further comprising means for striking plasma in said enclosure to electrostatically bind the wafer to said electrostatic chuck. 12. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a centering mechanism operable to maintain the wafer centered while held by the non-contact chuck. 13. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 1, further comprising temperature control systems to apply temperature controls to said wafer. 14. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 1, wherein the non-contact chuck is configured to apply a negative pressure gas to elevate the wafer from said robotic arm toward said cushioned platform and to apply a positive pressure gas to maintain the wafer out of contact with said non-contact chuck while in position adjacent to said non-contact chuck; and further comprising a pedestal to elevate said electrostatic chuck to a position underlying the wafer at said non-contact chuck to transfer the wafer from its position at said non-contact chuck to a position adjacent to said electrostatic chuck in near contact with said electrostatic chuck, and to lower said pedestal with said electrostatic chuck and said wafer while in near contact with said electrostatic chuck away from said non-contact chuck. 15. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 14, further comprising means for striking plasma in said enclosure to electrostatically bind the wafer to said electrostatic chuck. 16. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 15, further comprising a centering mechanism operable to maintain the wafer centered while held by the non-contact chuck. 17. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 16, further comprising a carrier configured for transferring said electrostatic chuck from said enclosure and into an adjacent processing chamber. 18. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 17, further comprising transport system cooperating to move said carrier out of said enclosure and into the adjacent processing chamber under vacuum condition. 19. A transfer chamber in accordance with claim 18, wherein said electrostatic chuck further comprises temperature control systems to apply temperature controls to said wafer. 