The workpiece-contacting surface of the spot welding electrode may be suitably modified to incorporate a desired shape or form, generally comprising a depressed region outlining a recognizable shape, to form aesthetically-pleasing or functional features in the surface of a workpiece during resistance spot welding. Methods for creating the desired form in the spot welding electrode including abrasion, upsetting, and electrical discharge machining are disclosed. Preferably the electrode face is shaped and subsequently redressed during welding operations at the welding station.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a resistance spot welding electrode for imparting a visible image on a weldment, the electrode having a generally round cylindrical body with a cylinder axis and a workpiece-contacting surface at one end of the body, the method comprising: shaping the electrode to create a generally flat or convex-shaped workpiece-contacting surface on the electrode; interposing a mask between the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode and an abrasive medium to restrict access of the abrasive medium to the workpiece-contacting surface, the mask having at least one opening enabling access of the abrasive medium to the workpiece-contacting surface; and using the abrasive medium to selectively shape portions of the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode with image-forming features other than for creating features of circular symmetry centered about the weld face of the electrode body, the image forming features comprising protrusions and/or intrusions extending, respectively, above or below adjacent regions of the workpiece contacting surface such that the workpiece-contacting surface imposes a visible reverse image in a weldment formed on a metal workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the abrasive medium comprises abrasive particles. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the abrasive medium comprises a wire brush. 4. A method of preparing a resistance spot welding electrode for imparting a visible image on a weldment, the electrode having a generally round cylindrical body with a cylinder axis and a workpiece-contacting surface at one end of the body, the workpiece-contacting surface end of the electrode body having one or more image surface regions displaying a reverse shape of a desired image and image boundary regions enclosing the image surface regions, the image surface regions and image boundary regions being disposed generally co-axially with the cylinder axis and formed of different electrode compositions that respond differently to a selected process for removal of electrode material in development of image forming features on the workpiece-contacting surface, the method comprising: shaping the electrode to create a suitably-shaped workpiece-contacting surface on the electrode; and simultaneously exposing the image surface regions and image boundary regions to a material removal process that selectively removes electrode material to leave protrusions and/or intrusions in the image surface regions extending, respectively, above or below adjacent image boundary regions of the workpiece-contacting surface such that the workpiece-contacting surface is suitable for imposing a visible reverse image in a weldment formed on a metal workpiece. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode is selectively shaped using an abrasive medium. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the abrasive medium comprises abrasive grit. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode is selectively shaped by dissolution in a chemical solution. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode is selectively shaped by electrically-enhanced dissolution in a chemical solution. 9. A method of operating an electrical resistance welding operation in which a welding machine arm at a welding station presses the workpiece-contacting face of a generally round cylindrical weld electrode against the surface of a metal workpiece, the method comprising: (a) selectively shaping the weld face of the electrode with image-forming features other than for creating features of circular symmetry centered about the weld face of the electrode body, the image forming features comprising protrusions and/or intrusions in the workpiece-contacting surface such that the surface imposes a visible reverse image in a weldment formed on the metal workpiece; (b) using the welding machine arm and weld electrode to form many welds in which each weldment bears the reverse image; (c) using an automated vision system to determine when the image on the weld face no longer produces the visible reverse image; and (d) re-shaping the weld face at the welding station as specified in step (a). 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode is selectively shaped using an abrasive medium. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode is selectively shaped by dissolution in a chemical solution. 12. A method of preparing a resistance spot welding electrode for imparting a visible image on a weldment, the electrode having a generally round cylindrical body with a cylinder axis and a workpiece-contacting surface at one end of the body, the method comprising: shaping the electrode to create a generally flat or convex-shaped workpiece-contacting surface on the electrode; and using electrical discharge machining to selectively shape portions of the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode with image-forming features other than for creating features of circular symmetry centered about the weld face of the electrode body, the image forming features comprising protrusions and/or intrusions extending, respectively, above or below adjacent regions of the workpiece contacting surface such that the workpiece-contacting surface imposes a visible reverse image in a weldment formed on a metal workpiece. 13. A method of preparing a resistance spot welding electrode for imparting a visible image on a weldment, the electrode having a generally round cylindrical body with a cylinder axis and a workpiece-contacting surface at one end of the body, the method comprising: shaping the electrode to create a generally flat or convex-shaped workpiece-contacting surface on the electrode; and upsetting the electrode to selectively shape portions of the workpiece-contacting surface of the electrode with image-forming features other than for creating features of circular symmetry centered about the weld face of the electrode body, the image forming features comprising protrusions and/or intrusions extending, respectively, above or below adjacent regions of the workpiece contacting surface such that the workpiece-contacting surface imposes a visible reverse image in a weldment formed on a metal workpiece; and dressing the selectively shaped workpiece contacting surface to remove displaced material away from the image forming features. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the upsetting is performed at a temperature of between 350.degree. C. and 750.degree. C. 15. A method of operating an electrical resistance welding operation in which a welding machine arm at a welding station presses the workpiece-contacting face of a generally round cylindrical weld electrode against the surface of a metal workpiece, the method comprising: (a) selectively shaping the weld face of the electrode with image-forming features other than for creating features of circular symmetry centered about the weld face of the electrode body, the image forming features comprising protrusions and/or intrusions in the workpiece-contacting surface such that the surface imposes a visible reverse image in a weldment formed on the metal workpiece; (b) using the welding machine arm and weld electrode to form many welds in which each weldment bears the reverse image; (c) removing the weld electrode from the welding machine arm; (d) conveying the weld electrode to a remote dressing and image-imparting station; (e) re-shaping the weld face as specified in step (a) at the remote dressing and image-imparting station; and (f) returning the weld electrode to the welding station and re-installing the weld electrode on the welding machine arm. 