The invention is a system that is integrated with an existing robotic system in order to extend its observation, surveillance, and navigational capabilities. The system comprises: a sensor module comprising imaging and other types of sensors that is attached to the robotic device of the robotic system and a system control station comprising a communication link to the robot control station of the existing robotic system. Both the system control station and the sensor module comprise processing units that are configured to work in complete harmony. These processing units are each supplied with software that enables using information supplied by the sensors and other components in the sensor module to provide the robotic systems with many advanced capabilities that could not be achieves prior to attachment of the sensor module to the robot.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system that is adapted to be integrated with an existing robotic system in order to extend the observation, surveillance, and navigational capabilities of said robotic system, said system comprising: a sensor module that is attached to the robotic device of said robotic system and a system control station comprising a communication link to the robot control station of said existing robotic system; wherein both the system control station and the sensor module comprise processing units that are configured to work in complete harmony and are each supplied with software that enables at least one of the following capabilities: a. stitching together the views taken by several imagine devices into a panoramic image; b. processing images by the use of an automatic Video Motion Detection (VMD) program; c. the ability to sort objects in the images into general categories; d. the ability to identify specific objects by comparison of the objects in the images with an existing database; e. the ability to combine the image processing software with software that enables Optical Character Recognition (OCR); f. the ability to assess the range to objects in the environment; g. the ability to return via the same route; h. the ability to recognize the sky lines in the images taken by the imaging sensors to compare them with a prepared sky line database thus being able to determine the location of the platform; and i. the ability to control two or more robotic platforms using one system control station. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein the sensor module is an at least partially hollow pod, which comprises: a) one or more imaging sensors comprising a video camera comprising optics that allows said camera to obtain images having a wide field of view; b) a processing unit comprising dedicated software programs and memory means; c) communication means; and d) a power supply. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein the sensor module comprises one or more additional sensors that are selected from the group comprising: a) video cameras mounted on PTZ mechanisms; b) sound sensors; c) volume sensors; d) vibration sensors; e) temperature sensors; f) smoke detectors; g) NBC (nuclear, biological, chemical) sensors; h) moisture detectors, and i) carbon monoxide sensors. 4. A system according to claim 2, wherein the sensor module comprises one or more of the following components: a) illumination means; b) range detection means; c) a digital compass; and d) a GPS system. 5. A system according to claim 2, wherein the processing unit in the sensor module is configured to use multiplexing technology to handle the data received from the sensors and other components on said sensor module and communication to and from the system control station. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein the system control station comprises: a) communication means for sending and receiving data; b) a processing unit comprising dedicated software and memory means; and c) a display screen for displaying images and other information received from the sensor module, information related to the location and trajectory of the robotic device, and information related to the operational status of said sensor module and said robotic device. 7. A system according to claim 6, wherein the system control station provides the user with: a) an interface with the sensor module via a direct communication link, said communication link adapted to allow suitable operational commands to be transmitted to the sensors and components of said sensor module and data to be received at the said system control station; and b) an interface with the robot) control station through a direct communication link, said communication link adapted to allow all functions of the robotic device, both functions that were originally controlled by means of a direct communication link between said robot control station and said robotic device and also new functions made possible by the addition of a sensor module to said robotic device, to be controlled by an operator using said system control station. 8. A system according to claim 7 wherein, the integration of the existing robotic system comprising a robotic device and a robot control station with the system control station is accomplished by means of software, which converts commands from said system control station into commands understood by said robot control station and transmits said converted commands via a communication link to said robot control station, whereupon said robot control station in turn relays commands via another communication link to said robotic device where said commands are executed in the normal manner. 9. A system according to claim 8 wherein, the communication link between the system control station and the robot control station can be implemented by means of one or more of the following: a) a communication receiver unit that is attached to said robot control station; b) connection to an existing port in said robot control station; and c) via standard wireless communication. 10. A system according to claim 7 wherein, one or more of the following communication links are wireless links: a) the communication link between the sensor module and the system control station; b) the communication link between said system control station and the robot control station; and c) the communication link between said robot control station and the robotic device. 11. A system according to claim 7 wherein, one or more of the following communication links are two-way links: a) the communication link between the sensor module and the system control station; b) the communication link between said system control station and the robot control station; and c) the communication link between said robot control station and the robotic device. 12. A system according to claim 6, wherein the display screen is a graphic user interface (GUI) configured to enable the user to control and navigate the robotic device by means of appropriate GUI buttons on a control bar and input means. 13. A system according to claim 1, wherein the interface is a touch screen, configured to allow the user to: a) choose the manner of displaying the information from various options, depending on the requirements of the mission and his personal preference, simply by touching the appropriate icon on the screen; and b) to plan the mission and to navigate the robotic platform simply by touching locations of interest in the images displayed on said interface. 14. A system according to claim 12, wherein the images displayed on the touch screen are one or more of the following: a) real time images from the observation area; b) real time images from the observation area integrated with images from previous missions in the same area; c) aerial photographs of the observation area; d) real time images integrated with aerial photographs of the observation area; e) graphical maps; and f) topographical maps. 