The invention relates to a joining head arrangement for joining components, such as studs, onto a workpiece. The joining head arrangement comprises a housing and a slide that is mounted on the housing and is movable, by means of a linear drive, in a joining direction in relation to the housing. The joining head further comprises a component holder, arranged on the slide, and operable to hold a component during a joining operation. A feed device delivers components, at a transfer location, to the component holder. The component holder is rotatable about an axis, which is aligned transversely relative to the joining direction, from a transfer position to a joining position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A joining head arrange for delivering a joining component, such as a weld stud, to the joining head of an operator, such as a robotic stud welder, for placing and fixing joining components onto a workpiece during a joining operation, the delivery mechanism comprising: a housing movable by an operator to a placement location on the workpiece; a slide mounted on the housing and movable, by means of a linear drive, relative to the housing in a joining direction perpendicular to the workpiece; at least one component holder, located on the slide and which can releasable hold a component during placement and the joining operation; at least one feed device for feeding components, at a transfer location, from the feed device to the component holder; and the component holder is rotatable, about an axis that is aligned transversely relative to the joining direction, from a transfer position, where the component is aligned at the transfer location, to a joining position aligned with the joining direction. 2. A joining head arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the transfer location is fixed relative to one of the housing and the slide. 3. A joining head arrangement according to claim 1 and further comprising a shaft rotatably mounted on the slide, and the component holder is connected to the shaft and, when a component is held in the component holder, then the component is aligned radially relative to the shaft. 4. A joining head arrangement according to claim 3, wherein the component holder is a first component holder connected to the shaft in a first radial location, and further comprising a second component holder connected to the shaft in a second radial location. 5. A joining head arrangement according to claim 4, wherein the feed device is a first feed device with a first transfer location, and further comprising a second feed device with a second transfer location. 6. A joining head arrangement according to claim 3, and further comprising a rotary drive device operable for turning the component holder, via the shaft, from the transfer position to the joining position. 7. A joining head arrangement according to claim 6, wherein the component holder is arranged at a first end of the shaft and the rotary drive device is arranged at a second end of the shaft. 8. A joining head arrangement according to claim 6, the rotary drive device including an electric motor. 9. A joining head arrangement according to claim 8, wherein the electric motor is arranged concentrically with the shaft. 10. A joining head arrangement for joining a stud onto a workpiece, the joining head arrangement comprising a housing; a linear drive located on the housing; a slide mounted on the housing and movable in a joining direction, one of toward and away from the workpiece, in relation to the housing by means of the linear drive; a component holder mounted rotatably on the slide about an axis that is aligned transversely relative to the joining direction and operable to hold the stud during a joining operation; a feed device for feeding the stud to the component holder, and the component holder is rotatable between a transfer position, where the stud is transferable from the feed device to the component holder at a transfer location, and a joining position, where the stud is joinable to the workpiece. 11. A joining head arrangement according to claim 10, wherein the transfer location is fixed in relation to one of the housing or the slide. 12. A joining head arrangement according to claim 10, and further comprising a shaft rotatably mounted on the slide, and the component holder is mounted to the shaft so a stud held therein is aligned radially relative to the shaft. 13. A joining head arrangement according to claim 12, wherein the component holder is a first component holder mounted at a first circumferential position on the shaft, and the joining head arrangement further comprises a second component holder mounted at a second circumferential position on the shaft, and the first circumferential position is angularly separated from the second circumferential position. 14. A joining head arrangement according to claim 13, wherein the feed device is a first feed device and the transfer location is a first transfer location, and the joining head arrangement further comprises a second feed device terminating at a second transfer location. 15. A joining head arrangement according to claim 12, and further comprising a drive device fixed to the slide and operable for turning the component holder from the transfer position to the joining position. 16. A joining head arrangement according to claim 15, the component holder being arranged at a first end of the shaft and the drive device arranged at a second end of the shaft. 17. A joining head arrangement according to claim 15, wherein the drive device includes an electric motor. 