A navigation and control system including a sensor configured to locate objects in a predetermined field of view from a vehicle. The sensor has an emitter configured to repeatedly scan a beam into a two-dimensional sector of a plane defined with respect to a first predetermined axis of the vehicle, and a detector configured to detect a reflection of the emitted beam from one of the objects. The sensor includes a panning mechanism configured to pan the plane in which the beam is scanned about a second predetermined axis to produce a three dimensional field of view. The navigation and control system includes a processor configured to determine the existence and location of the objects in the three dimensional field of view based on a position of the vehicle and a time between an emittance of the beam and a reception of the reflection of the emitted beam from one of the objects.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for navigation and control of an autonomous vehicle, comprising: producing three dimensional images in a field of view in a direction of travel of the vehicle by scanning repeatedly an emitted beam from the vehicle about a first predetermined axis and through a first angular sector and panning the emitted beam about a second predetermined axis different from the first predetermined axis and through a second angular sector; detecting at the vehicle a returned part of the emitted beam scattered by an object; determining by a processor in the vehicle a geospatial coordinate of the vehicle, a speed of the vehicle, and a heading of the vehicle, determining from the returned part of the emitted beam scattered by the object, by the processor in the vehicle, geospatial coordinates and a size of the object existing in the repeatedly produced 3D images; and controlling movement of the vehicle to avoid collision with the object based at least in part on at least one of the geospatial coordinates of the object, the size of the object, the geospatial coordinate of the vehicle, and the speed of the vehicle. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing in a memory a predetermined path of the vehicle between first and second locations; and controlling the vehicle to travel between the first and second locations, including adjusting vehicle direction to avoid collision with detected objects. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using at least one of a global positioning based system and an inertial navigation based system to determine the geospatial coordinate of the vehicle. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining if the object is in the predetermined path of the vehicle. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining that the object is an obstacle requiring vehicle avoidance. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining a field of view sector where said obstacle exists; and storing an obstacle indicator indicative that said obstacle exists in the field of view sector. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: tracking which field of view sectors have obstacles and which field of view sectors do not have obstacles in order to avoid obstacle collision. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising: producing a contour map of the object. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining from the contour map a first contour point on the contour map that is farther away from the vehicle than a second contour point on the contour map; identifying the object as said obstacle requiring vehicle avoidance if a slope between the first contour point and the second contour point is greater than a predetermined slope and if a height between the first contour point and the second contour point is greater than a predetermined height. 10. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining if the obstacle is to be avoided by determining if a geospatial position of the obstacle and a projected path of the vehicle provide vehicle lateral clearance between a top of the obstacle and the vehicle. 11. The method of claim 5, further comprising: providing at least one of direction and speed control to the vehicle in order to avoid the obstacle. 12. The method of claim 5, further comprising: obtaining a destination of the vehicle; and directing the vehicle in order to avoid the obstacle and to return on course to the destination. 13. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining a maximum height or depth and a maximum slope for the object in the three dimensional field of view in order to determine if said object is said obstacle requiring vehicle avoidance. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining first and second points on a contour map of the object, determining if said first point is farther away from the vehicle than said second point, determining a slope between the first point and the second point, determining if said slope is greater than a predetermined slope, and determining if a height between the first point and the second point is greater than a predetermined height, and if so, determining the object is an obstacle requiring vehicle avoidance. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling movement of the vehicle to avoid collision comprises controlling movement of a land-based vehicle. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein controlling movement of a land-based vehicle comprises controlling movement of at least one of an automobile, a truck, a sport utility vehicle, rescue vehicle, an agricultural vehicle, a mining vehicle, an escort vehicle, a toy vehicle, a reconnaissance vehicle, a test-track vehicle, and an armored vehicle. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling movement of the vehicle to avoid collision comprises controlling movement of a watercraft. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein controlling movement of a watercraft comprises controlling movement of at least one of a boat, a ship, a barge, a tanker, an amphibious vehicle, a hovercraft, and an armored ship. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling movement of the vehicle to avoid collision comprises controlling movement of an aircraft. 20. A method for navigation and control of an autonomous vehicle, comprising: producing three dimensional images in fields of view in a direction of travel of the vehicle by scanning repeatedly an emitted beam from the vehicle about a first predetermined axis and through a first angular sector and panning the emitted beam about a second predetermined axis different from the first predetermined axis and through a second angular sector; detecting at the vehicle a returned part of the emitted beam scattered by an object determining by a processor in the vehicle a geospatial coordinate of the vehicle, a speed of the vehicle, and a heading of the vehicle, producing a contour map of the object based on the returned part of the emitted beam scattered by the object; determining from the contour map a first point on the contour map of the object that is farther away from the vehicle than a second point on the contour map of the object; identifying by the processor in the vehicle the object as an obstacle to be avoided if a slope between the first point and the second point is greater than a predetermined slope and if a height between the first point and the second point is greater than a predetermined height. 