A method and apparatus for processing substrate edges is disclosed that overcomes the limitations of conventional edge processing methods and systems used in semiconductor manufacturing. The edge processing method and apparatus of this invention includes a laser and fiber-optic system to direct laser radiation onto a rotating substrate supported by a chuck. A laser beam is transmitted into a bundle of optical fibers, and the fibers accurately and precisely direct the beam to remove or transform organic or inorganic films, film stacks, residues, or particles, in atmosphere, from the top edge, top bevel, apex, bottom bevel, and bottom edge of the substrate in a single process step. Reaction by-products are removed by means of an exhaust tube enveloping the reaction site. This invention permits precise control of an edge exclusion width, resulting in an increase in the number of usable die on a wafer. Wafer edge processing with this invention replaces existing methods that use large volumes of purified water and hazardous chemicals including solvents, acids, alkalis, and proprietary strippers.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing edges of a substrate, comprising: a laser for emitting a laser beam of optical radiation; a vacuum chuck for supporting a substrate, the substrate having a top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge; a fiber optic input coupler for directing the laser beam into an optical fiber; a fiber optic beam delivery assembly, including a fiber optic output coupler disposed to direct optical radiation emitted by the optical fiber along at least three beam paths in a defined order, with a first beam path directing optical radiation to the top edge of the substrate; a second beam path directing optical radiation to the apex edge of the substrate; and a third beam path directing optical radiation to the bottom edge of the substrate, the fiber optic beam delivery assembly further arranged such that the first, second, and third beam paths are equal in length; and the apparatus thereby removing or transforming films, particles, or residues on each of the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate by application of the optical radiation, and in a single substrate processing step without removing the substrate from the vacuum chuck. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a wavelength of said laser is between 190 nm and 770 nm. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the output coupler is fixed in position. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the output coupler is movable. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fiber optic beam delivery assembly further comprises an output coupler that is movable along a track disposed parallel to and equidistant from all-edges of the substrate. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the output coupler contains lenses. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the lenses are focusing lenses. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the lenses are beam shaping lenses. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the beam shaping lenses contain anamorphic refracting elements. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the beam shaping lenses contain diffractive optical elements. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fiber optic assembly is arranged such that three or more substrate edges are exposed at the same time. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising: a cylindrical exhaust tube assembly to remove films, particles or residues resulting from reaction of the optical radiation with the substrate, the cylindrical exhaust tube assembly having a longitudinal slot for enveloping the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge simultaneously, and thereby preventing films, particles or residues resulting from reaction of the optical radiation from reaching areas of the substrate located away from the edges. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising: an injector assembly, to direct a fluid to the three or more of the substrate edges being exposed to the laser radiation. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus is part of a stand-alone semiconductor wafer edge-processing system. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said fiber-optic assembly is integrated into a module for use in a semiconductor wafer edge-processing system. 16. A method for processing edges of a substrate comprising: supporting a substrate on a vacuum chuck, the substrate having a top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge; delivering a beam of laser radiation via a fiber optic assembly to three or more of a the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate along at least three beam paths in a defined order, by directing optical radiation to the top edge of the substrate along a first beam path; directing optical radiation to the apex edge of the substrate along a second beam path; and directing directing optical radiation to the bottom edge of the substrate along a third beam path, such that the first, second, and third beam paths are equal in length; moving the fiber optic and the substrate relative to one another; delivering a flow of a fluid to the reaction region of the substrate edges while the beam is being delivered to the edges of the substrate; thereby removing or transforming films, particles, or residues on the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge, of the substrate in a single substrate processing step without removing the substrate from the vacuum chuck; and exhausting films, particles or residues of the reaction of the optical radiation and fluid via an exhaust flow provided by positioning a cylindrical exhaust tube to envelope the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate. 17. An apparatus for processing edges of a substrate, comprising: a vacuum chuck for supporting a substrate, the substrate having a top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge; a laser for emitting a laser beam of optical radiation at 355 nm; a fiber coupler for directing the laser beam into an optical fiber; a beam delivery assembly disposed to direct optical radiation emitted by the optical fiber along at least three beam paths in a defined order, with a first beam path directing optical radiation to the top edge of the substrate; a second beam path directing optical radiation to the apex edge of the substrate; and a third beam path directing optical radiation to the bottom edge of the substrate, the fiber optic beam delivery assembly further comprising a fiber optic head that is movable along a track that is disposed in parallel to and equidistant from all edges of the substrate such that the first, second, and third beam paths are equal in length; the apparatus thereby removing or transforming films, particles, or other residues on each of the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate by application of the optical radiation, and in a single substrate processing step without removing the substrate from the vacuum chuck; and a tube having a longitudinal opening disposed to envelop the top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate, and having openings at each end to permit an exhaust flow containing and exhausting removed or transformed films, particles or residues. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein: the laser emits a laser beam of optical radiation at a wavelength between 190 nm and 770 nm; the apparatus operates at room temperature; the tube provides adequate exhaust flow for containing and exhausting the removed or transformed films, particles, or residues; and an injector assembly to inject a non-reactive fluid into said tube so as to further enhance the removal of films, particles, or residues from the substrate. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the non-reactive fluid is nitrogen gas. 