Method and systems are disclosed for radiating a moving target inside a heart. The method includes acquiring sequential volumetric representations of an area of the heart and defining a target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region in 3D for a first of the representations. The target tissue region and/or radiation sensitive structure region are identified for another of the representations by an analysis of the area of the heart from the first representation and the other representation. Radiation beams to the target tissue region are fired in response to the identified target tissue region and/or radiation sensitive structure region from the other representation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of radiating a moving target inside a heart, the method comprising: A acquiring a computed tomography (CT) volume; B defining a transmural target tissue region; C computing a dose distribution; D visualizing the dose distribution using surface rendering in 3-dimensions (3D) so as to verify transmurality; and E delivering the dose distribution using radiation beams to the transmural target tissue region, wherein action B includes visualizing a surface rendering of a heart muscle in 3D so as to ensure transmurality of the target, and wherein delivering the dose distribution of action E includes firing radiation beams to treat the target sufficiently transmuraly so that arrhythmia is inhibited. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step D includes a method selected from the group of: (1) volume rendering, (2) maximum intensity projection, (3) minimum intensity projection, (4) X-ray projection, (5) haptic feedback, (6) virtual fly-through, (7) stereoscopic 3D rendering, (8) virtual reality and (9) multi-planar, oblique and curved reconstructions. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step C includes computing radiation beam trajectories from outside a patient toward the target tissue region within the patient. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of steps A, B, C, and D include a processor configured with machine-readable code embodying instructions for performing the step. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two sequential CT volumes of the heart are acquired during a cardiac cycle or respiratory cycle or both, where the target comprises the heart muscle, and further comprising ensuring transmurality of the target using the two or more sequential volumes. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the target tissue region comprises the heart muscle extending through a wall of the heart from a first surface of the heart to a second surface of the heart. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the dose distribution is a radiation dose distribution. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the target region is a moving target region. 