A method for a minimally invasive surgical system is disclosed including reading first tool information from a storage device in a first robotic surgical tool mounted to a first robotic arm to at least determine a first tool type; reading equipment information about one or more remote controlled equipment for control thereof; comparing the first tool information with the equipment information to appropriately match a first remote controlled equipment of the one or more remote controlled equipment to the first robotic surgical tool; and mapping one or more user interface input devices of a first control console to control the first remote controlled equipment to support a function of the first robotic surgical tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for a minimally invasive surgical system, the method comprising: receiving first tool information from a storage device in a first robotic surgical tool mounted to a first robotic arm to at least determine a first tool type of the first robotic surgical tool; receiving first equipment information about a first remote controlled equipment from the first remote controlled equipment; and in response to receiving the first tool information and the first equipment information, automatically assigning the first remote controlled equipment to be operably coupled to the first robotic surgical tool and to one or more user interface input devices. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: adapting signal levels of the one or more user interface input devices to signal levels of the first remote controlled equipment. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more user interface input devices are one or more foot pedal switches. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more user interface input devices are assigned through the first robotic surgical tool to control the first remote controlled equipment. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first remote controlled equipment is operably coupled to supply vacuum, gasses, liquids, energy, data signals, or control signals to the first robotic surgical tool. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first robotic surgical tool is an electrosurgical tool and the first remote controlled equipment is an electrosurgical generator that is controlled to supply energy to the first robotic surgical tool. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second tool information from a storage device in a second robotic surgical tool mounted to a second robotic arm to at least determine a second tool type; receiving second equipment information about a second remote controlled equipment from the second remote controlled equipment; in response to receiving the second tool information and the second remote controlled equipment information, automatically assigning the second remote controlled equipment to be operably coupled to the second robotic surgical tool; and in response to a control swap signal to swap between control of the first remote controlled equipment supporting a function of the first robotic surgical tool and the second remote controlled equipment supporting a function of the second robotic surgical tool, changing the assignment of the one or more user interface input devices between the first remote controlled equipment and the second remote controlled equipment. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more user interface input devices are foot pedal switches. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second tool information from a storage device in a second robotic surgical tool mounted to a second robotic arm to at least determine a second tool type; in response to receiving the second tool information, automatically assigning the first remote controlled equipment to be operably coupled to the second robotic surgical tool; and in response to a control swap signal to swap control, changing the assignment of the one or more user interfaces to control the first remote controlled equipment from supporting a function of the first robotic surgical tool to supporting the function of the second robotic surgical tool. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving second tool information from a storage device in a second robotic tool mounted to a second robotic arm, wherein: the first robotic surgical tool is a monopolar electrosurgical tool and the second robotic surgical tool is a bipolar electrosurgical tool; and a first remote controlled equipment is a monopolar and bipolar electrosurgical generator that is operably coupled to supply energy to the first robotic surgical tool and operably coupled to supply energy to the second robotic surgical tool. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving third tool information from a storage device in a third robotic surgical tool mounted to a third robotic arm to at least determine a third tool type; receiving from a third remote controlled equipment third equipment information about the third remote controlled equipment; and in response to receiving the third tool information and the third remote controlled equipment information, automatically assigning the third remote controlled equipment to be operably coupled to the third robotic surgical tool. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the assigning of the one or more user interface input devices is responsive to a tool swap signal to swap kinematic control between the first robotic surgical tool and a second robotic surgical tool. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second tool information from a storage device in a second robotic surgical tool mounted to a second robotic arm to at least determine a second tool type; in response to receiving the second tool information, automatically assigning the first or a second remote controlled equipment to be operably coupled to the second robotic surgical tool; receiving third tool information from a storage device in a third robotic surgical tool mounted to a third robotic arm to at least determine a third tool type; in response to receiving the third tool information, automatically assigning the first, the second, or a third remote controlled equipment to the third robotic surgical tool; and automatically assigning of the one or more user interface input devices to control a surgical function of one of the first, second, and third surgical tools in response to: a tool swap signal to swap kinematic control between the first robotic surgical tool, the second robotic surgical tool, and the third robotic surgical tool, and a control swap signal to swap between control of the first, the second, or the third remote controlled equipment in supporting the function of the first robotic surgical tool, the second surgical tool, or the third robotic surgical tool, respectively. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein a second remote controlled equipment is assigned to operably couple to the second robotic surgical tool to support a function of the second robotic surgical tool; and wherein the first and second remote controlled equipment are operably coupled to supply vacuum, gasses, liquids, energy, data signals, or control signals to the first and second robotic surgical tools, respectively. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: providing user feedback in response to a selection of at least one of the one or more foot pedals to inform a user of status of the first or second robotic surgical tools. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the equipment information is read from a storage device in each of one or more cables respectively coupled to the one or more remote controlled equipment. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second tool information from a storage device in a second robotic surgical tool mounted to a second robotic arm to at least determine a second tool type; comparing the second tool information with equipment information from a second remote controlled equipment to match the second remote controlled equipment to the second robotic surgical tool; and automatically assigning one or more user interface input devices of a second control console to control the second remote controlled equipment to support a function of the second robotic surgical tool. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second tool information from a storage device in a second robotic surgical tool mounted to a second robotic arm to at least determine a second tool type; comparing the second tool information with equipment information from a second remote controlled equipment to match the second remote controlled equipment to the second robotic surgical tool; wherein the one or more user interface input devices are one or more user interface input devices of a first control console; automatically assigning one or more user interface input devices of the first control console to control the second remote controlled equipment to support a function of the second robotic surgical tool; and automatically assigning at least one user interface input device of a second control console to control the kinematics of at least the first robotic surgical tool. 19. An adaptable integrated user interface controller for a control console, the adaptable integrated user interface controller comprising: mapping logic to couple to one or more user interface input devices to receive control signals in response to selection of the one or more user interface input devices; adaptable input/output (I/O) interface coupled to the mapping logic, wherein the adaptable I/O interface is coupled to receive signals from one or more remote controlled equipment, wherein the adaptable I/O interface is configured to receive equipment information from the one or more remote controlled equipment and adapt signal levels of the one or more user interface input devices to signal levels of the one or more remote controlled equipment; and wherein the mapping logic is configured to selectively assign the one or more user interface input devices with the one or more remote controlled equipment and one or more robotic surgical tools in response to receiving: the equipment information from the one or more remote controlled equipment, and tool information of the one or more robotic surgical tools. 20. The adaptable integrated user interface controller of claim 19, wherein, in response to an active tool control signal to swap control between a first robotic surgical tool and a second robotic surgical tool, the mapping logic is configured to selectively assign the one or more remote controlled equipment and the one or more user interface devices to support a function of one of the first robotic surgical tool and the second robotic surgical tool. 21. The adaptable integrated user interface controller of claim 19, further comprising: a user input interface to couple between the mapping logic and the one or more user interface input devices, the user input interface configured to generate control signals in response to activation of the one or more user interface input devices. 22. The adaptable integrated user interface controller of claim 19, further comprising: a user output interface configured to couple to one or more user interface output devices, the user output interface configured to inform a user of status of the one or more robotic surgical tools. 23. The adaptable integrated user interface controller of claim 19, wherein: the adaptable input/output (I/O) interface is coupled to the one or more remote controlled equipment by a smart cable having a storage device, and the adaptable input/output (I/O) interface is configured to read the storage device of the smart cable to receive the equipment information of the one or more remote controlled equipment. 24. The adaptable integrated user interface controller of claim 23, wherein the adaptable integrated user interface controller is in communication with the one or more robotic surgical tools to read the tool information. 25. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the first tool information with the equipment information and assigning the first remote controlled equipment to the first robotic surgical tool if the first remote controlled equipment and the first robotic surgical tool are compatible. 26. The adaptable integrated user interface controller of claim 20, wherein: the one or more robotic surgical tools includes a first robotic monopoloar electrosurqical tool and a second robotic bipolar electrosurgical tool, and the active tool control signal is an energy swap signal to swap the one or more user interface devices between controlling a monopolar electrosurgical generator to support the first robotic monopolar electrosurgical tool and a bipolar electrosurgical generator to support the second robotic bipolar electrosurqical tool. 27. The adaptable integrated user interface controller of claim 19, wherein the mapping logic is configured to couple to a plurality of user interface input devices and the adaptable input/output interface is configured to couple to a plurality of remote controlled equipment; wherein the mapping logic is configured to selectively assign each of the plurality of user interface devices with one of the plurality of remote controlled equipment and with one of a plurality of robotic surgical tools; wherein the mapping logic is configured to perform the selective assignment in response to receiving equipment information from the plurality of remote controlled equipment and tool information from the plurality of robotic surgical tools. 