A wiring unit is provided for robots having a rotary joint. This unit includes a wiring case, a slide aid contained in the wiring case, and a flexible printed wiring board for electric wiring. The wiring case includes a cylindrical housing and a reel with a cylindrical core member. The reel is relatively rotatable to the housing. The reel and housing are linked with robot's two members requiring the rotary joint. In the slide aid, an annular rotary plate surrounds the core member and is rotatable about the core member. Plural rollers are provided on the rotary plate and self-rotatable. The wiring board has electrical wires and is connected to the core member and housing and is wound and unwound in radially inside and outside spaces of the rollers via the vacant space by moving on and along the rollers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wiring unit for robots having a rotary joint with which two members are mutually rotatably coupled, an electronic wiring passing through the two members and the rotary joint, the wiring unit comprising: a wiring case comprising i) a cylindrical housing whose both ends are opened in an axial direction of the housing and ii) a reel a) having a cylindrical core member located in an inner space of the housing and the reel comprising two lid members mutually integrated with the core member and located on both axial end sides of the inner space of the housing, and b) being relatively rotatable to the housing, the housing and the reel respectively being linked respectively with the two members of the robot; a slide aid comprising an annular rotary plate i) having both ends which produce a vacant space therebetween, ii) being placed to surround the core member in a radial direction of the housing, and iii) being rotatable about the core member, and a plurality of rollers provided on the rotary plate to be located around the core member and rotatable about an axis thereof; and a flexible printed wiring board, which is belt-shaped, in which a plurality of electrically conductive wires for the electrical wiring are contained with electrical insulation therebetween, and which has i) two length-width end portions one of which is linked with the core member and the other of which is linked with the housing and ii) a rest portion other than the two length-width end portions, which is located within the inner space of the housing, is wound and unwound in inside and outside spaces of a set of the rollers in the radial direction via the vacant space such that that the rest portion is moved on and along the rollers and is wound and unwound oppositely in directions between the inside and the outside spaces of the set of the rollers in the radial direction, wherein the flexible printed wiring board is folded back via the vacant space left by the rotary plate so that the flexible printed wiring board has an arc folded-back portion which changes a winding direction thereof in the vacant space, and is provided with an outer protective board made up of a polyimide film which is laid over the flexible printed wiring board so that the outer protective board is located outermost in the arc fold-back portion. 2. The wiring unit of claim 1, wherein each of the rollers has an outer diameter and the rotary plate has a width in the radial direction and the outer diameter is larger than the width. 3. The wiring unit of claim 2, wherein the flexible printed wiring board is folded back via the vacant space left by the rotary plate so that the flexible printed wiring board has an arc folded-back portion which changes a winding direction thereof in the vacant space, and a roller among the plurality of rollers is provided at one end of both ends of the rotary plate, the arc folded-back portion being wound around the one end of both ends of the rotary plate, further comprising a protective pole provided at the other end of both ends of the rotary plate, wherein the protective pole has an arc concave surface which faces and accepts the arc folded-back portion for protecting the arc folded-back portion. 4. The wiring unit of claim 3, wherein the protective pole is biased outward in the axial direction on the rotary plate. 5. The wiring unit of claim 2, wherein the flexile flexible printed wiring board is composed of a plurality of flexible printed wiring board layers overlapped on one another. 6. The wiring unit of claim 5, wherein the flexible printed wiring board is folded back via the vacant space produced by the rotary plate so that the flexible printed wiring board has an arc folded-back portion which changes a winding direction thereof in the vacant space, and the flexible printed wiring board has a flexible film board applied to thereto such that the flexible film board is located most inwardly in the folded-back portion. 7. The wiring unit of claim 6, further comprising: a projection fixedly located between mutually adjacent two rollers among the plurality of rollers, wherein the two rollers are located from one end of both ends of the rotary plate and composed of a first roller and a second roller in this order from the one end, and the flexible printed wiring board has an arc folded-back portion which changes a winding direction thereof around the two rollers, wherein the arc folded-back portion of the flexible film board is located between the projection and the second roller and the flexible printed wiring board layers are located around the first roller via the vacant space produced between both ends of the rotary plate. 8. The wiring unit of claim 7, wherein the flexible film board is first wound around the second roller before the flexible printed wiring board layers are wound around the first roller in response to a relative rotation between the reel and the housing to have the flexible printed wiring board wound around the rollers, and the flexible film board is first touched to the projection before the arc folded-back portion of the flexible printed wiring board is made to touch a roller provided on the other end of the rotary plate by being unwound, in response to a relative rotation between the reel and the housing to have the flexible printed wiring board unwound around the rollers. 9. The wiring unit of claim 8, wherein the protrusion has a side to which the arc folded-back portion of the flexible film board is made to touch and the side of the protrusion has an arc concave surface to accept the arc folded-back portion. 10. The wiring unit of claim 2, wherein the plurality of rollers include a roller provided on one end of both ends of the rotary plate, the flexible printed wiring board being folded back from the radial inside of the set of rollers to the radial outside of the set of rollers around the roller provided on the one end, the wiring unit further comprising two protective rollers provided on the other end of both ends of the rotary plate, the two protective rollers aligning in a width direction of the rotary plate, each of the protective rollers is cylindrical and has a radius smaller than a radius of each of the rollers. 11. The wiring unit of claim 10, wherein each of the protective rollers rotates on an axis thereof. 12. The wiring unit of claim 10, wherein the two protective rollers consist of a first protective roller located outward in the radial direction and a second protective roller located inward in the radial direction and the second roller is positionally set back more than the first roller from the arc folded-back portion of the flexible film board. 13. The wiring unit of claim 12, wherein the two protective rollers consist of a first protective roller located outward in the radial direction and a second protective roller located inward in the radial direction and the two protective rollers are located such that the first protective roller first touches the arc folded-back portion and the second protective roller then touches the arc folded-back portion. 14. The wiring unit of claim 1, wherein the plurality of rollers are all of equal sizes and dimensions and located at equal arc intervals. 15. The wiring unit of claim 1, wherein the cylindrical core member is located at a center of a plane perpendicular to the axial direction of the housing. 16. The wiring unit of claim 1, wherein the flexible printed wiring board is folded back via the vacant space left by the rotary plate so that the flexible printed wiring board has an arc folded-back portion which changes a winding direction thereof in the vacant space, and a roller among the plurality of rollers is provided at one end of both ends of the rotary plate, the arc folded-back portion being wound around the one end of both ends of the rotary plate, further comprising a protective pole provided at the other end of both ends of the rotary plate, wherein the protective pole has an arc concave surface which faces and accepts the arc folded-back portion for protecting the arc folded-back portion. 17. The wiring unit of claim 1, wherein the flexible printed wiring board is composed of a plurality of flexible printed wiring board layers overlapped on one another. 18. The wiring unit of claim 17, wherein the flexible printed wiring board is folded back via the vacant space produced by the rotary plate so that the flexible printed wiring board has an arc folded-back portion which changes a winding direction thereof in the vacant space, and the flexible printed wiring board has a flexible film board applied to thereto such that the flexible film board is located most inwardly in the folded-back portion. 19. The wiring unit of claim 1, wherein the plurality of rollers include a roller provided on one end of both ends of the rotary plate, the flexible printed wiring board being folded back from the radial inside of the set of rollers to the radial outside of the set of rollers around the roller provided on the one end, the wiring unit further comprising two protective rollers provided on the other end of both ends of the rotary plate, the two protective rollers aligning in a width direction of the rotary plate, each of the protective rollers is cylindrical and has a radius smaller than a radius of each of the rollers. 20. The wiring unit of claim 1, wherein the flexible printed wiring board is provided with an inner protective board made up of a polyimide film which is laid over the flexible printed wiring board so that the inner protective board is located innermost in the arc fold-back portion. 