An embodiment of a multiple axis positioner comprises a main headstock that has a main hollow bore. A main indexing table is attached to the main headstock. The main indexing table has a through-hole near the its center. The through-hole aligns or is substantially coaxial with the main hollow bore of the main headstock. The embodiment of the multiple axis positioner further includes at least three minor headstocks mounted to the main indexing table. The at least three minor headstocks have minor hollow bores.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multistation workpiece holder apparatus comprising: at least one primary base; a primary rotary table operatively connected to the at least one primary base, where the primary rotary table includes a primary center surface defining a primary through-hole located substantially at the center of the primary rotary table; a plurality of secondary bases, where each of the secondary bases is operatively connected to the primary rotary table; a plurality of secondary rotary tables, including at least a first secondary rotary table and a second secondary rotary table, where the first secondary rotary table includes a first secondary center surface defining a first secondary through-hole located substantially at the center of the first secondary rotary table at a first secondary axis, where the first secondary rotary table is operatively connected to a first secondary base, where the second secondary rotary table includes a second secondary center surface defining a second secondary through-hole located substantially at the center of the second secondary rotary table at a second secondary axis, and where the second secondary rotary table is operatively connected to a second secondary base; and a plurality of secondary rotary table motors including: a first secondary rotary table motor operatively connected to the first secondary rotary table and configured to rotate the first secondary rotary table about the first secondary axis, where the first secondary motor is disposed such that the first secondary through-hole is unobstructed by the first secondary motor, and a second secondary motor operatively connected to the second secondary rotary table and configured to rotate the second secondary rotary table about a second secondary axis, where the second secondary motor is disposed such that the second secondary through-hole is substantially unobstructed by the second secondary motor. 2. The multistation workpiece holder apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a primary motor operatively connected to the primary rotary table and configured to rotate the primary rotary table about a primary axis substantially central to the primary rotary table. 3. The multistation workpiece holder apparatus of claim 2, where the primary motor is disposed such that the primary through-hole is substantially unobstructed by the primary motor. 4. The multistation workpiece holder apparatus of claim 1, where the plurality of secondary rotary tables further includes a third secondary rotary table having a third secondary center surface defining a third secondary through-hole located substantially at the center of the third secondary rotary table, where the third secondary rotary table is operatively connected to a third secondary base, where a third secondary motor is operatively connected to the third secondary rotary table and configured to rotate the third secondary rotary table about a third secondary axis, and where the third secondary motor is disposed such that the third secondary through-hole is substantially unobstructed by the third secondary motor. 5. The multistation workpiece holder apparatus of claim 4, further comprising at least three station shields operatively connected to the primary rotary table, where a first station shield is located between the first secondary base and the second secondary base, a second station shield is located between the second secondary base and the third secondary base and a third station shield is located between the third secondary base and the first secondary base. 6. The multistation workpiece holder apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a top shield operatively connected to the primary rotary table. 7. A workpiece positioner comprising: a rotary platform having a top surface and a center surface forming a main through-hole; means for holding a plurality of workpieces, where the means for holding include minor center surfaces forming minor through-holes, and where the means for holding are operatively connected to the top surface; and means for rotating the rotary platform about an axis of rotation perpendicular to the top surface, where the means for rotating the rotary platform are located such that the main through-hole is unobstructed. 8. The robotic welding positioner of claim 7, further comprising: means for rotating the means for holding the plurality of workpieces, where the means for rotating the means for holding the plurality of workpieces, where the means for holding the plurality of workpieces are located such that the minor through-holes are unobstructed. 