A method and apparatus for processing substrate edges is disclosed that overcomes the limitations of conventional edge processing methods and systems used in semiconductor manufacturing. The edge processing method and apparatus of this invention includes a laser and optical system to direct a beam of radiation onto a rotating substrate supported by a chuck. The optical system accurately and precisely directs the beam to remove or transform organic or inorganic films, film stacks, residues, or particles, in atmosphere, from the top edge, top bevel, apex, bottom bevel, and bottom edge of the substrate in a single process step. An optional gas injector system directs gas onto the substrate edge to aid in the reaction. Reaction by-products are removed by means of an exhaust tube enveloping the reaction site. This invention permits precise control of an edge exclusion width, resulting in an increase in the number of usable die on a wafer. Wafer edge processing with this invention replaces existing methods that use large volumes of purified water and hazardous chemicals including solvents, acids, alkalis, and proprietary strippers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising the steps of: mounting and rotating a substrate on a chuck; generating a laser beam; selecting a first one of three beam paths along which to deliver the laser beam at a first edge of the substrate; selecting a second one of three beam paths along which to deliver the laser beam to a second edge of the substrate; selecting a third one of three beam paths along which to deliver the laser beam to a third edge of the substrate; the first, second and third edge of the substrate each comprising a different selected one of a top edge, apex edge, and bottom edge of the substrate selected in a predefined order; providing a flow of a fluid in a vicinity of the first, second and third edges of the substrate while the first, second and third edges are being exposed to the laser beam; thereby removing or transforming films, particles, or residues from or on the top edge, apex edge and bottom edge of the substrate in a single process step without removing the substrate from the chuck; and exhausting by-products of the foregoing steps via the flow of fluid. 2. The method of claim 1 where a laser with a wavelength between 190 nm and 770 nm is used for generating the laser beam. 3. The method of claim 2 where the laser is a pulsed solid-state laser with wavelength between 350 nm and 360 nm. 4. The method of claim 1 where the laser beam has a Gaussian profile. 5. The method of claim 1 where the laser beam has a flat-top profile. 6. The method of claim 1 where the laser beam has a Gaussian profile on one axis and a flat-top profile on an orthogonal axis. 7. The method of claim 1 where the laser beam has an aspect ratio on the range of 1:1 to 20:1. 8. The method of claim 1 where the three beam paths have an equal optical path length. 9. The method of claim 1 where the fluid is an oxidizing gas. 10. The method of claim 1 where the fluid is a reducing gas. 11. The method of claim 1 where the fluid is air. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein a fiber-optical assembly is used for the step of selecting one of three beam paths for directing the beam at a given time. 13. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising: using a galvanometric scanning mirror to direct the laser beam, on the selected one of the three selectable beam paths, in a direction substantially orthogonal to a selected edge. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising: applying a correction signal to said galvanometric scanning minor to compensate for an off-centered substrate. 15. The method of claim 1 further comprising enclosing the substrate and the rotating chuck in a chamber. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the fluid is a reactive gas. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the reactive gas is air. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein the exhausting step further comprises: positioning an exhaust tube adjacent the substrate having a slot that envelops the top, apex, and bottom edges of the substrate. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein the film removed is a photoresist edge bead and the laser beam is generated at a wavelength of 355 nm with an energy density per pulse of 0.35 J/cm.sup.2 and 50% pulse to pulse overlap. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the residue removed is a Chemical Mechanical Polishing (CMP) residue and the laser beam is generated at an energy density per pulse of 1000 mJ/cm.sup.2 to 2400 mJ/cm.sup.2. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein the residue removed is a Post-Etch Polymer (PEP) and the laser beam is generated at an energy density per pulse of 500 mJ/cm.sup.2 to 1200 mJ/cm.sup.2. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein the film removed is a copper film and the laser beam is generated at a wavelength of 355 nm with a peak energy density per pulse of 1000 mJ/cm.sup.2 and 75% pulse to pulse overlap. 