A method for automated commissioning of bundles includes providing different source palettes and palettizing at least one target palette, with bundle layers of different source palettes being individualized and/or magazined in alternation and/or with variable predetermination, and/or bundles or bundle groups being magazined and/or demagazined in stacks before palettizing of the target palette, and/or the target palette is selectively palettized with at least one non-individualized bundle layer of a source palette.
Claims I claim as my invention: 1. A method for automated commissioning of bundles, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of different source palettes respectively having different bundles loaded thereon in bundle layers; providing a target palette; transferring selected bundles from said different source palettes to said target palette with an automated commissioning device; from a computerized control unit, operating said commissioning device to control the transfer of said bundles by directly individualizing and magazining of respective bundle layers respectively from said different source palettes before palettizing the target palette, to produce individualized bundle layers and implementing said direct individualizing and magazining according to at least one procedure selected from the group consisting of alternating transferal of said selected bundles from respective, different source palettes, and a variable predefinition of selected bundles that are transferred; and palettizing said target palette with at least one of said individualized bundle layers. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising magazining said bundle layers by stacking said bundle layers. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising demagazining the magazined bundle layers before palettizing said target palette. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising demagazining said bundle layers by stacking said bundle layers. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising providing said different source palettes with bundle layers that are each homogenous. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5 comprising providing said different source palettes with the homogenous layers in the respective different source palettes being identical. 7. A method as claimed in claim 5 comprising providing said different source palettes each with a mixture of different homogenous layers. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising providing said different source palettes relative to said automated commissioning device in a configuration selected from the group consisting of horizontally, in succession, and in alternation. 9. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising handling said different source palettes and said target palette and said bundles and bundle layers thereon according to a technique selected from the group consisting of floor techniques and portal conveyor techniques. 10. A system for automated commissioning of bundles, for use with a plurality of different source palettes respectively having different bundles loaded thereon in bundle layers, and comprising: a target palette, an automated commissioning device that transfers selected bundles from said different source palettes to said target palette; a computerized control unit configured to operate said commissioning device to control the transfer of said bundles by directly individualizing and magazining of respective bundle layers respectively from said different source palettes before palettizing the target palette, said computerized control unit being configured to implement said direct individualizing and magazining according to at least one procedure selected from the group consisting of alternating transferal of said selected bundles from respective, different source palettes, and a variable predefinition of selected bundles that are transferred to produce individualized bundle layers; and said computerized control unit being configured to operate said commissioning device to palettize said target palette with at least one of said individualized bundle layers. 11. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said computerized control unit is configured to operate said commissioning device to magazine said bundle layers by stacking said bundle layers. 12. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said computerized control unit is configured to operate said commissioning device to demagazine the magazined bundle layers before palettizing said target palette. 13. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said automatic commissioning device comprises a robotic manipulator. 14. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said automated commissioning device comprises at least one of a portal device and a continuous conveyor. 15. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said automated commissioning device comprises at least one of a stacking station and a column gripper. 16. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein said computerized control unit is configured to implement said individualizing and magazining based on said variable predefinition, and wherein said variable predefinition is at least one variable predefinition selected from the group consisting of a user input and a fill degree of a magazine. 17. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising implementing said individualizing and magazining by said variable predefinition, and selecting said variable predefinition from the group consisting of user input and degree of filling of a magazine. 18. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising providing at least one homogenous source palette among said plurality of different source palettes. 19. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising palettizing said target palette to produce a mixed target palette. 