Certain embodiments disclosed herein relate to compositions, methods, devices, systems, and products regarding frozen particles. In certain embodiments, the frozen particles include materials at low temperatures. In certain embodiments, the frozen particles provide vehicles for delivery of particular agents. In certain embodiments, the frozen particles are administered to at least one biological tissue.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition, comprising: one or more frozen hydrogen oxide particles including one or more explosive materials; and one or more therapeutic agents including at least one antibiotic, wherein the one or more therapeutic agents are located beneath the surface of the frozen hydrogen oxide particles in a distinct region segregated by a semi-permeable membrane; and wherein the one or more frozen hydrogen oxide particles have at least one major dimension of approximately one centimeter or less. 2. The composition of claim 1, wherein the one or more frozen particles have at least one major dimension of approximately one micrometer or less. 3. The composition of claim 2, wherein the at least one major dimension of the one or more frozen particles includes at least one of radius, diameter, length, width, height, or perimeter. 4. The composition of claim 1, further comprising one or more abrasives including nuts, nut products or pieces, pits or seeds. 5. The composition of claim 1, further comprising one or more reinforcement agents, including polyaramid, vinylester matrix, metal, ceramic, fiberglass, cellulose, broad carbide, aromatic polyamide, nylon, silk, rayon, acetate, modacrylic, olefin, acrylic, polyester, aromatic polyester, poly-lactic acid, vinyon, saran, spandex, vinalon, aromatic nylon, vinylidene chloride, modal, polybenzimidazole, sulfur, lyocell, orlon, zylon, high-performance polyethylene, polypyridobenzimidazole, vectran, acrylonitrile rubber, glass, copper, iron, steel, sodium, potassium, calcium, zinc, manganese, carbon, magnesium, alluvium, sand, sugar, calcite, emery, diamond, novaculite, pumice, rouge, borazon, corundum, zirconia alumina, silicon, or silica. 6. The composition of claim 1, wherein the one or more frozen particles further comprise at least one of polyethylene glycol, acetone, ethyl acetate, dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, dioxane, hexamethylphosphorotriamide, perfluorohydrocarbon, methanol, ethanol, tert-butyl alcohol, formic acid, hydrogen fluoride, ammonia, acetic acid, benzene, carbon tetrachloride, acetonitrile, hexane, methylene chloride, carboxylic acid, saline, Ringer's solution, lactated Ringer's solution, Hartmann's solution, acetated Ringer's solution, phosphate buffered solution, TRIS-buffered saline solution, Hank's balanced salt solution, Earle's balanced salt solution, standard saline citrate, HEPES-buffered saline, dextrose, glucose, or diethyl ether. 7. The composition of claim 1, further comprising at least one anti-inflammatory agent. 8. The composition of claim 1, further comprising at least one of a nanoparticle, or detection material. 9. The composition of claim 8, wherein the detection material includes at least one electronic identification device. 10. The composition of claim 9, wherein the at least one electronic identification device includes at least one radio frequency identification device. 11. The composition of claim 8, wherein the detection material includes at least one radioactive element. 12. The composition of claim 11, wherein the at least one radioactive element includes one or more of .sup.32P, .sup.35S, .sup.13C, .sup.131I, .sup.191Ir, .sup.192Ir, .sup.193Ir, .sup.201Tl, or .sup.3H. 13. The composition of claim 8, wherein the detection material includes at least one colorimetric substance. 14. The composition of claim 8, wherein the at least one colorimetric substance includes one or more of an inorganic, organic, biological, natural, artificial, or synthetic substance. 15. The composition of claim 13, wherein the at least one colorimetric substance includes one or more of a dye, pigment, or light-emitting substance. 16. The composition of claim 15, wherein the light-emitting substance includes at least one of a fluorescent substance, phosphorescent substance, or quantum dot. 17. The composition of claim 13, wherein the at least one colorimetric substance is biocompatible. 18. The composition of claim 8, wherein the detection material includes at least one of a diamagnetic particle, ferromagnetic particle, paramagnetic particle, super paramagnetic contrast agent, or other magnetic particle. 19. The composition of claim 1, wherein the one or more frozen particles include a plurality of frozen hydrogen oxide particles that are approximately uniform with regard to size, shape, weight, or density. 20. The composition of claim 1, formulated to be administered by high velocity impact. 21. The composition of claim 1, formulated to be administered by one or more devices. 22. The composition of claim 1, further comprising at least one pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier or excipient. 23. The composition of claim 1, wherein the one or more explosive materials include at least one of nitroglycerine, carbon dioxide, or a reactive metal. 