An exoskeleton having a first cuff adapted to be coupled to a user's lower limb is disclosed. The exoskeleton also includes a second cuff adapted to be coupled to the user's upper limb and a third cuff adapted to be coupled to the user's body. A first motor is mounted on the third cuff and has a first motor output coupled to the first cuff. A second motor is mounted on the third cuff and has a second motor output coupled to the second cuff. A processor is operatively coupled to the first and second motors to manipulate the first cuff and the second cuff relative to the third cuff such that the first cuff and the second cuff are able to move the user's lower limb and upper limb. A method of operating the exoskeleton is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An exoskeleton comprising: a first cuff adapted to be coupled to a lower portion of a user's limb; a second cuff adapted to be coupled to an upper portion of the user's limb; a third cuff adapted to be coupled the user's body; a first motor mounted on the third cuff and having a first motor output coupled to the first cuff; a second motor mounted on the third cuff and having a second motor output coupled to the second cuff; a third motor mounted on the third cuff and having a third motor output coupled to the first cuff; and a processor operatively coupled to the first, second, and third motors and configured to transmit signals to manipulate the first cuff and the second cuff relative to the third cuff for enabling the first cuff and the second cuff to move the lower portion of the user's limb and upper portion of the user's limb, wherein the first motor and the third motor are configured to operatively pivot the lower portion of the user's limb relative to the upper portion of the user's limb about a joint. 2. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the joint permits the lower portion of the user's limb to pivot along a plane relative to the upper portion of the user's limb and wherein the first motor output is adapted to be coupled to the first cuff along the plane. 3. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the first motor output is coupled to the first cuff through the second cuff. 4. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, further comprising a fourth motor, a fifth motor, and a sixth motor, each of the fourth, fifth, and sixth motors having respective outputs coupled to the second cuff. 5. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, wherein the outputs of the second, fourth, fifth, and sixth motors are spaced around the second cuff at 90 degree increments from adjacent outputs. 6. The exoskeleton of claim 1, wherein each motor comprises a spool attached thereto and each motor output comprises a filament attached to and configured to be being wound and unwound on the spool in response to movement of the motor. 7. The exoskeleton of claim 6, wherein the filament comprises metal wire or nylon. 8. A method of operating an exoskeleton comprising the steps of: providing the exoskeleton of claim 1 on a user's arm; and transmitting a signal from the processor to at least one of the first and second motors to operate at least one of the first and second motors, wherein the user's arm is manipulated by the exoskeleton to perform a predetermined task. 9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising the step of programming the processor to adjust assistance transmitted to the user's arm by the exoskeleton over time. 10. The method according to claim 8, wherein the signal transmitting step comprises selecting a task corresponding to the signal bring transmitted from a plurality of tasks. 