Oligomeric compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of eIF4E. The antisense compounds may be single- or double-stranded and are targeted to nucleic acid encoding eIF4E. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of eIF4E expression and for diagnosis and treatment of diseases and conditions associated with expression of eIF4E are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An antisense oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising at least 12 contiguous nucleobases of SEQ ID NO: 40, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof comprises at least one chemically modified sugar moiety, internucleoside linkage, or nucleobase. 2. The antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, wherein the chemically modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar moiety. 3. The antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 4. The antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 5. The antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1; wherein every internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage, nucleotides 1-5 and 16-20 reading from the 5' end to the 3' end of SEQ ID NO: 40 each comprise a 2'-O-(methoxyethyl) sugar, nucleotides 6-15 are 2'-deoxynucleotides, and every cytosine residue is a 5-methylcytosine. 6. The antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1 which is in the form of a sodium salt. 7. The antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is single stranded. 8. A pharmaceutical or veterinary composition, comprising said antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, and a pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable carrier, diluent, or excipient. 9. The pharmaceutical or veterinary composition of claim 8, which is in a form for parenteral administration. 10. The pharmaceutical or veterinary composition of claim 9, wherein said parenteral administration is via intravenous injection or infusion. 11. A method for treating a condition or disease associated with eIF4E expression or overexpression with the antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof of claim 1, comprising administering the antisense oligonucleotide or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to a subject in need thereof. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said condition or disease associated with eIF4E expression or overexpression is a hyperproliferative condition or disease. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said hyperproliferative condition or disease is a susceptible cancer, tumor, or condition characterized by aberrant angiogenesis. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said hyperproliferative condition or disease is selected from the group consisting of breast cancer, head and neck cancer, colorectal cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, bladder cancer, ovarian cancer, renal cancer, and glioblastoma. 