A method and apparatus for stopping oil flowing from the end of a ruptured pipe or other device, by mounting a flange on the end of the ruptured pipe or device, if a flange is not already present; providing a gate valve having a flange on its lower end to mate with the flange on the ruptured pipe or device; providing a permanently affixed gasket member on the mounting flange of the gate valve; lowering the gate valve to the depth of the flowing oil from the ruptured pipe or device; providing at least two flexible bolts through opposite openings in the flange of the gate valve; while the gate valve is situated adjacent the flowing pipe or device, threading each flexible bolt through two opposite openings in the flange of the ruptured pipe or device; placing pulling pressure on the lower ends of the two flexible bolts to pull the gate valve from a position adjacent the ruptured pipe or device to a second position where the gasket of the gate valve mounts against the face of the flange of the ruptured pipe or device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for stopping oil flowing from an end of a ruptured pipe or other device, comprising the following steps: a. mounting a flange on the end of the ruptured pipe or device, if a flange is not already present; b. providing a gate valve having a flange on its lower end to mate with the flange on the ruptured pipe or device; c. providing a permanently affixed gasket member on the mounting flange of the gate valve; d. lowering the gate valve to a depth of the flowing oil from the ruptured pipe or device; e. providing at least two flexible bolts through opposite openings in the flange of the gate valve; f. while the gate valve is situated adjacent the flowing pipe or device, threading each flexible bolt through two opposite openings in the flange of the ruptured pipe or device; g. placing pulling pressure on lower ends of the two flexible bolts to pull the gate valve from a position adjacent the ruptured pipe or device to a second position where the gasket of the gate valve mounts against a face of the flange of the ruptured pipe or device, while the gate valve is in the open position; h. continuing to hold the gate valve in place by the flexible bolts while inserting permanent bolts in the remaining openings of the mated flanges to secure the gate valve permanently in place; and i. closing the gate valve to stop the flow of oil. 2. The method in claim 1, further comprising the step of replacing the two flexible bolts with permanent bolts after the gate valve has been permanently mounted to the pipe or device. 3. The method in claim 1, wherein in deep water, the method is undertaken by one or more robotic units at the floor of the body of water. 4. The method in claim 1, wherein a flow bore through the gate valve is highly polished so as to decrease the friction of the oil flowing through the open valve during installation of the valve. 5. The method in claim 1, wherein both upper and lower ends of the flexible bolts are threaded to receive nuts to prevent the gate valve from escaping the hold of the robotic units during installation. 6. The method in claim 1, wherein each flexible bolt comprises a first solid upper end threaded, a second lower threaded end, a bore through a portion of a body of each of the upper and lower ends; a flexible metal rope, ends of which are permanently crimped into openings of upper and lower bolt ends to provide the flexibility of the bolts needed in the installation procedure. 7. The method in claim 1 wherein the other device comprises a blowout preventer (BOP). 8. A method of stopping oil from the end of a ruptured pipe or blowout preventer (BOP) situated on the floor of a deep body of water, comprising the following steps: a. mounting a flange on the end of the ruptured pipe or BOP, if a flange is not already present; b. providing a gate valve, having a highly polished fluid flow bore therethrough, and a flange on a lower end of the gate valve to mate with the flange on the ruptured pipe or BOP; c. providing a permanently affixed gasket member on the mounting flange of the gate valve to prevent the gasket from being released by pressure of oil flow; d. lowering the gate valve to a depth of flowing oil from the ruptured pipe or BOP; e. providing at least two flexible bolts through opposite openings in the flange of the gate valve, wherein each flexible bolt comprises (i) a first solid upper end threaded, (ii) a second lower threaded end, (iii) a bore through a portion of the body of each of the upper and lower ends, (iv) a flexible metal rope, ends of which are permanently crimped into the openings of the upper and lower bolt ends, to provide the flexibility of the bolts needed in the installation procedure; f. while the gate valve is situated adjacent the flowing pipe or device, threading each flexible bolt through two opposite openings in the flange of the ruptured pipe or BOP; g. placing pulling pressure on the lower ends of the two flexible bolts to pull the gate valve from a position adjacent the ruptured pipe or BOP to a second position where the gasket of the gate valve mounts against the face of the flange of the ruptured pipe or BOP, while the gate valve is in the open position; h. continuing to hold the gate valve in place by the flexible bolts while inserting permanent bolts in the remaining openings of the mated flanges to secure the gate valve permanently in place; and i. closing the gate valve to stop the flow of oil. 9. The method in claim 8, wherein the length of the flexible bolts is sufficient to allow the lower end of each flexible bolt to be threaded through the openings of the BOP while the gate valve is adjacent and not yet above the BOP and the flow of oil therefrom. 10. An apparatus of stopping oil from an end of a ruptured pipe or blowout preventer (BOP) situated on the floor of a deep body of water, comprising: a. a flange mounted on the end of the ruptured pipe or BOP, if a flange is not already present; b. a gate valve, having a highly polished fluid flow bore therethrough, and a flange on its lower end positioned onto the flange on the ruptured pipe or BOP; c. a permanently affixed gasket member on the mounting flange of the gate valve to prevent the gasket from being released by pressure of oil flow; d. the gate valve positioned to a depth of flowing oil from the ruptured pipe or BOP; e. two flexible bolts through opposite openings in the flange of the gate valve, wherein each flexible bolt comprises (i) a first solid upper end threaded, (ii) a second lower threaded end, (iii) a bore through a portion of the body of each of the upper and lower ends, (iv) a flexible metal rope, ends of which are permanently crimped into openings of the upper and lower bolt ends, to provide the flexibility of the bolts needed in the installation procedure; f. while the gate valve is situated adjacent the flowing pipe or device, each flexible bolt threaded through two opposite openings in the flange of the ruptured pipe or BOP; g. means for placing pulling pressure on the lower ends of the two flexible bolts to pull the gate valve from a position adjacent the ruptured pipe or BOP to a second position where the gasket of the gate valve mounts against the face of the flange of the ruptured pipe or BOP, while the gate valve is in the open position; h. two latching members mounted onto at least two bolt openings in the valve flange, so that when the valve flange is pulled against the flange of the BOP, a spring-loaded, moveable latch on each latching member engages against the lower face of the BOP flange and secures the valve against the BOP until permanent bolts can be installed; i. the gate valve held in place by the latching members while inserting permanent bolts in the remaining openings of the mated flanges to secure the gate valve permanently in place; and j. the gate valve is closed to stop the flow of oil. 11. The apparatus in claim 10, wherein the latching members are held in place on the valve by a flexible metal strap positioned around a wall of the valve. 12. The apparatus in claim 11, wherein the metal strap is removed from the valve after the permanent bolts are in place so that the latching members can be removed and replaced with permanent bolts also. 13. The apparatus in claim 10 wherein each of the two latching members comprise: a. a flexible member positioned around the wall of the gate valve above a flange of the valve; b. at least two spaced apart studs secured to the flexible member, each stud engaged into a bolt opening in the valve flange; c. a latch positioned on each stud, with each latch set in the inward position against the outer wall of the flange; d. a lower tooth member on each latch, so that when the gate valve is lowered onto the flange of the blowout preventer, each latch is forced outward until each tooth member clears the flange of the blowout preventer, and each latch returns to a closed position so that the teeth members are engaged onto a lower surface of the blowout preventer flange, and the valve is secured to the blowout preventer flange until permanent bolts are secured in place. 