An orthopedic device includes a femoral implant having a non-custom internal bone engagement surface. The femoral implant includes at least nine parameters adjusted preoperatively to correspond to a specific patient. The parameters can include patient-specific lengths, such as, for example, medial and lateral condyle widths and notch height, and patient-specific medial and lateral angles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An orthopedic device manufacturing method comprising: preparing pre-operatively a three-dimensional image of a patient's joint from imaging scans of the patient using computer modeling; selecting pre-operatively a non-custom femoral implant closely matching the joint and having a plurality of planar surfaces corresponding to planned planar resections of a femoral bone of the joint, the planned resections including an anterior cut plane, anterior chamfer plane, distal cut plane, posterior chamfer plane and posterior cut plane; manufacturing pre-operatively a customized femoral implant by a machining operation, the machining operation modifying at least six angles of the plurality of planar surfaces of the femoral implant to be patient-specific as determined from the three-dimensional image of the patient's joint, each patient-specific angle defined between a central plane perpendicular to a medial-lateral width of the femoral implant and lines connecting medial end points at medial edges between the planar resections and lateral points at lateral edges between the planar resections; manufacturing a patient-specific femoral alignment guide; coupling a removable tracking tag to the patient-specific femoral alignment guide for tracking the alignment guide from manufacture to surgery, the tracking tag including patient-specific information and configured to be removed prior to a corresponding surgical procedure; and preparing a surgical kit including the femoral implant and a patient-specific alignment guide for the surgical procedure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the six angles include three medial angles and three lateral angles of the implant. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising machining at least three lengths of the implant to be patient specific, as determined from the three-dimensional image of the patient's joint. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein machining at least three lengths of the implant to be patient specific includes machining a medial condyle width of the femoral implant. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein machining at least three lengths of the implant to be patient specific includes machining a lateral condyle width of the femoral implant. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein machining at least three lengths of the implant to be patient specific includes machining a notch height width of the femoral implant. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking the patient information from manufacture to implant procedure. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical kit includes additional surgeon-selected instruments. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the surgical kit is designed to be disposable. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the tracking tag is inserted in a pocket formed in an extension of the alignment guide. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the extension is frangible. 