A system and method of the present invention randomly mixes and palletizes various containers received from a conveyor. A control system received an order in advance to cooperate with an automatic storage and retrieval system to pick the containers, ordered by various customers, and to place them on a second conveyor. A robotic device, such as a robotic arm or a gantry system, selectively picks the containers from the second conveyor and places the containers on a pallet in a mixed fashion. The pallets are delivered to the respective customers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for filling, on a pallet, an order for a plurality of goods packed in containers having various configurations and sizes from a product supply source, comprising the steps of: receiving, at a controller, the order for the goods; placing containers required to fill the order onto an accumulating path leading from the product supply source to a palletizing position; identifying each container placed on the accumulating path, by reading a barcode on the container, using a bar code reader associated with the controller, and removing from the accumulating path, if necessary, any container not bearing a barcode associated with the order; verifying that each identified container on the accumulating path conforms with length, width, height and weight parameters associated with the barcode in a memory accessible to the controller, using sensors associated with the controller, and removing from the accumulating path any non-conforming containers; determining, using an algorithm associated with the controller, a position and orientation for palletizing in layers each of the containers required to fill the order; receiving each identified and conforming container at the palletizing position; and assembling the order on the pallet at the palletizing position, based upon the determined palletization orientation and position, using an articulating or gantry robot associated with the controller, the assembling step comprising the substeps of: recognizing the received identified and conforming container; and placing each recognized container, either onto a layer of the pallet being assembled, or into one of a plurality of buffer zones, each buffer zone associated with identified and conforming containers of a single type; and placing, as needed, a container from one of the buffer zones onto the layer of the pallet being assembled. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of assembling the order on the pallet further comprises the substep of determining dynamically in the controller a sequence in which the containers are to be palletized. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of identifying each container comprises scanning the container to identify SKU and type of product contained therein. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of verifying that each container conforms comprises the substep of measuring the length, the width, and the height of the container to determine if the container is open. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of verifying that each container conforms comprises the substep of checking the weight of the container to determine if the container is broken. 