A disk drive transporter, for transporting a disk drive and for mounting a disk drive within a test slot, includes a frame configured to receive and support a disk drive. The frame includes sidewalls configured to receive a disk drive therebetween and sized to be inserted into a test slot along with a disk drive. The frame also includes a clamping mechanism operatively associated with at least one of the sidewalls. The clamping mechanism includes a first engagement element and a first actuator operable to initiate movements of the first engagement element. The first actuator is operable to move the first engagement element into engagement with a test slot after a disk drive being supported by the frame is arranged in a test position in a test slot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disk drive test slot comprising: a housing defining: a test compartment for receiving a disk drive for testing; and an open end providing access to the test compartment for insertion and removal of the disk drive for testing; and a clamping mechanism mounted to the housing of the disk drive test slot, wherein the clamping mechanism that is mounted to the housing of the disk drive test slot is configured to engage the disk drive after the disk drive has been inserted into the test compartment; wherein the clamping mechanism comprises a plurality of arms and an engagement member; wherein an arm in the plurality of arms comprises a distal end; and wherein the disk drive test slot is configured so that, after the disk drive has been inserted into the test compartment, a displacement of the distal end on the arm of the clamping mechanism that is mounted to the housing of the disk drive test slot causes the engagement member to move towards the disk drive to engage with the disk drive. 2. The disk drive test slot of claim 1, wherein the clamping mechanism further comprises a clamping spring. 3. The disk drive test slot of claim 1, wherein the clamping mechanism further comprises a dampener. 4. The disk drive test slot of claim 3, wherein the dampener is configured to engage the disk drive received in the test compartment. 5. The disk drive test slot of claim 3, wherein the dampener comprises a dampening material selected from a group comprising of thermoplastics and thermosets. 6. The disk drive test slot of claim 1, wherein the engagement member comprises a first engagement member, wherein the clamping mechanism further comprises a second engagement member mounted to the housing, and wherein the first engagement member and the second engagement member are configured to clamp the disk drive therebetween. 7. The disk drive test slot of claim 1, wherein the housing defines one or more mounting holes, and wherein the clamping mechanism comprises one more retaining tabs which engage with the one or more mounting holes. 8. The disk drive test slot of claim 1, wherein the engagement member is mounted within the test compartment. 9. A test slot assembly comprising: a disk drive transporter configured to receive and to support a disk drive; and a test slot comprising: a housing defining: a test compartment for receiving and supporting the disk drive transporter; and an open end providing access to the test compartment for insertion and removal of the disk drive transporter; and a clamping mechanism mounted to the housing of the test slot, wherein the clamping mechanism that is mounted to the housing of the test slot is configured to engage the disk drive carried by the disk drive transporter after the disk drive transporter has been inserted into the test compartment; wherein the clamping mechanism comprises a plurality of arms and an engagement member; wherein an arm in the plurality of arms comprises a distal end; and wherein the test slot is configured so that after, the disk drive has been inserted into the test compartment, a displacement of the distal end on the arm of the clamping mechanism that is mounted to the housing of the test slot causes the engagement member to move towards the disk drive to engage with the disk drive. 10. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the disk drive transporter comprises a pass-through aperture, and wherein the engagement member is configured to extend through the pass-through aperture to engage the disk drive carried by the disk drive transporter. 11. The test slot assembly of claim 10, wherein the disk drive transporter comprises sidewalls configured to receive the disk drive therebetween, and wherein one of the sidewalls defines the pass-through aperture. 12. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the engagement member is configured such that during insertion of the disk drive transporter into the test compartment the engagement member is compressed by the disk drive transporter. 13. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the clamping mechanism comprises a ramp surface, and wherein, during insertion of the disk drive transporter into the test compartment, the disk drive transporter engages the ramp surface causing the engagement member to be compressed. 14. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the clamping mechanism further comprises a clamping spring. 15. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the clamping mechanism further comprises a dampener. 16. The test slot assembly of claim 15, wherein the dampener is configured to engage the disk drive inserted in the test compartment. 17. The test slot assembly of claim 15, wherein the dampener comprises a dampening material selected from a group comprising thermoplastics and thermosets. 18. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the engagement member comprises a first engagement member, wherein the clamping mechanism further comprises a second engagement member mounted to the housing, and wherein the first engagement member and the second engagement member are configured to clamp the disk drive therebetween. 19. The test slot assembly of claim 18, wherein the disk drive transporter comprises pass-through apertures, and wherein the first and second engagement members are configured to extend through the pass-through apertures to engage the disk drive carried by the disk drive transporter. 20. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the engagement member is mounted within the test compartment. 