A method for monitoring and predicting health of tape drives and media in a tape library. The method includes receiving exchange data associated with an exchange in the tape library. Then the method includes, with an analytics module, processing the exchange data to determine gain types for the exchange. Based on the gain type, a health gain value is assigned to a tape drive and media and current suspicion level values are independently assigned to the tape drive and the media. The method includes assigning a first health indicator to the media and a second health indicator to the tape drive based on these two suspicion level values. In some embodiments of the method, the current suspicion level value calculating step includes summing the health gain value with a number of health gain values assigned to the tape drive and the media for up to a predefined number of monitored exchanges.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of monitoring tape drives and media in a tape library, comprising: with a computer running an analytics module, receiving exchange data associated with an exchange in the tape library; with the analytics module, processing the exchange data to determine a gain type for the exchange; based on the gain type, assigning a health gain value to a tape drive and media involved in the exchange; with the analytics module, independently calculating a current suspicion level value for the tape drive and a current suspicion level for the media; and assigning a first health indicator to the media and a second health indicator to the tape drive. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the current suspicion level value calculating comprises summing the health gain value with a number of health gain values assigned to the tape drive and the media for up to a predefined number of monitored exchanges. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the predefined number is at least five, whereby the current suspicion level is assigned based on performance of up to at least five completed exchanges. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein at least two of the completed exchanges involve a different drive for the media and a different media for the tape drive. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the gain type and associated one of the health gain values differs for a failure on a subsequent exchange within the number of monitored exchanges that occurs with a same drive or media and for a failure on a subsequent exchange within the number of monitored exchanges that occurs with a different drive or media. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the health gain value is selected from a plurality of numerical values, the numerical values being of differing magnitude and including both negative and positive values, whereby each exchange may increase or decrease the current suspicion level value for the tape drive and the media. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the exchange data comprises operational data from a monitoring agent on the tape drive and wherein the operational data is converted to the gain type by accessing a lookup table categorizing the operational data for conversion to gain types. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the exchange data comprises read or write information. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the processing of the exchange data to determine the gain type based on performance measures of efficiency or margin. 10. The method of claim 9, where the performance measures are weighted based on a size of an exchange corresponding to the exchange data. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second health indicators are selected from a group including a health indicator corresponding with a predicted failure during future use of a tape drive or media. 12. A data storage system configured for monitoring and analyzing components of a tape infrastructure, comprising: a tape library comprising a plurality of tape drives and a plurality of tape media for use in the tape drives; a server communicatively linked to the tape library; a tape analytics database in memory; and on the server, a storage tape analytics application extracting data sets from the tape library corresponding to operations of the tape library including use of the tape drives and the tape media during data storage in the tape library, the storage tape analytics application storing the extracted data sets in the tape analytics database, wherein the storage tape analytics application processes the extracted data sets to determine a health gain value for one of the tape drives and one of the media for each exchange occurring in the tape library. 13. The data storage system of claim 11, wherein the extracted data sets include performance metrics for the exchanges in the tape library including data corresponding with at least one of read and write efficiencies and read and write margins and wherein the tape analytics database stores information identifying a tape drive and media involved in each of the exchanges. 14. The data storage system of claim 12, wherein the storage tape analytics application generates a suspicion level value for the one tape drive and the one media by calculating a sum including the health gain value and previously assigned health gain values for a number of past exchanges stored in the tape analytics database. 15. The data storage system of claim 14, wherein the storage tape analytics assigns a health indicator to the one tape drive and the one media based on the generated suspicion level values. 16. The data storage system of claim 15, wherein the health indicators include a first indicator associated with acceptable current and future performance in the tape library and a second indicator associated with a prediction of unacceptable future performance in the tape library. 17. The data storage system of claim 12, wherein the storage tape analytics application independently predicts future performance of the one tape drive and the one media based on the determined health gain values and based on a set of previously determined health gain values for a monitored number of past exchanges occurring in the tape library. 18. A tape analytics method, comprising: providing a data transport mechanism between an analytics server and a tape library; with the analytics server, receiving exchange data providing performance metrics and failure information for a first exchange and a second exchange; determining health gain values for the first exchange and the second exchange based on the exchange data; with the analytics server, summing the health gain values for each tape drive and each media involved in the first and second exchanges to determine a current suspicion level value for the tape drives and the media; generating a health indicator representative of operational health for each of the tape drives and the media based on the current suspicion levels. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the summing includes summing the health gain values with up to a predetermined number of previously calculated health gain values associated with prior exchanges involving the tape drives and the media. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the health indicator indicates proactive maintenance or replacement of one of the tape drives or the media prior to failure in the tape library with a hard or fatal error, wherein the health gain values for the first exchange differ from the health gain values for the second exchange, and wherein the health gain values are selected from numerical values including differing magnitude values and positive and negative values. 