The invention provides an improved method and robotic apparatus for applying a structural membrane lining in conduits. The remotely controlled robot comprises a series of segment blocks maintained in alignment by flexible linear rods supported in spherical swivel bushings. The rods allow for articulation as the robot negotiates bends. Segment blocks include radial guide finger pinions and guide fingers for concentric positioning. Fingers are of engineered plastics and brass to provide ballast weight for perpendicular alignment and contain high frequency air turbine vibrators. Steering vertebrae are included to maintain concentricity of the lining dissipation cup through bends. Also included are electric servo motors controlling cables and take up wheels controlling the angle of the segment blocks.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device comprising a) a plurality of segment blocks comprising said device; b) a flexible center spring component of bendable wire attached to the center of each segment block to maintain a longitudinal orientation of the segment blocks; c) a plurality of parallel linear alignment rods extending longitudinally through slideably connecting swivel bearings mounted on the radial periphery of the segment blocks, said swivel bearings allowing axial movement of the alignment rods and providing independent movement of the segment blocks, and d) a dissipation device mounted in an axial center at an end of the device. 2. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 1 further comprising at least one linear alignment rod that is flexible. 3. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 1 further comprising guide finger pinion rings and pivoting guide fingers. 4. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 3 further comprising pivoting guide fingers having a curved outer surface substantially equal to the outside internal radius of a pipe bend. 5. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 1 further comprising at least one pivoting guide finger operably connected to an air turbine vibrator. 6. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 1 further comprising positioning the guide pinion rings on each segment block in an offset radial orientation. 7. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 1 further comprising two or more expandable and retractable rigid steering vertebrae operably and radially connected to at least one segment block in two different radial positions wherein one steering vertebrae is expanded and the other steering vertebrae retracts. 8. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 7 further comprising the expandable and retractable steering vertebrae wherein the steering vertebrae is remotely controllable. 9. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 8 wherein the remotely controllable expandable and retractable steering vertebrae maneuvers a lining dissipation component to the center of a pipe bend. 10. The multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 8 wherein the remotely controllable expandable and retractable steering vertebrae are electro-mechanical actuators that extend or retract. 11. A multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device comprising a plurality of independently oriented segment blocks joined by a flexible center component and pipe lining device components are each mounted to only one segment block surface of at least one segment block. 12. A multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 11 further comprising a rotatable pipe lining dissipation device extending from a front segment block. 13. A multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 12 wherein the pipe lining dissipation device is positioned substantially in the center of a pipe bend while the multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device traverse through the pipe bend. 14. A multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 12 wherein the front segment block is positioned at an angle beyond a plane perpendicular to the centerline of the pipe. 15. A multi-segmented, flexible pipe lining device of claim 12 wherein the pipe lining dissipation device is positioned substantially in the center of a pipe bend by simultaneously retracting a steering vertebrae and extending a different steering vertebrae. 