A system for retaining a film on a single-piece frame includes a frame having a shape with a center open area larger than the film, the frame comprising a plurality of fingers on the frame extending into the open area, and a barb positioned on an end of each of the plurality of fingers, wherein the barbs retain the film. The system also includes an end effecter comprising a first and second plurality of vacuum line openings, wherein the end effecter holds onto the film with the first plurality of vacuum line openings and holds onto the frame with the second plurality of vacuum line openings, wherein the end effecter picks up the film with the first plurality of vacuum line openings and presses the film onto the frame, wherein pressing the film onto the frame will retain the film on the barbs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A single piece apparatus for retaining a film comprising: a frame having a shape with a center open area larger than the film; a plurality of fingers on the frame extending into the open area; and a barb positioned on an end of each of the plurality of fingers, wherein the barbs retain the film. 2. The single piece apparatus of claim 1, wherein the barbs retain the film by piercing the film. 3. The single piece apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fingers have a downward slope. 4. The single piece apparatus of claim 1, wherein the single piece apparatus for retaining the film is no more than 3.5 mm thick. 5. The single piece apparatus of claim 1, wherein the barb comprises an undercut. 6. The single piece apparatus of claim 1, wherein the frame has a rectangular shape, and wherein at least one of the plurality of fingers is located in each corner of the frame. 7. The single piece apparatus of claim 1, wherein the frame is formed of a high temperature polymer. 8. The single piece apparatus of claim 7, wherein the high temperature polymer comprises polyether ether ketone or polyvinylidene fluoride. 9. The single piece apparatus of claim 1, wherein the film comprises a singulated film of polyester with a gallium arsenide layer on it. 10. A system for retaining a film on a single-piece frame comprising: a frame having a shape with a center open area larger than the film, the frame comprising a plurality of fingers on the frame extending into the open area; and a barb positioned on an end of each of the plurality of fingers, wherein the barbs retain the film; and an end effecter comprising a first and second plurality of vacuum line openings, wherein the end effecter holds onto the film with the first plurality of vacuum line openings and holds onto the frame with the second plurality of vacuum line openings, wherein the end effecter picks up the film with the first plurality of vacuum line openings and presses the film onto the frame, wherein pressing the film onto the frame will retain the film on the barbs. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the end effecter picks up the frame with the retained film with the second plurality of vacuum line openings and positions the frame/film assembly for processing. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the end effecter picks up the frame with the second plurality of vacuum line openings and prepositions the frame before picking up the film with the first plurality of vacuum line openings to press the film onto the frame. 13. The single piece apparatus of claim 10, wherein the barbs retain the film by piercing the film. 14. The single piece apparatus of claim 13, wherein the end effecter comprises circular cavities corresponding to each barb location, such that as the end effecter pushes down against the frame and against the barbs, the film deflects into the circular cavity until the film fails and the barb pushes through. 15. The single piece apparatus of claim 10, wherein the fingers have a downward slope. 16. The single piece apparatus of claim 10, wherein the single piece apparatus for retaining the film is no more than 3.5 mm thick. 17. The single piece apparatus of claim 10, wherein the barb comprises an undercut. 18. The single piece apparatus of claim 10, wherein the frame has a rectangular shape, and wherein at least one of the plurality of fingers is located in each corner of the frame. 19. The single piece apparatus of claim 10, wherein the frame is formed of a high temperature polymer. 20. The single piece apparatus of claim 19, wherein the high temperature polymer comprises polyether ether ketone or polyvinylidene fluoride. 21. The single piece apparatus of claim 10, wherein the film comprises a singulated film of polyester with a gallium arsenide layer on it. 22. A method for retaining a film on a single-piece frame comprising: picking up the film with an end-effecter, wherein the end-effecter picks up the film with a first plurality of vacuum line openings; moving the film with the end-effecter to a single-piece frame and pressing the film onto the frame to retain the film, wherein the frame comprises a shape with a center open area larger than the film, the frame comprising: a plurality of fingers on the frame extending into the open area; and a barb positioned on an end of each of the plurality of fingers, wherein the barbs retain the film by piercing the film. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the frame has a rectangular shape, and wherein at least one of the plurality of fingers is located in each corner of the frame. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the end effecter comprises circular cavities corresponding to each barb location, such that as the end effecter pushes down against the frame and against the barbs, the film deflects into the circular cavity until the film fails and the barb pushes through. 