A foot for a humanoid robot includes a sole having an upright secured thereto, toes, a motorized connection, independent of the ankle, in rotation between the sole and the toes, wherein the toes are able to move on an angular travel about an axis of the connection, an actuator formed of a linear jack coupled to the upright and the toes, allowing the connection to be motorized, and means for controlling the actuator in a standalone manner. The foot is of particular utility in the production of humanoid robots coming as close as possible to the human morphology.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A foot for a humanoid robot, that can be connected to a leg by means of an ankle, the foot comprising: a sole having an upright secured thereto; toes; a connection, independent of the ankle, in rotation between the sole and the toes, the toes being able to move on an angular travel about an axis of the connection; an actuator formed of a linear jack coupled to the upright and the toes, allowing the connection to be motorized; and means for controlling the actuator in a standalone manner, wherein the means for controlling the actuator makes it possible to choose a state from one of: a complete rigidity of the connection; a restoring torque that is a function of the angular travel of the connection; a damping of the rotation of the connection; and an addition of power during the rotation of the connection. 2. The foot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the connection allows a rotation of the toes relative to the sole in a sagittal plane of the foot. 3. The foot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the jack makes a movement on an axis contained in a sagittal plane of the foot. 4. The foot as claimed in claim 3, wherein, when the toes are aligned with the sole, the axis of the jack is inclined relative to a main plane of the sole to allow the toes to be lowered beneath the main plane of the sole. 5. The foot as claimed in claim 4, wherein an end of the jack is coupled to the upright above the main plane to always maintain an angle of convergence between the axis of the jack and a toe axis defined between the connection and a point where an opposite end of the jack is coupled to the toes. 6. The foot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the jack is electric or hydraulic. 7. The foot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the jack is a double-acting jack making it possible to lower or to raise the toes. 8. The foot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the jack is a single-acting jack designed to push on the toes so as to lower them. 9. A humanoid robot, comprising at least one foot as claimed in claim 1. 