Apparatus for accurate positioning of a needle guide is disclosed. The apparatus provides a means for taking as input the position vector for the point of insertion of the needle into the body. This point of insertion can be selected from images produced by a Computer Tomography system. Similarly, the apparatus has a means for taking as input the point of target. A controller determines the directional vector between point of insertion and point of target. A guide manipulator accurately positions the needle guide in line with the directional vector, such that the needle can easily be inserted through the guide to the point of target. The positioning of the guide manipulator in accordance with the directional vector is done with the help of motors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a support base configured to be movable to a desired position on a floor adjacent a movable cradle of an imaging system and lockable at the desired position relative to the imaging system; a guide manipulator supported on the support base, the guide manipulator configured to position a needle guide at a target location with respect to a patient disposed on the movable cradle, the target location being outside an imaging space of the imaging system such that a needle can be inserted through the needle guide at the target location, through an insertion point on the patient, and into a target point within the patient; and processing circuitry configured to: receive images of the patient from the imaging system; determine, based at least in part on the received images, a location of the insertion point relative to a gantry of the imaging system when the patient is disposed on the movable cradle and the movable cradle is disposed outside of the imaging space of the imaging system such that the insertion point is outside of the imaging space; determine a directional vector between the insertion point and the target point; determine the target location of the needle guide to be in line with the directional vector based at least in part on the determined location of the insertion point and the directional vector; and cause the guide manipulator to be moved to position the needle guide at the target location. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support base is selectively lockable to a docking system. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the target location of the needle guide is determined at least in part based upon a position of the support base with respect to the imaging system. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target point within the patient based at least in part on the images received from the imaging system, and the target location of the needle guide is determined at least in part based on the insertion point and the target point and coordinates derived from the desired position of the support base with respect to the imaging system. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the guide manipulator includes a positioning element, the positioning element including first and second members, the first and second members configured to rotate about mutually perpendicular axes. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a skin level sensor adapted to be disposed on a skin surface of the patient and to provide signals to the processing circuitry indicating whether a correction of a spatial orientation of the needle guide is needed. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the guide manipulator has five axes of movement. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a display portion coupled to the processing circuitry and configured to display image data received from the imaging system. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the imaging system is a computed tomography system. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target location of the needle guide based at least in part upon a length of a needle to be inserted through the needle guide such that a predetermined portion of the length of the needle can be inserted relative to the needle guide, through the insertion point, and into the target point. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the insertion point and the target point based at least in part on the images received from the imaging system, and the target location of the needle guide is determined at least in part based on the insertion point and the target point and a length of a needle to be inserted through the needle guide such that a predetermined portion of the length of the needle can be inserted relative to the needle guide, through the insertion point, and into the target point. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to position the needle guide at the target location such that the needle guide is in a fixed position relative to the patient and such that a needle can be inserted through the needle guide and moved relative to the needle guide. 13. An apparatus, comprising: a mobile support base configured to be positionable at a location relative to an imaging system; a guide manipulator supported on the support base and configured to position a needle guide at a target location with respect to a patient disposed on the movable patient cradle when the support base is at the location relative to the imaging system, the target location being outside an imaging space of the imaging system such that a needle can be inserted through the needle guide at the target location, through an insertion point on the patient, and into a target point within the patient; and processing circuitry configured to: determine the location relative to the imaging system in which the support base is to be positioned; receive images of the patient from the imaging system; determine, based at least in part on the received images, a location of the insertion point relative to a gantry of the imaging system when the patient is disposed on the movable cradle and the movable cradle is disposed outside of the imaging space of the imaging system such that the insertion point is outside of the imaging space; determine a directional vector between the insertion point and the target point; determine the target location of the needle guide to be in line with the directional vector based at least in part on the determined location of the insertion point and the directional vector; and cause the guide manipulator to be moved to position the needle guide at the target location relative to the patient such that the needle guide is in a fixed position relative to the movable patient cradle. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target location of the needle guide and to cause the guide manipulator to be moved to position the needle guide at the target location relative to the patient based at least in part upon the images received from the imaging system. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a skin level sensor adapted to be disposed on a skin surface of the patient and to provide an indication to the processing circuitry whether a correction to a spatial orientation of the needle guide is needed. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the insertion point and the target point based at least in part on the images received from the imaging system, and the processing circuitry is configured to determine the location of the needle guide based at least in part on the insertion point and the target point and a length of a needle to be inserted through the needle guide such that a predetermined portion of the length of the needle can be inserted relative to the needle guide, through the insertion point, and into the target point. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the insertion point and the target point based at least in part on the images received from the imaging system, and the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target location to position the needle guide at least in part based on the insertion point and the target point and coordinates derived from the position of the support base with respect to the imaging system. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target location and to position the needle guide at the target location such that the needle guide is in a fixed position relative to the patient and such that a needle can be inserted through the needle guide and moved relative to the needle guide. 19. An apparatus, comprising: a support base, the support base including a plurality of wheels, the plurality of wheels configured to support the support base and to allow the support base to be moveable to and from a desired position relative to an imaging system, the support base configured to be locked at the desired position; a guide manipulator supported on the support base and configured to position a needle guide at a target location with respect to a patient disposed on a movable patient cradle of the imaging system, the target location being outside of an imaging space of the imaging system, the needle guide configured to provide a guide to insert a needle through an insertion point on the patient and into a target point within the patient when the patient is disposed on the movable patient cradle; and processing circuitry configured to: receive images of the patient from the imaging system; determine, based at least in part on the received images, a location of the insertion point relative to a gantry of the imaging system when the patient is disposed on the movable cradle and the movable cradle is disposed outside of the imaging space of the imaging system such that the insertion point is outside of the imaging space; determine a directional vector between the insertion point and the target point; determine the target location of the needle guide to be in line with the directional vector based at least in part on the determined location of the insertion point and the directional vector; and cause the guide manipulator to be moved to position the needle guide at the target location. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the support base is selectively lockable to a docking system. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a skin level sensor adapted to be disposed on a skin surface of the patient and to provide signals to the processing circuitry indicating whether a correction of a spatial orientation of the needle guide is needed. 22. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target location of the needle guide based at least in part upon the images received from the imaging system. 23. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the insertion point and the target point based at least in part on the images received from the imaging system and to determine the target location of the needle guide based at least in part on the insertion point and the target point and coordinates derived from the desired position of the support base relative to the imaging system. 24. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the insertion point and the target point based at least in part on the images received from the imaging system and to determine the target location of the needle guide based at least in part on the insertion point and the target point and a length of a needle to be inserted through the needle guide such that a predetermined portion of the length of the needle can be inserted relative to the needle guide, through the insertion point, and into the target point. 25. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target location of the needle guide based at least in part on a length of a needle to be inserted through the needle guide and through the insertion point such that a predetermined portion of the needle can be inserted through the insertion point and into the target point. 26. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the target location and to position the needle guide at the target location such that the needle guide is in a fixed position relative to the patient and such that a needle can be inserted through the needle guide and moved relative to the needle guide. 