A method and apparatus of a positioning system are described to position an upper-half of a body relative to a head-end of a couch. The positioning system may be a patient positioning system and may include a treatment couch, a leg rest coupled to the treatment couch, and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest. The patient positioning system may also include a treatment couch, having a base portion of a treatment couch and plurality of detachable portions of the treatment couch. The plurality of detachable portions to adjust a height of the treatment couch to accommodate differing heights of patients.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: providing a leg rest coupled to a couch; and mechanically adjusting an upper-half of a body, disposed on the couch, relative to a head-end of the couch by moving the entire leg rest along a longitudinal axis of the couch to move the upper-half of the body relative to the head-end of the couch without extending an upper edge of the leg rest beyond an upper edge of the couch while the body is disposed on the couch. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising positioning a head of the body at the head-end of the couch where there is substantially no space between the head and the head-end of the couch. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising positioning a head of the body at the head-end of the couch where there is a specified distance between the head of the patient and the head-end of the couch. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein mechanically adjusting the upper-half of the body comprises moving the leg rest using at least one of a motorized drive mechanism or a manual drive mechanism. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising detaching the leg rest from the couch. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising rotating the leg rest about a pivot point of the leg rest. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprises rotating the leg rest about one or more additional pivot points of the leg rests. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising positioning the leg rest to be substantially flat with respect to a plane of a top surface of the couch by rotating the leg rest about at least one of the pivot point and the one or more additional pivot points. 9. An apparatus, comprising: a couch; a leg rest coupled to the couch; and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest, the drive mechanism to move the entire leg rest along a longitudinal axis of the couch to move an upper-half of a body with respect to a head-end of the couch, the drive mechanism to move the leg rest between a loading position and a treating position of the couch. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the drive mechanism is to position a head of the body at the head-end of the couch where there is substantially no space between the head and the head-end of the couch. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the drive mechanism is to position a head of the body at the head-end of the couch where there is a specified distance between the head of the patient and the head-end of the couch. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the drive mechanism is a motorized drive mechanism 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the motorized drive mechanism comprises a rack and pinion gear. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the motorized drive mechanism comprises a single ball screw drive system coupled to the leg rest. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the single ball screw system comprises a telescopic ball screw. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the motorized drive mechanism comprises at least one of a linear actuator, a pneumatic cylinder, or a regular drive screw driven by a stepper motor. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the motorized drive mechanism comprises a dual ball screw drive system coupled to the leg rest. 18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the motorized drive mechanism is positioned at a centerline of the couch. 19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the motorized drive mechanism is positioned at an off-center line, the off-center line having an offset distance from a centerline of the couch. 20. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the leg rest is detachable. 21. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the leg rest comprises a pivot point. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the pivot point is a motorized pivot point. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the leg rest comprises one or more additional pivot points to permit the leg rest to be positioned substantially flat with respect to a plan of a top surface of the couch. 24. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a sliding member coupled to the leg rest, the sliding member to move with the leg rest along the longitudinal axis of the couch, wherein the sliding member prevents the upper-half of the body from being pinched between the leg rest and the couch as the leg rest moves along the longitudinal axis. 25. An apparatus, comprising: a couch having a head-end; a leg rest coupled to the couch; and means for moving the entire leg rest along longitudinal axis of the couch to mechanically adjust an upper-half relative to the head-end of the couch and moving the leg rest between a loading position and a treating position of the couch. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the leg rest is coupled to the couch at a pivot point at an upper end of the leg rest, the upper end of the leg rest being closer to the head-end of the couch than a lower end of the leg rest, and wherein the apparatus further comprises means for rotating the leg rest about he pivot point. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the leg rest comprises a plurality of pivot points, and wherein the apparatus further comprises means for rotating the leg rest about the plurality of pivot points to position the leg rest to be substantially flat with respect to a plan of a top surface of the couch. 28. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising means for positioning the leg rest to be substantially flat with respect to a plan of a top surface of the couch. 29. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising means for detaching the leg rest from the couch. 30. An apparatus, comprising: a treatment couch comprising: a base portion; and a ratchet portion of the treatment couch coupled to the base portion of the treatment couch, the ratchet portion to adjust a height of the treatment couch to accommodate differing heights of bodies; a leg rest coupled to the treatment couch; and a drive mechanism coupled to the leg rest, the drive mechanism to move the entire leg rest along a longitudinal axis of the treatment couch to move the upper-half of the body relative to the head-end of the treatment couch, the drive mechanism to move the leg rest between a loading position and a treating position of the treatment couch. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the leg rest is detachable. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising: a radiation treatment system comprising a radiation source; a patient positioning system to position a patient with respect to the radiation source of the radiation treatment system, the patient positioning system comprising the treatment couch, the leg rest, and the drive mechanism. 