Alignment of each of a plurality of depending first conductive members (16), in an array of orthogonal rows and columns on an article (12), with a corresponding second conductive member (18) arranged in a like array on a substrate (14), is accomplished by positioning the article in spaced relationship from the substrate. The arrays of first and second conductive members (16,18) are first angularly aligned by rotating the article (12) so that the offset between a first column of first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively, as seen by a television camera (32) at a first end of the article and substrate is the same as the offset between a second column of first and second members on the article and substrate, respectively, at the other end thereof as seen by a second camera (30). Translational alignment of the arrays of first and second conductive members (16,18) is accomplished by displacing the substrate (14) so that the first and second conductive members in the first column on the article and substrate, respectively, are aligned at the same time that the first and second conductive members in the first row of first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively, are aligned.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for registering an article with a substrate such that each of a plurality of first conductive members, depending from the article in an array of orthogonal rows and columns, is aligned with a separate one of a plurality of second conductive members arranged in a like array on the substrate, comprising the steps of: (a) placing the article in spaced relationship from the substrate so that each first conductive member is proximate to a corresponding second conductive member; (b) capturing a first image of at least a portion of a first column of first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively, lying closest to a first end thereof; (c) capturing a second image of a portion of a second column of first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively, lying closest to a second, opposite end thereof, the first and second conductive members in the second image each lying directly opposite to a corresponding first and second member, respectively, in the first image when the article and substrate are angularly aligned; (d) determining the angular misalignment, if any, between the article and the substrate in accordance with the difference in the offset between the first and second conductive members in the first and second images; (e) rotating the article relative to the substrate in accordance with the degree of angular misalignment between them to achieve angular alignment; (f) capturing a third image of at least a portion of a first row of first and second conductive members, respectively, on the article and the substrate, respectively, lying along a first edge thereof, perpendicular to each of the ends; (g) establishing the translational misalignment, if any, between the article and the substrate in accordance with the offset between each of the first and second conductive members in each of the first and third images; and (h) translating the substrate relative to the article in accordance with the amount of translational misalignment to align each first conductive member on the article with each second conductive member on the substrate. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first image is obtained by training a first television camera opposite a first end of the article and substrate. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the third image is obtained by training a second television camera opposite a first side of the article and substrate. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the second image is obtained by the steps of: (a) positioning a mirror opposite the second end of the article and the substrate to reflect the image of a portion of a second column of first and second conductive members, on the article and substrate, respectively; and (b) displacing the second television so that the camera captures the image reflected by the mirror. 5. The method according to claim 3 further including the steps of: (a) displacing the first camera so as to capture a fourth image of another portion of the first column of the first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively; (b) displacing the second camera so as to capture a fifth image of another portion of the first row of first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively; (c) establishing the translational misalignment, if any, between the article and the substrate in accordance with the offset between each of the first and second conductive members in each of the fourth and fifth images; and (d) translating the substrate relative to the article in accordance with the amount of translational misalignment to align each first conductive member on the article with each second conductive member on the substrate. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the steps (a)-(d) are repeated to achieve translational alignment of the article relative to the substrate within a predetermined tolerance. 7. The method according to claim 5 further including the steps of: (a) displacing the second camera so as to capture a sixth image of another portion of the second column of first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively; (b) determining the angular misalignment, if any, between the article and the substrate in accordance with the difference in the offset between the first and second conductive members in the fourth and sixth images; (c) rotating the article relative to the substrate in accordance with the degree of angular misalignment between them to achieve angular alignment therebetween. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the step of displacing the first camera and the steps of (a)-(c) are repeated until rotational alignment of the article with the substrate within a predetermined tolerance is achieved. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first column of the first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively, in the first image is illuminated with dark field illumination. 10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first row of the first and second conductive members on the article and substrate, respectively, in the third image is illuminated with dark field illumination. 