A paint booth facility for painting truck cabs and attachments in which electronic robots operating electrostatic paint guns apply successive coats of paint. The object to be painted is indexed through a series of spray booths, flash-off booths and finally curing ovens all of which have a contained atmosphere. The level of volatile organic compounds (VOC) in the paint booth atmosphere is not permitted to exceed 25% of its lower explosive limit but is maintained at a level that is higher than permitted in paint booths that are occupied by humans. A portion of the recirculated paint booth atmosphere is directed to a thermal oxidizer where it is ignited autogeneously, and this portion is replaced by fresh air that has been conditioned.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth which comprises the steps of: (a) recirculating the paint booth atmosphere to enrich the volatile organic compounds contained therein; (b) filtering the paint booth atmosphere to eliminate impurities; (c) air-conditioning the paint booth atmosphere to maintain a constant temperature and humidity in the paint booth; (d) applying paint to articles in the paint booth with a paint dispenser that is under the control of a robot; (e) supplying paint that includes multiple solvents to the paint dispenser; (f) controlling the solvent concentration in the paint booth atmosphere such that the evaporation rate of the newly applied paint prevents sag; and (g) maintaining an upper limit of fifteen percent saturation for any one solvent in the paint booth atmosphere. 2. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 1 including the additional step of: (h) scrubbing the paint booth atmosphere to remove paint particles that are suspended therein. 3. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that has solvents that are low vapor pressure solvents. 4. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 3, including the additional step of: (h) scrubbing the paint booth atmosphere to remove paint particles that are suspended therein. 5. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes at least three solvents, none of which comprise more than 50% of the total solvents. 6. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 5 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that has solvents that are low vapor pressure solvents. 7. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 5 including the additional step of: (h) scrubbing the paint booth atmosphere to remove paint particles that are suspended therein. 8. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth which comprises the steps of: (a) containing the atmosphere of a paint booth; (b) providing robot controlled electrostatic paint dispensing means within said paint booth; (c) selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents; (d) feeding the selected paint to the paint dispensing means within the paint booth from external of the paint booth; (e) controlling the solvent concentration in the paint booth atmosphere by maintaining an upper limit of fifteen percent saturation for any one solvent such that urethane clearcoat and thermal setting acrylic paints can be applied and the flash-off rate of the newly applied paint is adequate to prevent sagging of the paint; (f) monitoring and controlling the volatile organic compounds present in the paint booth atmosphere such that the level of volatile organic compounds does not exceed 25% of its lower explosive level; and (g) applying paint to articles in the paint booth with the robot controlled electrostatic paint dispensing means. 9. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 8 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes at least three solvents, none of which comprise more than 50% of the total solvents. 10. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 8 wherein said the step of selecting a paint that included multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that has solvents that are low vapor pressure solvents. 11. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 8 wherein the step of monitoring and controlling the volatile organic compounds includes the steps of: (h) providing a thermal oxidizer externally of the paint booth; (i) connecting the paint booth and the thermal oxidizer; (j) feeding a controlled amount of paint booth atmosphere to the thermal oxidizer; and (k) oxidizing the paint booth atmosphere that has been fed to the thermal oxidizer. 12. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes at least three solvents, none of which comprise more than 50% of the total solvents. 13. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 11, wherein the following additional steps are performed: (l) recirculating the paint booth atmosphere; and (m) adding fresh air to the paint booth atmosphere being recirculated in an amount equal to the amount of paint booth atmosphere that was fed to the thermal oxidizer. 14. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 13 including the additional step of: (n) scrubbing the paint booth atmosphere to remove paint particles that are suspended therein. 15. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 13 including the additional steps of: (n) filtering the added fresh air to remove impurities; and (o) air-conditioning the added fresh air to control its temperature and humidity. 16. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 11 including the additional step of: (l) scrubbing the paint booth atmosphere to remove paint particles that are suspended therein. 17. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 16 including the additional steps of: (m) filtering the added fresh air to remove impurities; and (n) air-conditioning the added fresh air to control its temperature and humidity. 18. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 11 wherein the step of feeding a controlled amount of paint booth atmosphere to the thermal oxidizer further includes the steps of: (l) feeding the paint booth atmosphere to a heat exchange chamber of the thermal oxidizer where its temperature is increased; (m) feeding the increased temperature paint booth atmosphere to a combustion chamber of the thermal oxidizer where the step of oxidizing the paint booth atmosphere takes place; and (n) utilizing the heat generated from the oxidation of the paint booth atmosphere in the combustion chamber to increase the temperature in the heat exchange chamber. 19. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth which comprise the steps of: (a) containing the atmosphere of a paint booth; (b) providing robot controlled electrostatic paint dispensing means within said paint booth; (c) feeding paint to the paint dispensing means within the paint booth from external of the paint booth; (d) controlling the solvent concentration in the paint booth atmosphere such that urethane clearcoat and thermal setting acrylic paints can be applied and the flash-off rate of the newly applied paint is adequate to prevent sagging of the paint; (e) monitoring and controlling the percent saturation for any one solvent present in the paint booth atmosphere such that the percent saturation for any one solvent does not exceed 15% to thus insure safe operation of the paint booth facility; and (f) applying paint to articles in the paint booth with the robot controlled electrostatic paint dispensing means. 20. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 19 wherein the step of feeding paint to the paint dispenser further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents. 21. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 20 wherein the step of selecting a paint that included multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that has solvents that are low vapor pressure solvents. 22. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 21 including the additional step of: (g) scrubbing the paint booth atmosphere to remove paint particles that are suspended therein. 23. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 20 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes at least three solvents, none of which comprise more than 50% of the total solvents. 24. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 19 wherein the step of monitoring and controlling the percent saturation for any one solvent in the paint booth atmosphere includes the additional steps of: (g) providing a thermal oxidizer externally of the paint booth; (h) connecting the paint booth and the thermal oxidizer; (i) feeding a controlled amount of paint booth atmosphere to the thermal oxidizer; and (j) oxidizing the paint booth atmosphere that has been fed to the thermal oxidizer. 25. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 24 including the additional steps of: (k) recirculating the paint booth atmosphere; (l) adding fresh air to the paint booth atmosphere being recirculated in an amount equal to the amount of paint booth atmosphere that was fed to the thermal oxidizer; (m) filtering the added fresh air to remove impurities; and (n) air-conditioning the added fresh air to control its temperature and humidity. 26. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 24 wherein the step of feeding paint to the paint dispenser further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents. 27. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 26 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes at least three solvents, none of which comprise more than 50% of the total solvents. 28. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 26, wherein the following additional steps are performed: (k) recirculating the paint booth atmosphere; and (l) adding fresh air to the paint booth atmosphere being recirculated in an amount equal to the amount of paint booth atmosphere that was fed to the thermal oxidizer. 29. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 28 including the additional step of: (m) scrubbing the paint booth atmosphere to remove paint particles that are suspended therein. 30. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 29 including the additional steps of: (n) filtering the added fresh air to remove impurities; and (o) air conditioning the added fresh air to control its temperature and humidity. 31. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 28 including the additional steps of: (m) filtering the added fresh air to remove impurities; and (n) air-conditioning the added fresh air to control its temperature and humidity. 32. A method of applying paint to an article in a contained atmosphere paint booth as set forth in claim 24 wherein the following steps are followed in feeding a controlled amount of paint booth atmosphere to the thermal oxidizer: (k) feeding the paint booth atmosphere to a heat exchange chamber in the thermal oxidizer where its temperature in increased; (l) feeding the increased temperature paint booth atmosphere to a combustion chamber in the thermal oxidizer where the step of oxidizing the paint booth atmosphere takes place; and (m) utilizing the heat generated from the oxidization of the paint booth atmosphere in the combustion chamber to increase the temperature in the heat exchange chamber. 33. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 32 wherein the step of feeding paint to the paint dispenser further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents. 34. A method of applying paint to an article as set forth in claim 33 wherein the step of selecting a paint that includes multiple solvents further includes the step of selecting a paint that includes at least three solvents, none of which comprise more than 50% of the total solvents. 