The manufacturing system includes a wire segment preparation subsystem and a termination subsystem, each of which operates independently under the direction of local computer controllers. The preparation sybsystem measures and marks wire and cuts it into segments. The termination subsystem processes the ends of the wire segments. A transport subsystem selectively transports batches of wire segments from the preparation subsystem to the termination stations of the termination subsystem. A system controller oversees the operation of the system and transmits batches of computer process control data to the subsystems. The local controllers use the downloaded batches of data to direct the processing of batches of wire segments. The system may be entirely automated, or may include a mix of automated and manual work stations. The segments are preferably loaded in batches in carriers for transport between subsystems and work stations. The carriers may be transported by hand, along roller tables, and/or on conveyors. The subsystem work stations have input and output queues. The wire segments are hung on dividers in the carrier or are individually coiled onto reelettes which are in turn loaded in the carrier.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for manufacturing electrical wire harnesses, comprising: an information storage subsystem for storing computer process control data; a wire segment preparation subsystem for preparing batches of wire segments of predetermined lengths; a termination subsystem including a plurality of autonomous wire segment termination stations; a communication subsystem to transfer said control data in batches to said segment preparation subsystem and said termination stations; and a wire segment transport subsystem for selectively transporting batches of wire segments from said segment preparation subsystem to said termination stations. 2. The system of claim 1, in which said termination stations include at least one manual station and at least one automated station. 3. The system of claim 1, in which said information storage subsystem accepts engineering harness data and converts it to computer process control data. 4. The system of claim 1, in which said segment preparation subsystem includes devices to measure and cut wire from a continuous source into segments of predetermined lengths. 5. The system of claim 4, in which said segment preparation subsystem further includes apparatus for marking said segments. 6. The system of claim 5, in which said segment transport subsystem includes a plurality of carriers, each said carrier being dimensioned to receive a batch of wire segments. 7. The system of claim 4, in which said segment transport subsystem includes a plurality of carriers, each said carrier being dimensioned to receive a batch of wire segments. 8. The system of claim 7, in which each said carrier is dimensioned to receive a plurality of reels, each said reel being adapted to receive a single wire segment wound thereon. 9. The system of claim 7, in which said transport subsystem further includes an endless-belt type conveyor for transporting said carriers from said segment preparation subsystem to said termination stations. 10. The system of claim 1, in which said transport subsystem includes a plurality of carriers, each dimensioned to receive a batch of wire segments. 11. The system of claim 10, in which said transport subsystem further includes an endless-belt type conveyor for transporting said carriers from said preparation subsystem to said termination stations. 12. The system of claim 10, in which said termination stations include at least one automated termination station. 13. The system of claim 12, in which said automated termination station includes queuing substations for incoming and outgoing carriers. 14. The system of claim 13, in which said transport subsystem further includes an endless-belt type conveyor for transporting said carriers from said preparation subsystem to said termination stations; and said queuing substations are accessible to but independent of said conveyor. 15. The system of claim 1, in which said communication subsystem includes a shop supervisor that receives status reports from said termination stations and makes data requests to said information storage subsystem. 16. A method of manufacturing electrical wire harnesses, comprising: providing a wire segment preparation subsystem and a plurality of termination stations; communicating computer process control data in batches to said preparation subsystem and said termination stations; in said preparation subsystem, using said control data to independently control preparation of a batch of wire segments; selectively transporting said batch of wire segments to one of said termination stations; and at said one station, using a batch of said control data to independently control processing of end portions of said wire segments. 17. The method of claim 16, in which the step of preparing a batch of wire segments includes measuring wire from a continuous source and cutting it into predetermined lengths. 18. The method of claim 17, in which the step of preparing a batch of wire segments further includes marking the segments. 19. The method of claim 18, comprising loading the batch of segments prepared in said segment preparation subsystem into a carrier for transport to said termination stations. 20. The method claim 17, comprising loading the batch of segments prepared in said segment preparation subsystem into a carrier for transport to said termination stations. 21. The method of claim 20, in which the step of transporting said batch of wire segments to said termination stations comprises placing said carrier on an endless-belt type conveyor. 22. The method of claim 16, comprising loading the batch of segments prepared in said segment preparation subsystem into a carrier for transport to said termination stations. 23. The method of claim 22, in which the step of transporting said batch of wire segments to said termination stations comprises placing said carrier on an endless-belt type conveyor. 24. The method of claim 22, comprising queuing carriers in at least one of said termination stations. 25. The method of claim 16, further comprising transporting batches of wire segments from said termination stations to a lay-up subsystem. 26. The method of claim 25, comprising communicating control data in batches to said lay-up subsystem. 27. The method of claim 16, comprising generating said computer process control data from engineering harness data. 28. The method of claim 16, comprising transporting said batch of segments to a plurality of said termination stations; determining an initial order in which said batch of segments is to be transported to said termination stations; and monitoring said termination stations to determine if said initial order needs to be revised to maintain efficiency. 29. The method of claim 28, in which said preparation subsystem has a plurality of work stations; and which comprises making an initial determination as to at how many of said work stations, and in what sequence of said work stations, said batch of segments is to be prepared, and monitoring said preparation subsystem to determine if said initial determination needs to be revised to maintain efficiency. 30. The method of claim 16, in which said preparation subsystem has a plurality of work stations; and which comprises making an initial determination as to at how many of said work stations, and in what sequence of said work stations, said batch of segments is to be prepared, and monitoring said preparation subsystem to determine if said initial determination needs to be revised to maintain efficiency. 