A sealed focusing assembly for an industrial vision system according to the present invention is comprised of a main housing in threaded contact with an adjustment ring, and in rotatable contact with a lens sleeve. An O-ring functions to frictionally prevent the lens sleeve from rotating as the assembly is focused by rotation of the adjustment ring and the lens sleeve is axially advanced. The O-ring also functions to form a gaseous-tight seal within the focusing assembly. The use of an additional O-ring provides the assembly with superior seal integrity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an industrial vision system, a sealed focusing assembly comprising, an elongated cylindrical housing having an externally threaded first portion, a second portion, and an inner cylindrical surface, an elongated cylindrical lens sleeve coaxial with the housing and slidably disposed within the housing, the lens sleeve having an open front end and an open rear end, and an outer surface, an optical detector attached to the lens sleeve proximate the open front end of the sleeve and in luminous contact with the optical detector, motive means in threaded connection with the housing for advancing the lens sleeve in an axial direction relative to the optical detector, a resilient O-ring in gaseous-tight contact about the fixed focus lens assembly, and stabilizing means in frictional connection between the lens sleeve and the housing whereby, the stabilizing means prevents the lens sleeve from rotating as the lens sleeve is axially advanced. 2. The sealed focusing assembly of claim 1 wherein the stabilizing means comprises a resilient O-ring in tight frictional contact with an annular groove in the outer surface of the lens sleeve proximate the rear end of the sleeve, and in tight frictional contact with the inner cylindrical surface of the housing, wherein the O-ring forms a gaseous-tight seal between the housing and lens sleeve. 3. The sealed focusing assembly of claim 2 wherein the motive means comprises an elongated cylindrical adjustment ring having an open front end and open rear end, said adjustment ring being coaxial with the housing, being in threaded internal contact with the first portion of the housing and being rotatably connected to the lens sleeve, and an elongated cylindrical locking ring coaxial with the housing, being in threaded internal contact with the first portion of the housing and capable of locking the adjustment ring to maintain the focus of the sealed focusing assembly. 4. The sealed focusing assembly of claim 3 wherein the motive means further comprises an internal annular groove in the adjustment ring proximate the open front end of the ring, an external annular flange on the lens sleeve defining two annular shoulders proximate the open front end of the sleeve and being adapted to rotatably fit within the annular groove of the adjustment ring, and an internal annular flange in the housing proximate the second portion of the housing being in axial contact with the rear end of the lens sleeve, wherein as the adjustment ring is rotated and advances axially relative to the optical detector, the annular groove in the adjustment ring, and the annular flange on the lens sleeve cooperate to advance the lens sleeve in the same axial direction. 5. A focusing assembly for a vision system, comprising: a cylindrical housing with an inner cylindrical surface, said cylindrical housing having an externally threaded first portion and a second portion; a cylindrical lens sleeve which is coaxial with an slidably disposed within said cylindrical housing, said lens sleeve having an outer surface, an open front end and an open rear end, said open rear end being shaped to receive an optical detector in attachment at a detector position proximate thereto; a lens assembly attached to said lens sleeve proximate said open front end; means for advancing said lens sleeve axially relative to said detector position; and means for inhibiting said lens sleeve from rotating relative to said cylindrical housing when said lens sleeve is advanced axially. 6. The assembly of claim 5, wherein: said inhibiting means comprises an O-ring disposed between an outer surface of said cylindrical lens sleeve and said inner cylindrical surface of said cylindrical housing. 7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein: said O-ring is disposed in a groove formed in said outer surface of said cylindrical lens sleeve. 8. The assembly of claim 5, wherein: said advancing means comprises a cylindrical adjustment ring having an inner threaded surface disposed in mesh association with said externally threaded first portion. 9. The assembly of claim 8, wherein: said cylindrical adjustment ring comprises an inner groove formed in an inner cylindrical surface thereof, said inner groove being shaped to receive an external annular flange of said cylindrical lens sleeve in sliding association therein. 10. The assembly of claim 5, further comprising: means for locking said advancing means at a fixed position relative to said first portion. 11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein: said locking means comprises a locking ring disposed in coaxial association with said advancing means and in mesh relation with said threaded first portion. 12. The assembly of claim 5, wherein: said vision system is part of an industrial sensing system. 