A construction toy configured as a humanoid figurine formed from: a torso having a front wall and a rear wall, a head area, downwardly extending legs and outwardly extending arms. The torso and its front and rear walls provide first and second attachment surfaces which are complementally formed mirror images, one of the other so as to provide connecting elements when the figurines are to be stacked and interconnected. Because the nature of the attachment surfaces is neutral with respect to its center, the connecting elements can also allow attachment to an adjacent stack of figurines in a rotational pattern. The connecting elements also allows quadrans of the torso to be stacked forming imbrications. The head has a profile provided with a first fastening elements for interconnection with either the second attachment surface or other fastening elements. Each leg is formed from two pieces of planar stock spaced one from the other defining a groove. The groove defines a second fastening elements. Each leg is spaced one from the other with a gap defining a third fastening elements. Each arm is provided with a peripheral extemity defining a fourth fastening elements. Each arm is provided on a front surface thereof with a pair of spaced locking ribs defining a fifth fastening elements. Each back surface of the arm is provided with a locking tab providing a sixth fastening elements.
Claims I claim: 1. A figurine construction toy comprising, in combination: a front wall defining a first attachment surface, a rear wall having a second attachment surface, said first and second attachment surfaces defining complemental connecting means, a top simulative head area extending up from edges between said front and rear walls, said head area having a thickness defining a first fastening means, two legs extending down from edges between said front and rear walls having means defining a second and third fastening means, and one pair of arms extending from edges between said front and rear walls having means defining fourth, fifth and sixth fastening means. 2. The toy of claim 1 wherein said first fastening means includes a planar portion extending upwardly, defining said head area and said planar portion is circumscribed by a peripheral ridge whose thickness defines said first fastening means, and facial indicia is carried on said portion including eyes and a mouth. 3. The toy of claim 1 wherein said second fastening means is located on each one of said legs and includes a groove on each one of said legs extending about a periphery of each one of said legs. 4. The toy of claim 1 wherein a pair of planar stock elements defining each one of said legs, and a groove extends between said planar stock elements. 5. The toy of claim 1 wherein one of said legs is spaced from the other said legs defining a gap which is said third fastening means. 6. The toy of claim 1 wherein said arms are each formed from planar stock material and said planar stock material is provided with a peripheral lip which defines said fourth fastening means. 7. The toy of claim 1 wherein each one of said arms includes a pair of spaced locking ribs projecting outwardly from a one side of each one of said arms, said spaced locking ribs including a gap therebetween defining said fifth fastening means. 8. The toy of claim 1 wherein each one of said arms includes a locking tab jutting outwardly therefrom, providing said sixth fastening means. 9. A human figurine type construction toy, comprising, in combination: a wafer simulative of a human torso and having a front wall, a rear wall and a periphery, complemental attachment means on said front and rear walls, said periphery including plural extensions emanating therefrom which are simulative of human appendages and provided with plural fastening means for attachment to other construction toys. 10. The toy of claim 9 wherein two of said extensions simulate two arms formed from a planar stock material extending from said wafer and each one of said two extensions defining a major contour of one of each of said arms, and said planar stock material is provided with a peripheral lip which defines one of said fastening means. 11. The toy of claim 9 wherein one of said extensions simulates a head formed from planar stock material extending from said wafer, and said planar stock material is circumscribed by a peripheral ridge whose thickness defines one of said fastening means, and facial indicia are carried on said head including eyes and a mouth. 12. The toy of claim 9 wherein two of said extensions simulates two legs extending from said wafer and each one of said legs is provided with a groove circumscribing a periphery of each one of said legs defining one of said fastening means. 13. The toy of claim 9 wherein two said extensions simulate legs extending from said wafer and a gap extends between said two legs defining one of said fastening means. 14. The toy of claim 9 wherein two of said extensions simulate two arms having a pair of spaced, parallel locking ribs projecting outwardly from a one side of each one of said arms, said spaced locking ribs including a gap therebetween defining one of said fastening means. 15. The toy of claim 9 wherein two of said extensions simulate arms including a locking tab jutting outwardly from each of one said arms providing one of said fastening means. 16. An integrally formed human figurine construction toy comprising, in combination: a torso having attachment means thereon to attach to another toy, arms extending from said torso, legs extending from said torso, a head extending from said torso, and plural fastening means on said figurine's each one of said arms, each one of said legs and head to attach to another construction toy, wherein said head comprises planar stock material extending from said torso, and said planar stock material is circumscribed by a peripheral ridge whose thickness defines one said fastening means, and facial indicia are carried on said head area including eyes and a mouth. 17. The toy of claim 16 wherein each one of said arms are formed from a planar stock material defining a major contour of each one of said arms, and said planar stock material is provided with a peripheral lip which defines one said fastening means. 18. The toy of claim 16 wherein each one of said legs extends from said torso and each one of said legs is provided with a groove circumscribing a periphery of each one of said legs defining one said fastening means. 19. The toy of claim 16 wherein each one of two said legs extends from said torso and a gap extends between said two legs defining one said fastening means. 20. The toy of claim 16 wherein each one of said arms includes a pair of spaced, parallel locking ribs projecting outwardly from a one side of each one of said arms, said spaced locking ribs including a gap therebetween defining one said fastening means. 21. The toy of claim 16 wherein each one of said arms includes a locking tab jutting outwardly from each one of said arms, providing one said fastening means. 