A system and method for positioning a tool relative to a patient's bone to facilitate the performance of a surgical bone alteration task. The system comprises a bone immobilization device for supporting the bone in a fixed position with respect to a reference structure, and a robot that includes a base fixed in position with respect to the reference structure. The robot also includes a mounting member, and a manipulator connected between the base and the mounting member and permitting relative movement therebetween. The tool to be positioned by the system is mounted to the mounting member. The mounting member is caused to move relative to the reference structure in response to movement commands, so that the tool can be moved to a desired task position to facilitate performance of the task. The system preferably also includes a template attachable to the mounting member, a feature of the template representing a portion of a task. Preferably, the template is secured to the mounting member, and the template is then manually manipulated such that the template feature is properly oriented with respect to the patient's bone. The template position is then recorded as a reference position that may thereafter be combined with a geometric database defining the task to determine the position of the tool. Particular embodiments for a bone immobilizer, a template and a saw guide are also described, together with a stabilizing device for the robot and a safety device for the robot base.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method for positioning a tool guide relative to a patient's bone to facilitate the performance of a surgical bone alteration task wherein a tool's movement is constrained by the tool guide, the method comprising: immobilizing the obne by supporting the bone in a fixed posiiton with repsect to a reference structure; attaching a tool guide to a robot, the robot comprising a base fixed with respect to the reference structure, a mounting member to which the tool guide is attached, and a manipulator connected between the base and the mounting member and permitting relative movement therebetween, and attachment means for securing the tool guide or other device to the mounting member; and causing the mounting member to move relative to the reference structure, such that the tool guide is moved to a desired task position to facilitate the performance of the task. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of attaching a template to the mounting member prior to securing the tool guide to the mounting member, positioning the template such that a feature of the template is in a desired position relative to the bone, recording the template position as a reference position in a world coordinate system that is fixed with respect to the reference structure, and utilizing the reference position to determine the task position thereafter removing the template from the mounting member. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of determining the position in the world coordinate system by integrating a geometric database that includes data representing the geometric relationship relevant to performance of the task with the reference position, and generating movement commands therefrom for directing the mounting member to a position in which the tool guide is positioned in the task position. 