An apparatus and method for computer controlled stereotactic surgery is disclosed. This method utilizes an imaging device, a robotic arm and a means for controlling the robotic arm. Stereotactic surgery on integral body parts, e.g. the brain, spine, knee or other joint, breast, etc. may be accomplished with relatively greater precision and smaller incisions. The imaging device, which may be a computerized tomography (CT) axial imaging system, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) device, or any suitable image-providing means, provides information regarding the structure of the bodily location to be operated on. The robotic arm is utilized to precisely orient the surgical tools or other implements used in conducting the surgery or related procedure. The control means, such as a computer, utilizes information received from the imaging device, alone or together with other information, to control the robotic arm.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for conducting stereotactic surgery comprising: (1) an imaging device for generating information regarding the structure of the bodily location to be operated on; (2) a robotic arm having rotatable joints, and (3) means for controlling the robotic arm based at least in part upon information received from the imaging device. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the imaging device is a computerized tomography axial imaging system. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the imaging device is a magnetic resonance imaging device. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the imaging device is an ultrasound device. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the imaging device is a mammograph machine. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein a combination of two imaging devices is employed. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein said imaging devices are a computerized axial tomography imaging system and a magnetic resonance imaging device. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the robotic arm has an effector end to which there is affixed a probe holder. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 8 wherein the probe holder holds a surgical implement. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 9 wherein the surgical implement is a surgical probe. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 9 wherein the surgical implement is a catheter. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein the means for controlling the robotic arm is a computer. 13. A method for conducting stereotactic surgery comprising: (1) generating information regarding the structure of the bodily location to be operated on using an imaging device; (2) supplying the information generated by the imaging device to a means for controlling a robotic arm, (3) manipulating the robotic arm by the controlling means in a manner based at least in part upon the information supplied to the controlling means by the imaging device. 14. A method as recited in claim 13 wherein the means for controlling the robotic arm has been calibrated by: (a) initially driving the robotic arm in a multiplicity of predetermined directions to randomly selected points in space within the robotic arm's field of reach; (b) having the robotic arm fixedly engage, at each such point in space, a means set in place at said point to provide a precise, measured, immovable reference point at the location at which the robotic arm engages said means; (c) reading the robotic arm's rotatable joints at each such point in space to give the difference between where the robotic arm was directed to go and where it actually went, and (d) feeding these differences into a Jacobian transform matrix to supplement any positioning inaccuracies in the controlling means' initial positioning of the robotic arm. 