This invention relates to a self aligning, vacuum end effector which is capable of picking up objects which have a pick up surface which is not planar with the pick up surface of the end effector. The end effector is comprised of two parts: a nozzle base which fixedly attaches to an automatic assembly device, such as robotic arm; and a nozzle tip, which is the part of the end effector which actually comes in contact with the object to be picked up. The nozzle base and nozzle tip are secured together by a retention spring. The nozzle tip has a generally, semi-spherically shaped ball portion which is partly inserted into a bore within the nozzle base and rests against a quad ring which is secured within the bore. Consequently, when the nozzle tip makes contact with an object which is to be picked up and moved, the semi-spherical ball portion of the nozzle tip slides against the quad ring and the nozzle tip pivotally moves and aligns itself with the plane of the surface of the object to be picked up. Hollowed through the center of both parts of the end effector is a passageway through which a vacuum source supplied by the robotic arm can be effected at the contact surface of the nozzle tip, so that the object can be picked up.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vacuum end effector for picking up and moving a work piece while maintaining alignment of said work piece comprising: a nozzle base having a base passageway extending therethrough into a cavity in said nozzle base; a nozzle tip having first and second portions, said first portion being generally semi-spherically shaped and having a given diameter, and said second portion having a work piece contact surface, said nozzle tip having a tip passageway extending through said first portion and through said contact surface of said second portion; engagement means disposed within said cavity, said engagement means having a circular opening of a diameter less than said diameter of said semi-spherical portion for sealably and slidably engaging said semi-spherical portion of said nozzle tip when said semi-spherical portion is placed in slidable, abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means; and retention means at least partially within said cavity for retaining said semi-spherical portion in abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means, said cavity and said tip passageway being configured such that with said semi-spherical portion of said nozzle tip in abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means said base and tip passageways are in fluid flow communication with one another so that a vacuum applied at one end of said base passageway will be communicated to said opening in said contact surface for enabling the pick up of a work piece. 2. The end effector as in claim 1, wherein said engagement means comprises a cavity seal positioned within said cavity, said cavity seal being formed of a rubber like material being sufficiently compliant to effect an air tight seal and being sufficiently hard such that it does not restrict the pivoting movement of said nozzle tip relative to said nozzle base when said nozzle tip makes contact with said work piece. 3. The end effector as in claim 1, wherein said retention means comprises a retention spring coupled between said nozzle base and said nozzle tip. 4. The end effector as in claim 1, wherein said nozzle base includes connection means on said nozzle base for coupling said base passageway to a vacuum source. 5. The end effector as in claim 1, wherein said contact surface includes tip recess means and a tip seal received within said tip recess means, said tip seal being formed of a rubber-like material being sufficiently compliant to effect an air tight seal when said contact surface contacts a work piece. 6. The end effector as in claim 5, wherein said tip seal is a quad ring. 7. The end effector as in claim 3, wherein said cavity, said base passageway, and said tip passageway are each generally cylindrically shaped. 8. The end effector as in claim 7 wherein said retention spring extends within said base passageway, said cavity, and said tip passageway. 9. A vacuum end effector for picking up and moving a work piece while maintaining the alignment of said work piece, said end effector comprising: a nozzle base having a first and a second end with a cylindrically configured cavity formed therein, said cavity having an open end; said nozzle base including bore means in fluid flow communication with said cavity; a nozzle tip having a first portion and a second portion, said first portion including a generally semi-spherically configured surface, said nozzle tip having bore means extending through said first and second portions to a contact end surface of said second portion; means within said cavity for sealably and slidably engaging the semi-spherically configured surface of said first portion of said nozzle tip; means within said bore means of said nozzle tip and within one of said cavity and said bore means of said nozzle base for retaining said first portion of said nozzle tip in abutting relation with said sealing means for maintaining a vacuum and for enabling the pivoting of said nozzle tip relative to said nozzle base on contact of said contact surface with a work piece so that said contact surface aligns with a surface of said work piece; and means on said nozzle base for connection of said bore means of said nozzle base to a vacuum source, said bore means of said nozzle tip being dimensioned and positioned for providing a vacuum at said contact surface for said end effector to pick up said work piece on movement of said end effector. 10. A vacuum end effector as in claim 9, wherein said means within said cavity comprises a bore seal formed of a material which is sufficiently hard so as not to restrict the pivoting movement of said semi-spherical surface, and sufficiently soft so as to enable a vacuum seal to be created between said nozzle base and said first portion of said nozzle tip. 11. A vacuum end effector as in claim 10, wherein said retention means comprises a retention spring. 12. A vacuum end effector as in claim 11, wherein said connection means comprises a plurality of mounting screws, said mounting screws being capable of attaching said end effector to said vacuum source. 13. A vacuum end effector for picking up and moving a work piece while maintaining the alignment of said work piece comprising: a nozzle base having a cylindrically shaped base passageway extending therethrough, said nozzle base having an enlarged cylindrically shaped base portion with a given diameter, said base portion having a cylindrically shaped bore enlargement disposed within said base portion and said bore enlargement being in fluid flow communication with said base passageway, said base passageway, said base portion, and said bore enlargement all having a common longitudinal center line; a nozzle tip having first and second portions, said first portion being generally semi-spherically shaped with a given diameter, and said second portion being cylindrically shaped with a given diameter, said diameter of said second portion being the same as said diameter of said base portion, said second portion having a work piece contact surface, said nozzle tip having a cylindrically shaped tip passageway extending through said first portion and through said contact surface of said second portion; engagement means within said bore enlargement having a circular opening of a diameter less than said diameter of said semi-spherical portion for sealably and slidably engaging said semi-spherical portion with said semi-spherical portion placed in slidable, abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means; and retention means at least partially within said bore enlargement for retaining said semi-spherical portion in slidable abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means, said bore enlargement and said tip passageway being configured such that with said semi-spherical portion in abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means said base and tip passageways are in fluid flow communication with one another so that a vacuum applied at one end of said base passageway will be communicated to said opening in said contact surface for enabling the pick up of a work piece. 14. The end effector as in claim 13, wherein said bore enlargement includes recess means and wherein said engagement means comprises a bore seal received within said recess means, said bore seal being formed of a rubber-like material being sufficiently compliant to effect an air tight seal and being sufficiently hard such that it does not restrict the pivoting movement of said nozzle tip relative to said nozzle base when said nozzle tip makes contact with said work piece. 15. The end effector as in claim I4, wherein said pivoting movement of said nozzle tip relative to said nozzle body is limited by the engagement of said base portion with said second portion of said nozzle tip when said nozzle tip makes contact with said work piece. 16. The end effector as in claim 14, wherein said retention means comprises a retention spring coupled between said nozzle base and said nozzle tip. 17. The end effector as in claim 16, wherein one end of said spring is captively retained in said base passageway and the other end of said spring is captively retained in said tip passageway, and said spring is disposed through said base passageway and said tip passage. 18. The end effector as in claim 17, wherein said contact surface includes tip recess means and a tip seal received within said tip recess means, both said tip recess means and said tip seal being generally ring shaped and concentric with said opening in said contact surface, said tip seal being formed of a rubber-like material being sufficiently compliant to effect an air tight seal when said tip seal contacts a work piece. 19. The end effector as in claim 13, wherein at the junction of said base passageway and said bore enlargement said base passageway has a beveled edge contoured to the shape of said semi-spherical portion. 20. The end effector as in claim 19, wherein said beveled edge is positioned and configured such that with said semi-spherical portion of said nozzle tip inserted as far as possible within said bore enlargement, said semi-spherical portion is in abutting contact with said beveled edge such that said semi-spherical portion pivots against said beveled edge when the position of said nozzle tip relative to said nozzle base is biased by contact pressure from said work piece. 21. A vacuum end effector for picking up and moving a work piece while maintaining alignment of said work piece comprising: a nozzle base having a base passageway extending therethrough into a cavity in said nozzle base; a nozzle tip having first and second portions, said first portion being generally semi-spherically shaped and having a given diameter, and said second portion having a work piece contact surface, said nozzle tip having a tip passageway extending through said first portion and through said contact surface, said contact surface having a tip recess means and a tip seal received within said tip recess means, said tip seal being formed of a rubber-like material being sufficiently compliant to effect an air tight seal when said contact surface contacts a work piece; engagement means disposed within said cavity, said engagement means having a circular opening of a diameter less than said diameter of said semi-spherical portion for sealably and slidably engaging said semi-spherical portion of said nozzle tip when said semi-spherical portion is placed in slidable, abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means; and retention means at least partially within said cavity for retaining said semi-spherical portion in abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means, said cavity and said tip passageway being configured such that with said semi-spherical portion of said nozzle tip in abutting contact with said opening of said engagement means said base and tip passageways are in fluid flow communication with one another so that a vacuum applied at one end of said base passageway will be communicated to said opening in said contact surface for enabling the pick up of a work piece. 22. The end effector of claim 21, wherein said tip seal is a quad ring. 23. A vacuum end effector for picking up and moving a work piece while maintaining the alignment of said work piece, said end effector comprising: a nozzle base having a first and a second end with a cylindrically configured cavity formed therein, said cavity having an open end; said nozzle base including bore means in fluid flow communication with said cavity; a nozzle tip having a first portion and a second portion, said first portion including a generally semi-spherically configured surface, said nozzle tip having bore means extending through said first and second portions to a contact end surface of said second portion; a bore seal formed of a material which is sufficiently hard so as not to restrict the pivoting movement of said semi-spherical surface, and sufficiently soft so as to enable a vacuum seal to be created between said nozzle base and said first portion of said nozzle tip; a retention spring within said bore means of said nozzle tip and within one of said cavity and said bore means of said nozzle base for retaining said first portion of said nozzle tip in abutting relation with said sealing means for maintaining a vacuum and for enabling the pivoting of said nozzle tip relative to said nozzle base on contact of said contact surface with a work piece so that said contact surface aligns with a surface of said work piece; and a plurality of mounting screws disposed through said nozzle base for connection of said bore means of said nozzle base to a vacuum source, said bore means of said nozzle tip being dimensioned and positioned for providing a vacuum at said contact surface for hid end effector to pick up said work piece on movement of said end effector. 