Hand control devices are disclosed which provide for damping of vibrations and other unintended motion with three or more degrees of freedom. In one embodiment, a four degree of freedom damped hand control is illustrated, including a chamber filled with a viscous fluid, and a transmission which couples movement of a handle in the X, Y and Z directions and rotation in a .theta. direction about one of the axes to movements of one or more drag elements in the fluid. The hand control further includes a position-sensing and a rotation-sensing assembly for sensing the position of the handle relative to a reference frame and for generating electrical signals indicative of the position and angle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hand control device capable of damping motions during operation by a user, the device comprising: a chamber filled with a viscous fluid; a transmission assembly comprising a first inner shaft coupled to a second outer shaft and concentric with each other, said first shaft having a handle to be held by the user and said second shaft being at least partially disposed within said fluid of said chamber; drag means coupled to said second shaft of said transmission assembly and disposed within said fluid for damping motion of said transmission assembly; and position-sensing means disposed about the transmission assembly for sensing the position of said transmission assembly relative to a defined reference frame and for generating electrical signals indicative of said position, said position-sensing means being activated by said first shaft during operation to generate electrical signals when said shaft is displaced from said reference frame. 2. The hand control device of claim 1 wherein said first shaft further includes at least one thrust pin to couple said first shaft to said second shaft and said drag means, such that upon rotation or translation of said first shaft, a force is applied to said drag means. 3. The hand control device of claim 1 wherein said drag means rotates in said fluid upon rotational motion of the transmission assembly. 4. The hand control device of claim 1 wherein said drag means rotates in said fluid in response to translational motion of the transmission assembly. 5. The hand control device of claim 1 wherein said drag means includes a plurality of radial protrusions along the outer surface of said drag means. 6. The hand control device of claim 1 includes at least two drag elements coupled to said transmission assembly and being disposed within said fluid to damp motions of said first shaft. 7. The hand control device of claim 6 wherein said drag elements include a plurality of radial protrusions along the outer surface of said drag elements. 8. The hand control device of claim 6 wherein said drag elements rotate in said fluid upon rotational motion of the transmission assembly. 9. The hand control device of claim 6 wherein said drag elements rotate in said fluid in response to translational motion of the transmission assembly. 10. The hand control device of claim 6 wherein said first shaft further includes at least one thrust pin to couple said first shaft to said second shaft and said drag elements, such that, upon rotation or translation of said first shaft, movement is imparted to said drag elements. 11. The hand control device of claim 10 wherein said second shaft includes a longitudinal slot to accommodate translation of said thrust pin and each drag element includes a helical slot on the inner surface of said drag element to receive the protruding portion of said thrust pin. 12. The hand control device of claim 11 wherein the pitch of said helical slot in one damping element is opposite in direction to the pitch of the helical slot in the other damping element, so that axial translation of said first shaft produces opposite rotations of the drag elements. 13. The hand control device of claim 9 wherein said transmission assembly includes an opening to the ambient environment to avoid compression of air during translation of said first and second shafts with respect to each other. 14. The hand control device of claim 1 wherein said position-sensing means further includes means for sensing the position of said first shaft relative to a reference frame and for generating electrical signals indicative of said position. 15. The hand control device of claim 13 wherein position-sensing means further includes means for sensing the torsional, translational and tilting motion of said first shaft. 16. The hand control device of claim 14 wherein position-sensing means includes first and second orthogonally-positioned sensors coupled to said transmission assembly, such that lateral displacement of the first shaft alters electrical signal from one or both of said first and second sensors; a third sensor coupled to said transmission assembly, such that torsional motion of the first shaft alters electrical signal from said third sensor; and a fourth sensor coupled to said transmission assembly, such that translational motion along the axis of the transmission assembly alters electrical signal from said fourth sensor. 17. The hand control device of claim 6 wherein said drag elements and said fluid cooperate to achieve a damping constant of about 2 to about 20 lbs-sec/ft. 18. The hand control device of claim 6 wherein said drag elements and said fluid cooperate to achieve a damping constant of about 5 to about 15 lbs-sec/ft. 19. The hand control device of claim 6 wherein said viscous fluid comprises a silicone oil having viscosity ranging from about 200,000 to about 2,000,000 cstokes. 20. The hand control device of claim 15 wherein said position-sensing means is coupled to a signal processing means which controls a motor-driven machine, such that said electrical signals generated by position-sensing means are used to effect movement of said machine. 21. The hand control device of claim 20 wherein the motor-driven machine is a vehicle. 22. The hand control device of claim 20 wherein the motor-driven machine is a helicopter. 