The method of the present invention permit the accurate sensing of the height of a solder nozzle above a circuit board during operation of the solder nozzle. A non-contact limit switch, which provides an indication of the presence of a planar surface at a preselected proximity, is mounted in a fixed relationship with a solder nozzle which is manipulatable by means of a robotic arm. A reference surface is provided which includes a proximity sensor, such as a through beam fiber optic switch. The proximity sensor is mounted a predetermined distance above the reference surface and is utilized to detect the solder nozzle as it is moved toward the reference surface. By noting the position coordinates of the robotic arm at which the proximity sensor indicates the presence of the solder nozzle at the predetermined distance above the reference surface, and the position of the robotic arm at which the non-contact limit switch closes in response to the proximity of the reference surface, it is possible to accurately calculate a calibration offset value which may be utilized in conjunction with the output of the non-contact limit switch to precisely position the solder nozzle at a desired distance above a circuit board. In one preferred embodiment of the present invention, the solder nozzle is repeatedly moved toward the reference surface during calibration to ensure that the calibration offset value obtained is statistically significant.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for controlling the height of a solder nozzle above a planar member in a solder deposition system having a solder nozzle mounted to a manipulatable robotic arm and adapted to dispense heated solder onto the surface of said planar member, said method comprising the steps of: mounting a non-contact limit switch in a fixed relationship with respect to said solder nozzle, said non-contact limit switch generating a first signal in response to the presence of a planar member within a preselected proximity thereof; providing a reference surface having a proximity sensor a predetermined distance above said reference surface adapted to generate a second signal in response to the presence of said solder nozzle at said predetermined distance above said reference surface; manipulating said solder nozzle toward said reference surface; and utilizing said first signal, said second signal and said predetermined distance to calculate a calibration offset value to be utilized to correct the apparent height of said solder nozzle above said planar member wherein variations in said fixed relationship between said non-contact limit switch and said solder nozzle may be accommodated. 2. The method for controlling the height of a solder nozzle above a planar member in a solder deposition system according to claim 1, further including the step of raising said solder nozzle to actual operating temperature prior to calculating said calibration offset value. 3. The method for controlling the height of a tool above a planar member according to claim 2, further including the step of repeatedly manipulating said tool toward said reference surface and utilizing average values of said first signal and said second signal with said predetermined distance to calculate said calibration offset value. 4. The method for controlling the height of a tool above a planar member according to claim 3, further including the step of calculating a standard deviation for said average value of said first signal and said second signal to determine whether said average values are statistically significant prior to calculating said calibration offset value. 5. The method for controlling the height of a solder nozzle above a planar member in a solder deposition system according to claim 1, wherein said step of manipulating said solder nozzle toward said reference surface comprises the step of manipulating said solder nozzle toward said reference surface at a speed substantially equal to actual solder deposition speed. 6. The method for controlling the height of a solder nozzle above a planar member according to claim 1, further including the steps of repeatedly manipulating said solder nozzle toward said reference surface and utilizing average values of said first signal and said second signal with said predetermined distance to calculate said calibration offset value. 7. The method for controlling the height of a solder nozzle above a planar member in a solder deposition system according to claim 6, further including the step of calculating a standard deviation for said average value of said first signal and said second signal to determine whether said average values are statistically significant prior to calculating said calibration offset value. 8. A method for controlling the height of a tool above a planar member in a system having a tool mounted to a manipulatable robotic arm and adapted to be urged toward said planar member, said method comprising the steps of: mounting a non-contact limit switch in a fixed relationship with respect to said tool, said non-contact limit switch generating a first signal in response to the presence of a planar member within a preselected proximity thereof; providing a reference surface having a proximity sensor fixedly mounted a predetermined distance above said reference surface adapted to generate a second signal in response to the presence of said tool at said predetermined distance above said reference surface; manipulating said tool toward said reference surface; and utilizing said first signal, said second signal and said predetermined distance to calculate a calibration offset value to be utilized to correct the apparent height of said tool above said planar member. 9. The method for controlling the height of a tool above a planar member according to claim 8, wherein said step of manipulating said tool toward said reference surface comprises the step of manipulating said tool toward said reference surface at a speed substantially equal to actual tool operation speed. 