A method and system for dispensing a fluid to provide a predetermined weight percent concentration of a sample material to the fluid. An estimated density value for the fluid is used to determine the volume of fluid to dispense in an initial injection of fluid which is less than the total volume of fluid required to achieve the predetermined weight percent concentration. A working fluid density is then determined from the volume of fluid dispensed and a measurement of the weight of the fluid dispensed. The working density is then used to determine the volume of fluid to dispense in a subsequent injection. Preferably, at least three fluid injections are performed, and the working density is determined after each fluid injection.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of dispensing a fluid to provide a predetermined weight percent concentration of said fluid relative to a sample material, comprising the steps of: weighing a vessel; introducing a quantity of said sample material into said vessel and reweighing said vessel with said sample material contained therein; determining a target weight of said fluid in response to the weight of said sample material, and determining a target volume of said fluid to add to said vessel from the combination of said target weight and an initial density value of said fluid; dispensing a predetermined portion of said target volume of said fluid to said vessel which is less than said target volume, and reweighing said vessel with said sample material and fluid contained therein; determining a working density of said fluid in response to said second reweighing step, and determining a volume of fluid to be added to said vessel from said working density in order to substantially achieve said target weight of said fluid; and dispensing at least one additional volume of said fluid to said vessel to substantially achieve said target weight of said fluid. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least two additional volumes of said fluid are dispensed to said vessel after said predetermined portion of said target volume of said fluid has been dispensed in order to substantially achieve said target weight of said fluid. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the weight of said fluid dispensed to said vessel is measured after each of said fluid dispensing steps. 4. The method according to claim 3, including the step of redetermining the working density of said fluid prior to the step of dispensing the last additional volume of said fluid to said vessel. 5. The method according to claim 4, further including the step of determining a final working density of said fluid in response to the step of dispensing the last additional volume of said fluid to said vessel, and storing said final working density value for use as the initial density value in a subsequent dispensing procedure. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein a balance is used to perform said weighing steps, and said balance is tared after each weighing step to zero said balance. 7. The method according to claim 6, including the step of determining whether said balance is protected from air drafts prior to said step of weighing said vessel. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein said fluid is a solvent for said sample material. 9. The method according to claim 1, including the step of determining whether the weight of said sample material introduced into said vessel is within a predetermined acceptable weight range. 10. The method according to claim 2, wherein said predetermined portion of said target volume of said fluid represents at least 30 percent of said target volume, and said second dispensing step adds generally between 80 and 95 percent of the remaining fluid volume necessary to substantially achieve said target weight of fluid. 11. A system for dispensing a fluid to provide a predetermined weight percent concentration of a sample material said fluid, comprising balance means for measuring the weight of a quantity of said sample material introduced into a vessel and the weight of selected fluid volumes subsequently added to said vessel, and for producing a signal indicative of the weight being measured; dispensing means for delivering selected volumes of said fluid to said vessel; input means for identifying a density characteristic of said fluid, and for identifying said predetermined weight percent concentration of said sample material in said fluid; controller means, operatively connected to said balance means, said input means and said dispensing means, for causing said dispensing means to add selected volumes of said fluid to said container to substantially achieve said predetermined weight percent concentration in a programmed sequence of fluid injections of variable volume in which the density of said fluid is determined after at least one of said fluid injections. 12. The system according to claim 11, wherein said controller means includes means for determining the density of said fluid after each of said fluid injections. 13. The system according to claim 12, wherein said programmed sequence provides for at least three fluid injections. 14. The system according to claim 11, wherein said programmed sequence includes a determination of whether the weight of said sample material introduced into said vessel is within a predetermined weight range before any fluid injections are performed. 15. The system according to claim 11, wherein said system includes means for producing a record indicative of weight from the signals received from said balance means. 16. The system according to claim 11, wherein said controller means includes means for storing the signals received from said balance means and said input means. 17. A method of dispensing a fluid to provide a predetermined weight percent concentration of said fluid relative to a sample material, comprising the steps of: weighing a vessel; introducing a quantity of said sample material into said vessel and reweighing said vessel with said sample material contained therein; determining a target weight of said fluid in response t the weight of said sample material, and determining na initial volume of said fluid to add to said vessel from a predetermined portion of said target weight of said fluid and an initial density value of said fluid, said predetermined portion of said target weight of said fluid being less than said target weight; dispensing said initial volume of said fluid to said vessel, and reweighing said vessel with said sample material and fluid contained therein; determining a working density of said fluid in response to said second reweighing step, and determining at least one additional volume of fluid to add to said vessel from said working density in order to substantially achieve said target weight of said fluid; and dispensing said additional volume of said fluid to said vessel. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein at least two additional volumes of said fluid are dispensed to said vessel after said initial volume of said fluid is dispensed to said vessel in order to substantially achieve said target weight of said fluid. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein said predetermined portion of said target weight of said fluid represents at least 30 percent of said target weight, and said second dispensing step adds generally between 80 and 95 percent of the remaining fluid weight necessary to substantially achieve said target weight of fluid. 20. A method of preparing an admixture of materials of predetermined concentration; the method comprising: (a) weighing a first material of the admixture; (b) calculating the target weight of a second material of the admixture which when admixed with the first material would achieve the desired predetermined concentration; (c) converting a portion of the calculated target weight to a corresponding volume based on an initial density of the second material, and dispensing the corresponding volume of the second material; (d) determining the weight of the dispensed second material; (e) calculating the density of the second material based on the volume of the second material determined in step (c) and the weight of the second material determined in step (d); (f) calculating the residual weight of the second material necessary to reach the target weight; (g) converting at least a portion or all of the residual weight to a corresponding residual volume using the calculated density of step (d) and dispensing the residual volume of the second material; (h) admixing the materials to prepare said admixture of materials of predetermined concentrations. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein one of the materials is a fluid. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the second material is a liquid. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein steps (e)-(g) are repeated at least once to produce at least a second residual, second calculated density, and second corresponding residual volume, and dispensing the at least second corresponding residual volume of the second material to prepare the admixture. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the number of repetitions of steps (e)-(g) is predetermined. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein one of the materials is a fluid. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein the second material is a liquid. 27. The method according to claim 23, wherein the portion of said target weight of step (c) represents at least 30 percent of said target weight, said second dispensing step (g) adds generally between 80 and 95 percent of the remaining weight necessary to substantially achieve said target weight of fluid, and at least one repetition of steps (e)-(g) is practiced to achieve said target weight. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the number of repetitions of steps (e)-(g) is predetermined. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein one of the materials is a fluid. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the second material is a liquid. 