A silicon wafer storage box must be secured by a functional and convenient latch during the fabrication and transportation of silicon wafers. The present invention encompasses such a functional, convenient latch adaptable for either manual or automated manipulation. The invention includes a rigid upper tab having a peg adapted for interaction with a robot arm of an automated process. The invention also includes a resiliently flexible bottom bight having a horizontally extending rigid lower tab, adapted for manual manipulation. The invention permits convenient, efficient manipulation of the latch by either a person or by an automated process.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A manually and robot operated latch for a two part silicon wafer storage box having a latch mounting portion on one part and a keeper portion on the other part for use with the latch, comprising: a horizontally extending rigid upper tab portion, comprising a first end portion having a catch portion adapted for releasable attachment to the keeper portion, said horizontally extending rigid upper tab portion further comprising a second end portion having an elongate connector peg, a resiliently flexible curved bight portion having a horizontally extending rigid lower tab portion, said curved bight portion comprising an upper end portion having pivot portions, said pivot portions comprising pivot pins adapted for swingable connection to the latch mounting portion on the box, and an elongate upright resiliently flexible body portion formed integrally with and extending between the horizontally extending upper tab portion to the curved bight portion. 2. The latch according to claim 1, wherein the upper and lower tab portions confront each other. 3. The latch according to claim 1, wherein the connector peg is disposed adjacent the catch portion of the upper tab portion. 4. The latch according to claim 1, wherein the connector peg traverses said upper tab portion. 5. A manually and robot operated latch for a two part silicon wafer storage box having a latch mounting portion on one part and a keeper portion on the other part for use with the latch, comprising: a horizontally extending rigid upper tab portion, comprising a first end portion having a catch portion, the catch portion comprising a hook shaped portion adapted for releasable engagement with the keeper portion, said horizontally extending rigid upper tab portion further comprising a second end portion having an elongate connector peg having opposite ends, disposed adjacent the catch portion, traversing the upper tab portion, said connector peg adapted to be alternately manually operated and robot operated for engaging or releasing the catch from the keeper portion, a resiliently flexible curved bight portion having a horizontally extending rigid lower tab portion, said lower tab portion adapted for confrontational relation to the upper tab portion, said curved bight portion comprising an upper end portion having pivot portions, said pivot portions comprising pivot pins adapted for swingable engagement to the latch mounting portion on the box, and an elongate resiliently flexible upright body portion formed integrally with and extending between the horizontally extending upper tab portion and the curved bight portion. 6. A manually and robot operated latch for a two part semiconductor wafer storage box comprising a latch mounting portion on the wall of the box bottom and a keeper portion on the box cover, the latch comprising a pivot portion swingably mounted on said latch mounting portion and a catch portion engaging the keeper portion, characterized in that an elongate and upright body portion connects to and depends from the catch portion and is formed integrally therewith, a robotic connector peg formed integrally of the catch portion and to be operated for releasing the catch portion, a resiliently flexible bight portion formed integrally with said body portion and said pivot portion, said bight portion extending transversely of said elongate body portion and extending upwardly to said pivot portion, and the bight portion being swingable toward and into engagement with the wall of the box bottom when the catch portion is released from the keeper portion, whereby the robotic connector peg resides in either of only two readily accessible locations when the catch portion is engaged with and disengaged from the keeper portion. 7. A manually and robot operated latch according to claim 6 and further characterized in that said elongate body portion is also resiliently flexible. 8. A manually and robot operated latch according to claim 7 and further characterized in that rigid tab portions protrude from opposite ends of the elongate body portion, said tab portions accommodating manual gripping in order to flex the body portion and thereby disengage the catch portion from the keeper portion. 