A unitary end bell 66 includes a body 90 and a bridging section 92, and is assembled with a lamination stack 74 in the formation of a stator subassembly 150. End bell 66 is formed with base surfaces 118 at one end which insulate adjacent portions of lamination stack 74 from coil windings 152, and is further formed with wire-retaining shrouds 110 which retain coil windings 152 in a wound configuration. Bridging section 92, which straddles the other end of body 90, is formed with brush channels 120 for supporting brush boxes and a bearing nest 138 for supporting an armature bearing. Methods of assembling the elements to form stator subassembly 150, and various assembly aids such as shroud support 168 and pallet 212 are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stator subassembly end member comprising; a ring shaped body having a central axis; a wire retaining means formed integrally with the body for maintaining wire of a coil winding of a stator subassembly in a confined arrangement; the wire retaining means including a retainer member having a face against which portions of the wire of the coil winding are located during the period when the coil winding is being formed; the face defined by a pair of opposed edges extending in the same general direction as the central axis and an edge extending between the opposed edges; and a cam element extending outwardly from the face of the retainer member adjacent to and along one of the opposed edges to direct adjacent engaging portions of the wire of the coil winding away from the face during the forming of the coil winding. 2. The end member as set forth in claim 1, wherein the cam element is formed with a tapering surface so that each engaging portion of the wire of the coil winding is directed progressively further away from the face of the retainer as the engaging portion moves over the cam element. 3. A stator subassembly end member comprising: a plastic body formed in a ring-like configuration and having a central opening and a central axis; a wire-retaining shroud integrally formed with the body and having a wall extending into the central opening of the body; a nest formed partially by the wall of the wire-retaining shroud for receiving and retaining portions of wire of a coil winding deposited therein; said wall having an edge extending in the same general direction as the central axis; and a cam element formed adjacent and along the edge of the wall for directing engaging portions of the wire of the coil winding away from adjacent portions of the wall as the winding is deposited into the nest. 4. A stator subassembly comprising: a field core having a central axis; a coil winding formed by wire; an end member assembled with one end of the field core; wire-retaining means formed integrally with the end member for maintaining an adjacent portion of the wire of the coil winding in a confined arrangement; the wire-retaining means having an edge extending in the same general direction as the central axis; an insulating liner located between the wire of the coil winding and the field core having portions adjacent to the wire-retaining means of the end member; and means formed adjacent and along the edge of the wire-retaining means for directing the wire of the coil winding away from the adjacent portions of the insulating liner during a period when the wire is being deposited into the wire-retaining means to form the coil winding. 5. A shroud support for supporting a wire-retaining shroud of a stator subassembly end member during a wire winding operation to form a coil winding of a stator subassembly, which comprises: means positionable in engagement with the wire-retaining shroud for bolstering the shroud; means for securing the bolstering means to the stator subassembly in a position to bolster the shroud; and means formed in the shroud support for facilitating movement of the bolstering means into the position to bolster the shroud. 6. A shroud support for supporting a wire-retaining shroud of an end member of a stator subassembly during a period when wire is being wound into engagement with the shroud and a field coil of the stator subassembly, which comprises: a pair of interfacing sections; means for retaining the two sections biasingly together to permit limited separation; means formed in the sections for facilitating movement and separation of the pair of sections; means formed in the sections for securing the pair of sections to the stator subassembly; and means formed on at least one of the pair of sections and positionable adjacent the shroud for bolstering the shroud during the period. 7. The shroud support as set forth in claim 6, wherein the securing means includes each section being formed with a latch, the latches being spaced apart and positionable about spaced portions of the field core to secure the sections to the stator subassembly. 8. The shroud support as set forth in claim 6, wherein the stator subassembly further includes an insulating liner located adjacent a portion of the field core and the end member, and wherein the shroud support is formed with means positionable over an adjacent portion of the insulating liner for directing the wire away from a portion of the liner adjacent to the end member during the period when the wire is being wound. 