A wire guide includes a notch cut in one face and a plurality of spaced webs oriented transversely in the notch to define a predetermined line for the wire at the bottom of a V-shaped valley fabricated into the webs. The webs support the wire so that a robot tool, having notches corresponding to the webs, can align with the webs along the line and can descend into the notches of the guide to acquire the wire in a retaining groove.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for acquiring a wire with a tool on a robot, comprising the steps of: (a) orienting the wire generally along a predetermined line by positioning the wire in the valley of a V-block wire guide, the guide having at least one, traverse V-shaped web, the "V" of the web defining an apex at its lowest point; (b) supporting the wire on the web; (c) lowering the robot tool in a plane including the line, the tool including a longitudinal groove, a mouth leading from a foot of the tool to the groove, and at least two fingers on each side of the groove to define the mouth, the fingers being longitudinally spaced by at least a distance equal to the thickness of the transverse web to define a transverse notch; (d) snapping the wire into the groove on the tool by lowering the tool into the guide to align the notch with the web and to confine the wire in the mouth of the tool; and (e) raising the tool with the wire retained in the groove. 2. The acquisition method of claim 1 wherein, when snapping the wire into the groove, a portion of each finger extends downwardly into the guide to a depth below the apex of the web. 3. The acquisition method of claim 1 wherein the guide has a plurality of spaced transverse webs each having an apex so that the apexes of all the webs define the predetermined line and wherein the tool has a plurality of corresponding transverse notches defined by a plurality of spaced fingers so that when the tool is lowered into the guide the fingers of interdigitate with the webs. 4. The acquisition method of claim 3 wherein, when snapping the wire into the groove, a portion of each finger extends downwardly into the guide to a depth below the deepest apex of the webs. 5. The acquisition method of claim 4 wherein the transverse notches of the tool intersect with the longitudinal groove. 6. The acquisition method of claim 4 wherein the apexes of the guide webs are at a common, substantially equal depth within the guide. 7. The acquisition method of claim 1 wherein the guide is mounted on a stabilizing base having an area significantly larger than the "V" of the guide so that the guide remains steady during the acquisition of the wire by the robot tool. 8. The acquisition method of claim 2 wherein the webs are substantially equally spaced to support the wire relatively uniformly in the guide. 9. The acquisition method of claim 8 wherein the apexes of the webs are at a common, substantially equal depth within the guide so that the tool contacts the wire and acquires the wire substantially simultaneously along the length of the tool. 10. The acquisition method of claim 1 wherein the tool is lowered substantially perpendicular to the predetermined line. 11. The acquisition method of claim 1 wherein the tool travels in substantially a straight line into the guide when acquiring the wire and when rising out from the guide. 