A spray end effector for spray painting internal cavities of complex shapes comprising a first elongated arm having an inboard end with attachment means for coupling to a robot and also having an outboard end; a second elongated arm having an inboard end fixedly coupled to the outboard end of the first arm and also having an outboard end; a third elongated arm having an inboard end pivotally coupled to the outboard end of the second arm and also having an outboard end with a rod for supporting a spray gun rotationally coupled with respect thereto; a first air motor having a shaft rotatable about its axis located within the second arm for rotating a jack screw and longitudinally driving a threaded housing to effect the pivotal movement of the third arm with respect to the second arm; a second air motor having a shaft rotatable about its axis located within the third arm for rotating a speed reducer to effect the rotational movement of the rod with respect to the third arm; and means to effect the proper rotational positioning of the rod and spray gun with respect to the third arm and workpiece.
Claims Now that the invention has been described, what is claimed is: 1. A spray end effector for spray painting internal cavities of complex shapes comprising: a first elongated arm having an inboard end with attachment means for coupling to a robot and also having an outboard end; a second elongated arm having an inboard end fixedly coupled to the outboard end of the first arm and also having an outboard end; a third elongated arm having an inboard end pivotally coupled to the outboard end of the second arm and also having an outboard end with a rod for supporting a spray gun rotationally coupled with respect thereto; a first air motor having a shaft rotatable about its axis located within the second arm for rotating a jack screw and longitudinally driving a threaded housing to effect the pivotal movement of the third arm with respect to the second arm; a second air motor having a shaft rotatable about its axis located within the third arm for rotating a speed reducer to effect the rotational movement of the rod with respect to the third arm; and means to effect the proper rotational positioning of the rod and spray gun with respect to the third arm and workpiece. 2. A spray end effector comprising: a first elongated portion having an inboard end coupleable to a robot arm and also having an outboard end; a second elongated portion having an inboard end fixedly coupled to the outboard end of the first portion and also having an outboard end; a third elongated portion having an inboard end pivotally coupled to the outboard end of the second portion and also having an outboard end with an attachment device; first drive means located within the second portion for effecting the pivotal movement of the third portion with respect to the second portion; and second drive means located within the third portion for effecting the rotational movement of the attachment device with respect to the third portion; said second drive means including a rotatable air motor and a harmonic drive coupled to the attachment device for reducing the rotational speed of the attachment device with respect to the air motor. 3. The spray end effector as set forth in claim 2 wherein the first drive means includes a rotatable air motor and an axially reciprocable housing with internal threads and a jack screw secured at one end to the air motor and with external threads at the other end in engagement with the internal threads of the housing whereby rotation of the air motor will axially shift the housing. 4. The spray end effector as set forth in claim 2 and further including a locating head rotatable with the attachment device with a plurality of dimples formed therein and an axially shiftable pin positionable in one of the dimples to ensure proper positioning of the attachment device with respect the third elongated portion. 5. The spray end effector as set forth in claim 4 and further including sensors positioned around the attachment device for verifying the rotational position thereof. 6. For use in a spray end effector, or the like, apparatus for converting rotational motion of a drive member to rotational motion of a driven member comprising: an air motor having a rotatable output shaft constituting a drive member; a drive having an input end coupled to the output shaft for rotation therewith at a first speed and an output end rotatable at a second speed, less than the first speed; a rotatable element constituting the driven member coupled to the output end of the drive; and positioning means to effect the proper rotational positioning of the driven member; said positioning means including a locating head rotatable with the driven member with a plurality of dimples formed therein and an axially shiftable pin positionable in one of the dimples to ensure proper positioning of the driven member with respect to the drive. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 6 and further including sensors positioned around the driven member for verifying the rotational position thereof. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein the sensors are magnetic sensors to detect the position of a magnet rotatable with the driven member. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein the sensors are optical sensors to detect the position of detents in a collar rotatable with the driven member. 