A conformal image processing apparatus and method in which image information is quantized into volume elements which are represented and stored in an array in such a fashion as to preserve their positional and orientational correlations. Data thus stored may be easily manipulated to model a number of three-dimensional operatoins on sensed objects and volumes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for storing data relating to a plurality of voxels in a three-dimensional space extending a characteristic number A of voxels in an a-dimension, a characteristic number B of voxels in a b-dimension, and a characteristic number C of voxels in a c-dimension comprising: an array of N processing cells, N being the product of A and B, each of said cells being uniquely associated with a respective pair of coordinates a,b in said three-dimensional space and having a memory having a number of allocations at least equal to C and being capable of storing a condition indicator for each voxel having said coordinates a,b; and means connected to said array for storing said data relating to said voxels such that a cell associated with a given pair of coordinates a,b stores in said memory in a predetermined order said condition indicator for each voxel having said coordinates a,b. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said a-dimension and b-dimension are x and y dimensions, respectively, and wherein said array is an A by B rectangular array. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said condition is occupancy of the voxel by at least part of an object. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further comprising means connected to said array for generating said condition indicator for each voxel. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said generating means comprises means connected to said array for sensing a position of an object in said three-dimensional space and for generating as said condition indicator for each voxel an indication of whether said each voxel is occupied by at least part of said object. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 5 further comprising means, connected to said array, for controlling data flow within and between said cells to correspond to operations on said object. 7. An apparatus comprising: means for providing data including a condition indicator indicating a condition of a voxel at coordinates a.sub.1, b.sub.1, c.sub.1 in directions a, b, c, respectively; an array of M processing cells, M being the product of a number of voxels N.sub.a along direction a and a number of voxels N.sub.b along direction b, each of said cells corresponding to a particular coordinate pair a.sub.m, b.sub.n, respectively, m and n each being an integer not greater than N.sub.a and N.sub.b, respectively, each of said cells having a memory capable of storing N.sub.c condition indicators related to a particular pair a.sub.m, b.sub.n of coordinates, N.sub.c being a number of voxels along direction c; and means, responsive to said data providing means and connected to said array, for loading said condition indicator into a c.sub.1 th address in said memory of said cell associated with coordinates a.sub.1, b.sub.1. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said a and b directions correspond to x and y directions, respectively, and wherein said array comprises an N.sub.a by N.sub.b rectangular array. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said data providing means comprises means for sensing said condition of said voxel at said coordinates a.sub.1, b.sub.1, c.sub.1 and for generating said condition indicator indicative of the sensed condition. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said condition is occupancy of the voxel by at least part of an object. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 10 further comprising means, connected to said array, for controlling data flow within and between said cells to correspond to operations on said object. 12. An apparatus comprising: means for providing positional data indicative of three coordinates a,b,c of each of a plurality of voxels forming at least part of a predetermined three-dimensional space, and for generating a condition indicator indicative of a condition of each of said voxels, respectively; an array of M processing cells, M being the product of a number of voxels N.sub.a having a differing set of a coordinates and a number of voxels N.sub.b having a differing set of b coordinates for said predetermined three-dimensional space, each of said cells having a memory capable of storing N.sub.c condition indicators related to a particular pair a,b of coordinates not greater than N.sub.a and N.sub.b, respectively, corresponding to said cell, N.sub.c being a number of voxels having a differing set of c coordinates in said three-dimensional space; and means, responsive to said data providing means and connected to said array, for loading said condition indicators into said array such that a cell corresponding to a given pair of coordinates a,b stores in said memory in a predetermined order said condition indicators associated with said coordinate pair a,b. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said coordinates a,b, and c correspond to x,y, and z coordinates, and wherein said array comprises an N.sub.a by N.sub.b rectangular array. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said data providing means comprises: means for sensing the conditions of said plurality of voxels forming at least part of said predetermined three-dimensional space, and for generating signals indicative of the sensed conditions; and means, responsive to said sensing means, for converting said signals for each voxel into said positional digital data indicative of the three coordinates a,b,c of each of said voxels and the condition indicators indicative of the sensed condition of each of said voxels. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein said condition of each of said voxels is occupancy of said each of said voxels by at least part of an object. 16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 15 further comprising means, connected to said array, for controlling data flow within and between said cells to correspond to operations on said object. 17. An apparatus for gathering and manipulating data relating to a position and configuration of an object in a three-dimensional space extending a characteristic number N.sub.a voxels in an a-dimension and a characteristic number N.sub.b voxels in a b-dimension, comprising: an array of processing cells each uniquely associated with a respective pair of coordinates a,b and having a memory capable of storing an indication of whether a portion of said object occupies a voxel having coordinates a,b,c at a cth address in said memory; and means connected with said array for storing said indication at said cth address of said memory of said cell associated with said coordinate pair a,b. 18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17 wherein said a and b dimensions correspond to x and y dimensions, respectively, and wherein said array is an N.sub.a by N.sub.b rectangular array. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 17 further comprising: means for sensing surface portions of said object; and means, responsive to said sensing means, for generating an indication for each voxel at x,y,z whether said surface portion occupies said voxel. 20. An apparatus for gathering and manipulating data relating to a position and configuration of an object in a three-dimensional space extending a characteristic number N.sub.x of voxels in an x-dimension and a characteristic number N.sub.y of voxels in a y-dimension, comprising: means for sensing portions of said object and for generating signals indicative of x, y, and z coordinates of said portions; a rectangular N.sub.x by N.sub.y array of processing cells each uniquely associated with a respective pair of coordinates x,y and having a memory capable of storing an indication of whether said portion occupies a voxel having coordinates x,y,z at a zth address in said memory: means, connected to said sensing means and said array, and responsive to said signals, for generating said indication for each voxel at x,y,z and for storing said indication at said zth address of said memory of said cell associated with said coordinate pair x,y; and means, connected to said array, for controlling data storage in and between said cells in such a manner as to correspond to operations on said object in said space. 21. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein said operation comprises translation. 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein said operation comprises rotation. 23. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein said operation comprises magnification. 24. An apparatus comprising: means for generating a plurality of binary encoded condition indicators, each for a respective one of a like number of physical volume elements at known physical relative positions and orientations, each of said condition indicators being indicative of a predefined condition of the respective physical volume element; and a memory, responsive to said generating means, and having a like number of virtual memory elements each at a virtual relative position and orientation corresponding to said physical relative position and orientation of a respective one of said plurality of physical volume elements, for conformally storing at each of said virtual memory elements the condition indicator for said respective one of said plurality of physical volume elements so that relative positioning and orientation of said condition indicators is implicitly preserved. 25. A method of storing data relating to a plurality of voxels in a three-dimensional space extending a characteristic number N.sub.a of voxels in an a-dimension, a characteristic number N.sub.b of voxels in a b-dimension, and a characteristic number N.sub.c of voxels in a c-dimension, comprising the step of: storing said data relating to said voxels in an array of M processing cells, M being the product of N.sub.a and N.sub.b, each of said cells being uniquely associated with a respective pair of coordinates a,b in said three-dimensional space and having a memory having a number of allocations at least equal to N.sub.c and being capable of storing a condition indicator for each voxel having said coordinates a,b such that a cell associated with a given pair of coordinates a,b stores in said memory in a predetermined order said condition indicator for each voxel having said coordinates a,b. 26. A method as claimed in claim 25 further comprising a step, before said storing step, of acquiring said data. 27. A method as claimed in claim 26 wherein said acquiring step comprises the steps of: sensing a condition of each of said voxels; and generating said condition indicator for each voxel on the basis of the sensed condition of each voxel. 28. A method as claimed in claim 27 further comprising the step, after said storing step, of controlling data flow within and between cells to correspond to operations in said three-dimensional space. 29. A method comprising the steps of: providing data including a condition indicator indicating a condition of a voxel at coordinates a.sub.1, b.sub.1, c.sub.1 in directions a, b, c, respectively; and loading said data into an array of M processing cells, M being the product of a number of voxels N.sub.a along direction a and a number of voxels N.sub.b along direction b, each of said cells corresponding to a particular coordinate pair a.sub.m, b.sub.n, m and n each being an integer not greater than N.sub.a and N.sub.b, respectively, each of said cells having a memory capable of storing N.sub.c condition indicators related to a particular pair a.sub.m, b.sub.n of coordinates, N.sub.c being a number of voxels along direction c, such that said condition indicator is stored in a c.sub.1 th address in said memory of said cell associated with coordinates a.sub.1, b.sub.1. 30. A method as claimed in claim 29 wherein said providing step comprises the steps of: sensing said condition of said voxel at said coordinates a.sub.1, b.sub.1, c.sub.1 ; and generating said condition indicator indicative of the sensed condition. 31. A method as claimed in claim 30 further comprising the step, after said loading step, of controlling data flow within and between cells to correspond to operations in said three-dimensional space. 32. A method comprising the steps of: providing positional data indicative of three coordinates a,b,c of each of a plurality of voxels forming at least part of a predetermined three-dimensional space, and a condition indicator indicative of a condition of each of said voxels; and loading said positional data and condition indicators into an array of M processing cells, M being the product of a number N.sub.a of voxels having a differing set of a coordinates and a number N.sub.b of voxels having a differing set of b coordinates, each of said cells having a memory capable of storing N.sub.c condition indicators related to a particular pair a,b of coordinates corresponding to said cell, N.sub.c being a number of voxels having a differing set of c coordinates, such that a cell corresponding to a given pair of coordinates a,b stores in said memory in a predetermined order said condition indicators associated with said coordinate pair a,b. 33. A method as claimed in claim 32 wherein said condition of said each of said voxels is occupancy of the voxel by at least part of an object. 34. A method as claimed in claim 32 wherein said data providing step comprises the steps of: sensing the conditions of said plurality of voxels forming at least part of said predetermined three-dimensional space: generating signals indicative of the sensed conditions; and converting said signals for each voxel into said positional digital data indicative of the three coordinates a,b,c of each of said voxels and the condition indicators indicative of the sensed condition of each of said voxels. 35. A method as claimed in claim 34 further comprising the step, after said loading step, of controlling data flow within and between cells to correspond to operations in said three-dimensional space. 36. A method for gathering and manipulating data relating to a position and configuration of an object in a three-dimensional space extending a characteristic number N.sub.x of voxels in an x-dimension and a characteristic number N.sub.y of voxels in a y-dimension, comprising the steps of: sensing portions of said object; generating an indication for the voxel at each x,y,z whether said portion occupies said voxel; storing said indication in a rectangular N.sub.x by N.sub.y array of processing cells each uniquely associated with a respective pair of coordinates x,y and having a memory capable of storing an indication of whether said portion occupies a voxel having coordinates x,y,z at a zth address in said memory, at said zth address of said memory of said cell associated with said coordinate pair x,y; and controlling further data storage in and between said cells in such a manner as to correspond to operations on said object in said space. 37. A method as claimed in claim 36 wherein said controlling step comprises controlling transfer in and between cells in such a manner as to correspond to translation of said object in said space. 38. A method as claimed in claim 36 wherein said controlling step comprises controlling transfer in and between cells in such a manner as to correspond to rotation of said object in said space. 39. A method as claimed in claim 36 wherein said controlling step comprises controlling transfer in and between cells in such a manner as to correspond to magnification of said object in said space. 