A robotic gripper apparatus having a pair of finger support assemblies associated with a slot and a slotted disk provides longitudinal movement when the slotted disk is rotated. The apparatus includes a mechanism for varying the circumferential position of the finger support assemblies around the circumference of the apparatus about an axis perpendicular to the plane of the slotted disk.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for mechanically gripping an object, comprising: a support structure; a generally circular slotted disk having a slot formed therein, said disk being adapted to be rotated relative to said support structure about an axis generally perpendicular to the plane of said disk; at least one finger support assembly supported on said support structure and having means engaging said slotted disk; and guide means for adjustably supporting said at least one finger support assembly at various circumferential positions relative to said support structure about an axis perpendicular to the plane of said slotted disk. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one finger support assembly comprises an inner support member, an outer support member, a pair of support shafts disposed generally parallel to the plane of said slotted disk and extending between said inner and outer support members, and a finger mounting block mounted about said pair of support shafts and being adapted to reciprocate linearly there along. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, further including fastening means disposed generally perpendicularly to the plane of s id slotted disk and positioned centrally through said slotted disk and said support structure. 4. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said support structure comprises: an annular disk positioned in a plane generally parallel to the plane of said slotted disk; and a generally circular base member positioned in a plane generally parallel to and spaced apart from said annular disk. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said guide means comprises a first slot circumferentially disposed on a bottom surface of said annular disk and a second slot circumferentially disposed on a top surface of said base member in opposing relation to said slot of said annular disk. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said guide means further comprises a pair of pins disposed on said outer support member, each one of said pair of pins being located on opposing sides of said outer support member and being journaled in a respective slot of said annular disk and said base member for sliding movement therein. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said guide means further includes an upper cylindrical collar having a slot disposed on a bottom surface thereof and a lower cylindrical collar having a slot disposed on an upper surface thereof, each collar surrounding said fastening means and separated a predetermined distance with respect to one another. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said guide means further comprises a top pin disposed on a top surface of said inner support member and adapted to engage said slot of said upper collar and a bottom pin disposed on a bottom surface of said inner support member and adapted to engage said slot of said lower collar. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, further including bearing means operatively associated with said slotted disk for providing rotation of said slotted disk relative to said fastening means. 10. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said support structure further includes a third plate generally parallel to said slotted disk and disposed subjacent thereto, said third plate including bearing means for permitting said slotted disk to rotate relative thereto. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10, further including a plurality of fasteners circumferentially disposed around said base member and securing said annular disk and said base member so that upon loosening said fasteners, said finger support assembly can be moved circumferentially of said base member and upon tightening said fasteners, the position of said finger support assembly is fixed. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, further including a second finger support assembly. 13. An apparatus according to claim 2, further including a roller bearing interposed between said finger mounting block and said slot of said slotted disk. 14. An apparatus for mechanically gripping an object, comprising: a generally circular slotted disk having a slot formed therein and adapted to be rotated about an axis generally perpendicular to the plane of said disk; an annular disk positioned in a plane generally parallel to and adjacent the plane of said slotted disk, said disk having a circumferential slot disposed on a bottom surface thereof; a generally circular base member positioned in a plane generally parallel to the plane of said slotted disk, said plate having a circumferential slot disposed on a top surface thereof in opposing relationship to said slot of said annular disk; an upper cylindrical collar having a circumferential slot disposed on a bottom surface thereof and a lower cylindrical collar having a circumferential slot disposed on an upper surface thereof, each collar surrounding a threaded fastener perpendicular to the axis of said slotted disk and projecting centrally through said disk; a pair of finger support assemblies supported between said annular disk and said base member and having means engaging said slotted disk, each one of said pair of finger support assemblies comprising: an inner support member having a top pin disposed on a top surface thereof and adapted to engage said slot of said upper collar and a bottom pin disposed on a bottom surface thereof and adapted to engage said slot of said lower collar; an outer support member having a top pin disposed on a top surface thereof and adapted to engage said slot of said annular disk and a bottom pin disposed on a bottom surface thereof and adapted to engage said slot of said base member; and a pair of support shafts disposed generally parallel to the plane of said slotted disk and extending between said inner and outer support members; and a finger mounting block mounted about said pair of support shafts for receiving a mechanical finger thereon and being adapted to reciprocate linearly therealong; whereby, the circumferential position of said pair of finger support assemblies can be varied around the circumference of said annular disk and said base member about an axis perpendicular to the plane of said slotted disk. 15. An apparatus according to claim 14, further including a third finger support assembly. 