A system and method for dispensing a viscous adhesive onto a glass member to be attached to a vehicle body is disclosed. A reciprocating pump supplies adhesive to a dispensing point, with a pulse dampener member disposed between the pump and the dispensing point. A rolling diaphragm defines two chambers within the pulse dampener member, with the adhesive being communicated into a first variable volume chamber. A pressurized gas force is maintained on the opposite side of the diaphragm from the first variable volume chamber. The pulse dampener member includes a T-connection, with the pump supplying fluid into a first leg, the second leg being connected to the variable volume chamber and the third leg connected to the dispensing point. As fluid enters the first leg, the amount of fluid demanded at the dispensing point moves from the first leg directly into the third leg. Any excess fluid supplied into the first leg moves upwardly into the variable volume chamber through the second leg. Should there be a deficiency in the amount of adhesive supplied by the pump, as would typically occur during low flow rate portions of the cycle of the reciprocating pump, the force from the pressurized gas chamber forces the rolling diaphragm to reduce the volume of the variable volume chamber and dispense fluid stored in the variable volume chamber into the third leg. A rotary valve is mounted at the dispensing point to provide accurate and rapid control of the amount of fluid dispensed. Most preferably, the rotary valve is mounted to a robot arm, and the pulse dampener member is mounted to a base of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of dispensing fluid comprising the steps of: (1) forming a pulse removing member having a variable volume chamber and maintaining a force on the variable volume chamber tending to reduce its volume; (2) supplying a viscous fluid to the pulse removing member, the pulse removing member including a T-connection with a first leg attached to the supply of viscous fluid, a second leg extending into the variable volume chamber and a third leg communicating with a variable demand dispensing point, such that fluid entering the first leg from the supply will pass into the third leg up to an amount demanded at the dispensing point, any excess fluid above that demanded at the dispensing point will pass through the second leg into the variable volume chamber, and should there be a deficiency in the fluid flow rate in the first leg, such that it is less than the fluid demanded at the dispensing point, that deficiency will be made up by fluid forced outwardly of the variable volume chamber and into the third leg; and (3) maintaining the force on the variable volume chamber tending to reduce its volume such that the viscous fluid moves out of the variable volume chamber and into the third leg at a rate demanded by the dispensing point. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, further including the steps of disposing a rotary metering valve at the dispensing point, and rotating the rotary metering valve to control the amount of viscous fluid dispensed. 3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein the viscous fluid is an adhesive which is dispensed onto a first member that is to be attached to a second member. 4. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein the first member is a glass member and the second member is a vehicle body. 5. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein the dispensing point is moved along the glass member, and rotation of the rotary valve is synchronized with the position of the dispensing point along the glass member to control the amount of adhesive dispensed as a function of position on the glass member. 6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the dispensing point is connected to the arm of a robotic manipulator, and movement of the robot arm causes the movement of the dispensing point, and the pulse removing member is connected to a rotating base of said robotic manipulator. 7. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the viscous fluid is an adhesive which is dispensed onto a first member that is to be attached to a second member. 8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein the first member is a glass member, the second member is a vehicle body, and the adhesive is a urethane adhesive, which begins to cure upon contact with ambient air. 9. The method of dispensing an adhesive at a dispensing point comprising the steps of: (1) supplying an adhesive to a metering nozzle at a dispensing point; (2) disposing a rotary valve in the metering nozzle and rotating the rotary valve to control the amount of adhesive dispensed at the metering nozzle; and (3) dispensing the adhesive at various positions on a first member that is to be attached to a second member, and controlling the rotated position of the rotary valve to meter a desired minimum amount of adhesive at the various positions on the first member. 10. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein the first member is a glass member and the second member is a vehicle body. 11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the dispensing point is moved along the glass member by a robotic manipulator, and the rotary valve is rotated to control the amount of adhesive dispensed at various positions on the glass member as the dispensing point is moved. 12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the adhesive is a urethane adhesive which begins to cure upon contact with ambient air. 