An apparatus for precisely controlling the movement and position of objects. The apparatus includes at least one moveable arm and a system for optically measuring the movement of the arm. The optical measurement system includes an optical fiber loop capable of producing microbend-induced optical attenuation when the loop is physically deformed by the movement of the arm. The apparatus further includes a signal source, a signal detector, and signal processing system for determining the attenuation of the signal between the signal source and the signal detector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: an arm having a first member and a second member, said first and second members being connected together at a joint and moveable relative to each other about said joint to a plurality of positions; and optical fiber position means coupled to said arm for optically measuring the movement and position of said first and second members relative to each other, wherein said optical fiber position means comprises: (a) at least one optical fiber capable of providing optical attenuation in response to microbending of said optical fiber, said optical fiber having an input portion, an output portion and a loop portion therebetween, located in proximity to said joint; (b) means for fixedly coupling said optical fiber input portion to said arm first member; (c) means for fixedly coupling said optical fiber output portion to said arm second member wherein the movement of said first and second members relative to each other causes microbending of said optical fiber loop portion; (d) signal source means coupled to the optical fiber input portion for introducing an optical signal into said optical fiber; (e) detector means coupled to the optical fiber output portion for measuring the optical signal at the output portion of said optical fiber; and (f) means for determining the modulation of said optical signal between said input portion and said output portion of said optical fiber to provide a measure of the movement and position of said first and second members of said arm. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said loop portion comprises a single loop. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said loop portion comprises a plurality of loops. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said optical fiber comprises metal-coated glass. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said arm is part of a robotics elbow assembly. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said movement is an angular displacement of said arm. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein at least one of said first and second members includes optical fiber pressure means for optically measuring pressure exerted against said member, wherein said optical fiber pressure means comprises at least one optical fiber capable of providing optical attenuation in response to microbending of said optical fiber. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said optical fiber pressure means comprises: pressure pad means for measuring pressure applied to a pressure pad wherein said pad is located adjacent to one of said members and is moveable laterally in response to pressure; and at least one optical fiber having an input portion, an output portion, and a loop portion coupled on one side to said pressure pad and on the opposite side to a support structure; signal source means coupled to the optical fiber input portion for introducing an optical signal into said optical fiber; detector means coupled to the output end of the optical fiber for measuring the optical signal at the output end of said optical fiber; and means for determining the modulation of said optical signal between the input portion and output portion of said optical fiber to provide a measure of the lateral movement of said pressure pad in response to said pressure. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said arm is part of a robotics gripper hand. 10. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said loop portion is a single loop. 11. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said loop portion is a plurality of loops. 12. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said optical fiber comprises metal-coated glass. 13. An apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said movement is a tactile grip. 14. An apparatus comprising: an arm having at least one member, said member being moveable in response to pressure; optical fiber pressure means adjacent to said member for optically measuring pressure exerted by or against said member, wherein said optical fiber pressure means comprises: (a) at least one optical fiber capable of providing optical attenuation in response to microbending of said optical fiber, said optical fiber having an input portion, an output portion and a loop portion coupled on one side to said pressure pad and on the opposite side to a support structure; (b) pressure pad means for measuring pressure applied to a pressure pad wherein said pad is located adjacent to said member and is moveable laterally in response to pressure; (c) signal source means coupled to the optical fiber input portion for introducing an optical signal into said optical fiber; (d) detector means coupled to the output end of the optical fiber for measuring the optical signal at the output end of said optical fiber; and (e) means for determining the modulation of said optical signal between the input portion and output portion of said optical fiber to provide a measure of the lateral movement of said pressure pad in response to said pressure. 15. An apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said arm is part of a robotics hand gripper. 16. An apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said loop portion is a single loop. 17. An apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said loop portion is a plurality of loops. 18. An apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said optical fiber is metal-coated glass. 19. A method for determining movement comprising: providing an arm having a first member and a second member, said first and second members being connected together at a joint and moveable relative to each other about said joint to a plurality of positions; coupling an optical fiber to said first member and said second member, wherein said optical fiber has an input portion, an output portion, and a loop portion therebetween located in proximity to said joint, and said optical fiber responds to said movement with microbending; optical measuring a microbend induced optical attenuation by the steps of: (a) introducing an optical signal into said input end of said optical fiber; (b) measuring said optical signal at said output end of said optical fiber; (c) determining said attenuation of said optical signal between said input end and said output end of said optical fiber; and determining said movement based on said measurement of said attenuation. 20. A method for determining movement according to claim 19 wherein at least one of said first and second members includes optical fiber pressure means for optically measuring pressure exerted against said member, wherein said optical fiber pressure means comprises at least one optical fiber capable of providing optical attenuation in response to microbending of said optical fiber. 21. A method for determining movement according to claim 19 wherein said loop portion comprises a plurality of loops. 