An apparatus and method for automatically aliquotting liquids, such as blood serum, is described. The invention provides a completely automatic, clean, self-contained system for collecting and aliquotting liquids and simultaneously cleaning the aliquotting system. The system includes a serum loading station, a sensing station, an indexing table for advancing test tubes to a collection station, an aliquotting station and a wash station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid collection system for a plurality of test tubes, the system comprising means for selectively determining the quantity of fluid required to be withdrawn from an individual test tube, wherein the test tube has a closed end and an open end, the open end being sealed by a self-sealing cap, and a fluid collection device which comprises: a. gripping means for releasibly holding the test tube in a substantially inverted vertical posture such that the sealed open end is situated at the bottom of the test tubes; b. a fluid collection device positioned below the test tube, the fluid collection device including a penetrating and fluid-extracting needle having a distal and proximal end, wherein the distal end includes an orifice adapted to penetrate the self-sealing cap of the test tube such that the distal end of the needle barely penetrates the cap of the test tube, and a fluid collection container; and c. vacuum means connected to the fluid collection device and adapted to create a fluid withdrawing vacuum, a means to selectively control the vacuum means to withdraw a quantity of fluid previously determined to be required for the individual test tube. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the fluid collection container contains capillary tubing adapted to receive the fluid, the tubing having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end is connected to the needle and the second end is connected to the vacuum means. 3. The system according to claim 2 wherein the tubing has been previously filled with a pump fluid. 4. The system according to claim 2 wherein the vacuum means is a peristaltic pump. 