An end-effector apparatus, used in combination with a machining device and robotic arm, for use in template-guided robotic machining a workpiece. The end-effector apparatus includes a holding means which holds a guide bushing against the machining template in a consistent orientation with a constant force independent of the orientation of the end-effector apparatus. The end-effector apparatus further includes two separate means for translational travel of the machining device. This translational travel allows the machining device cutting element to controllably follow substantial contour changes along the periphery of the template with a minimal number of spatial coordinates required to be programmed within an interfacing computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In combination with both a machining device, having a cutting element, and a robotic arm, an end-effector apparatus for use in template-guided machining of a workpiece, comprising: (a) means, when said end-effector apparatus is in any orientation, for holding a guide bushing of said machining device against said template with constant force; (b) first means for translational movement of said machining device substantially along an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said cutting element, such that said cutting element follows the contour changes along the periphery of said workpiece; and (c) second means for translational movement of said machining device substantially along an axis parallel to the longitudinal axis of said cutting element, such that said cutting element follows the contour changes along the periphery of said workpiece. 2. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said holding means comprises: (a) first pressure application means, wherein said first pressure application means provides a force which, in combination with gravitational force, provides a constant force along said axis perpendicular to said longitudinal axis of said cutting element; (b) second pressure application means, wherein said second pressure application means provides a force which, in combination with gravitational force, provides a constant force along said axis parallel to said longitudinal axis of said cutting element; (c) first means for controlling the amount of pressure supplied by said first pressure application means; and (d) second means for controlling the amount of pressure supplied by said second pressure application means. 3. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said first pressure application means is a first pair of single acting air cylinders and wherein said second pressure application means is a second pair of single acting air cylinders. 4. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said first controlling means comprises: (a) angular measurement means for producing a first signal, wherein said first signal is responsive to angular deviation, relative to gravity, of said machining device; (b) a signal conditioning circuit for receiving said first signal from said angular measurement means and converting said first signal into a second signal; and (c) first pressure regulating means, responsive to said second signal of said signal conditioning circuit, for controlling the amount of pressure supplied by said first pressure application means. 5. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said second controlling means comprises: (a) angular measurement means for producing a first signal, wherein said first signal is responsive to angular deviation, relative to gravity, of said machining device; (b) a signal conditioning circuit for receiving said first signal from said angular measurement means and converting said first signal into a second signal; and (c) first pressure regulating means, responsive to said second signal of said signal conditioning circuit, for controlling the amount of pressure supplied by said second pressure application means. 6. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said angular measurement means is a fluid damped pendulum potentiometer. 7. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein said pressure regulating means is an electronic pressure regulator. 8. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein said angular measurement means is a fluid damped pendulum potentiometer. 9. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein said pressure regulating means is an electronic pressure regulator. 10. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said first movement means is a first pair of linear bearings, and wherein each linear bearing of the pair comprises: (a) a track for travel; and (b) a plurality of ball bearings enclosed by said track. 11. The end-effector apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said second movement means is a second pair of linear bearings, and wherein each linear bearing of the pair comprises: (a) a track for travel; and (b) a plurality of ball bearings enclosed by said track. 12. In combination with both a machining device, having a cutting element, and a robotic arm, an end-effector apparatus for use in template-guided machining of a workpiece, comprising: (a) a first pair of single acting air cylinders for providing a force against the edge of said template along an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said cutting element; (b) a first control means, comprising: (1) a fluid damped pendulum potentiometer for producing a first signal, wherein said first signal is responsive to angular deviation, relative to gravity, of said machining device; (2) a signal conditioning circuit for receiving said first signal from said angular measurement means and converting said first signal into a second signal; (3) an electronic pressure regulator, responsive to said second signal of said signal conditioning circuit, for controlling the amount of pressure supplied by said first pair of single acting air cylinders such that in combination with gravitational forces the pressure applied along an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said cutting element is constant irrespective of the orientation of said machining device with respect to gravity; (c) a second pair of single acting air cylinders for providing a force against the edge of said template along an axis parallel to the longitudinal axis of said cutting element; (d) a second control means, comprising: (1) a fluid damped pendulum potentiometer for producing a first signal, wherein said first signal is responsive to angular deviation, relative to gravity, of said machining device; (2) a signal conditioning circuit for receiving said first signal from said angular measurement means and converting said first signal into a second signal; (3) an electronic pressure regulator, responsive to said second signal of said signal conditioning circuit, for controlling the amount of pressure supplied by said second pair of single acting air cylinders such that in combination with gravitational forces the pressure applied along an axis parallel to the longitudinal axis of said cutting element is constant irrespective of the orientation of said machining device with respect to gravity; (e) a first means for translational movement, comprising: (1) a track for travel which allows said machining device substantial movement along said axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said cutting such that said cutting element follows contour changes along the periphery of said template; and (2) a plurality of ball bearings enclosed by said track; and (f) a second travel means, comprising: (1) a track for travel which allows said machining device substantial movement along said axis parallel to the longitudinal axis of said cutting element such that said cutting element follows contour changes along the periphery of said template; and (2) a plurality of ball bearings enclosed by said track. 