An actuator system provides force feedback to a dextrous master glove. A first, second and third digit support are connectable by hook and loop fasteners to the thumb, index and middle digits of the glove, respectively. First, second and third actuators comprising pneumatic cylinders extend between the first, second and third digit supports and an "L" shaped palm support mountable on the palm of the glove. Sensors mounted on the back of the glove provide electrical signals that are interpreted by a glove interface and forwarded to a host computer. The host computer computes the movement of the glove and provides feedback through a digital-to-analog circuit, and an actuator interface to the first, second and third actuators. Sphere joints connect the first, second and third actuators to the palm support. Each sphere joint includes an air passageway that communicates with the pneumatic force feedback cylinders in the actuators. Cylindrical joints connect the first, second and third digit supports to the first, second and third actuators. The spherical joints permit rotation in a cone of about 60.degree. and provide for realistic three-dimensional manipulation in a compact environment.
Claims I claim: 1. An actuator system for use with a glove having a palm surface, a plurality of digits and back surface with a plurality of sensors mounted thereon for generating electrical signals responsive to the movement of said digits, said system comprising: a first digit support connectable to a first digit of said glove; a palm support spaced from said first digit support and positionable on the palm surface of said glove; a first actuator means comprising a pneumatic cylinder, extending between said supports for providing force feedback to said first digit support as a result of electrical signals generated by at least one of said sensors; and, a first sphere joint for connecting said first actuator means to said palm support, said first sphere joint including an air passageway for communicating with said first pneumatic cylinder. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a second digit support connectable to a second digit of said glove; a second actuator means comprising a second pneumatic cylinder extending between said second digit support and said palm support for providing force feedback to said second digit support as a result of electrical signals generated by at least one of said wherein one of said digits of said glove is a thumb and one of said actuator means is located between the palm support and said thumb. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising: a second sphere joint for connecting said second actuator means to said palm support, said second sphere joint including an air passageway therein for communicating with said second pneumatic cylinder. 4. The system of claim 3 further comprising: a third digit support connectable to a third digit of said glove; and, a third actuator means comprising a third pneumatic cylinder extending between said third digit support and said palm support for providing force feedback to said third digit support as a result of electrical signals generated by at least one of said sensors. 5. The system of claim 4 further comprising: a third sphere joint connected between said third actuator means and said palm support, said third sphere joint including an air passageway therein for communicating with said third pneumatic cylinder. 6. The system of claim 5 further comprising: first, second and third cylindrical joints located between said first, second and third digit supports and said first, second and third actuator means, respectively. 7. The system of claim 6 further comprising: attachment means for selectively attaching said first, second and third digit supports and said palm support to said glove. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said attachment means comprises a first material for selectively mating with a second material, wherein one of said materials comprises a hook-type material and said other type of material comprises a loop-type material for mating with said hook-type material. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said palm support has a generally "L" like shape having a first and a second leg, wherein one of said sphere joints is mounted on said first leg and the remaining two sphere joints are mounted on said second leg of said palm support. 10. The system of claim 9 further comprising: first, second and third mounting means located between said first, second and third digit supports and first, second and third actuator means, respectivley, for providing feedback force that is substantially perpendicular to the tip of said first, second and third digits, respectively. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said first, second and third mounting means, respectively, comprise prism shaped mounting elements. 12. The system of claim 11 further comprising: stop means mounted on said mounting means connectable to the thumb of said glove for limiting the travel of its respective cylindrical joint. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said glove comprises a flexible glove for covering the hand of the user on the inside and including said plurality of sensors mounted on the outside thereof. 