A cable suspension compliance mechanism has a top plate for attaching the mechanism to a robot and a bottom plate for attaching the mechanism to a gripping device. Steel cables interconnect the plates and maintain the plates substantially parallel relative to each other. Pneumatic cylinders are also disposed between the plates to adjust the mechanism's stiffness by adjusting the tension of a selected number of the steel cables. The mechanism is also equipped with magnetic inductance sensors to sense the position and classification of the article to be gripped. Additionally, the mechanism has an overtravel sensor to indicate the presence of unexpected obstacles, and to stop the mechasnism in response thereto.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic end effector for positioning a gripping mechanism which comprises: a top plate for attaching said end effector to a robot; a bottom plate for holding said gripping mechanism; a plurality of cables interconnecting said top plate with said bottom plate for suspending said bottom plate from said top plate; a pair of rigidizers, each rigidizer including an arm, an extendable stiffener and a pair of tensioning cables, said arm having a first end pivotally attached to said top plate and a second end, said extendable stiffener having a first end attached to said bottom plate and having a second end pivotably joined with said second end of said arm, and each of said tensioning cables having a first end attached to said bottom plate and a second end attached to said arm intermediate said first and second ends of said arm; and means for simultaneously moving each of said stiffeners between a retracted position wherein said tensioning cables are slack for freely suspending said bottom plate from said top plate and an extended position wherein said tensioning cables are taut for rigidly holding said bottom plate relative to said top plate. 2. A robotic end effector as recited in claim 1 further comprising position sensing means for sensing the position of said article relative to said gripping device. 3. A robotic end effector as recited in claim 2 further comprising classification means to classify said article. 4. A robotic end effector as recited in claim 1 further comprising stopping means to stop said robot when the distance between said top plate and said bottom plate decreases below a predetermined value. 5. A robotic end effector as recited in claim 3 wherein said position sensing means comprises a plurality of magnetic inductance sensors. 6. A robotic end effector as recited in claim 5 wherein said classification means comprises a plurality of magnetic inductance sensors to sense according to the proximity of said article to said sensors. 7. A cable suspension compliance mechanism for use with an article gripping device which comprises: a first mounting plate for attaching said mechanism to a robot; a second mounting plate disposed substantially parallel to said first mounting plate for attaching said mechanism to said gripping device for gripping said article; a plurality of steel cables interconnecting said first and second mounting plates, said cables being suspended between said first and said second plates, said cables substantially maintaining said parallel disposition of said first plate relative to said second plate; and a plurality of rigidizers disposed between said first and second plates to selectively establish a predetermined stiffness between said first and second plates, each of said rigidizers including an arm, an extendable stiffener and a pair of tensioning cables, said arm having a first end pivotally attached to said first plate and a second end, said extendable stiffener having a first end attached to said second plate and a second end being pivotally joined with said second end of said arm, and each of said tensioning cables having a first end attached to said second plate and a second end attached to said arm intermediate said first and second ends of said arm whereby movement of said stiffeners from a retracted to an extended position moves its respective tensioning cables from a slack to a taut position to provide stiffness. 8. A cable suspension compliance mechanism as recited in claim 7 further comprising a position sensor means mounted on said second mounting plate to sense the position of said article relative to said gripping device and generate a signal in response thereto. 9. A cable suspension compliance mechanism as recited in claim 8, further comprising stopping means to stop said robot when the distance between said first mounting plate and said second mounting plate decreases below a predetermined value. 10. A cable suspension compliance mechanism as recited in claim 9 wherein said position sensing means comprises a plurality of proximity sensors. 11. A cable suspension compliance mechanism as recited in claim 10 further comprising classification means to classify said article. 12. A cable suspension compliance mechanism as recited in claim 11 wherein said classification means comprises a plurality of magnetic inductance sensors to sense according to the proximity of said article to said sensors. 13. A method for gripping a remote article with a robot, comprising the steps of: attaching a first mounting plate to said robot; attaching a second mounting plate to said article; interconnecting said plates by attaching a plurality of cables therebetween; disposing a plurality of stiffening devices between said plates, said stiffening devices each comprising an arm and an extendable stiffener and a pair of tensioning cables, said arm having a first end pivotally attached to said first mounting plate and a second end, said extendable stiffener having a first end attached to said second plate and a second end pivotally joined with said second end of said arm and each of said tensioning cables having a first end attached to said second plate and a second end attached to said arm intermediate said first and second ends of said arm; and employing said stiffening devices to shift said selected tensioning cables between stiff and compliant configurations by extending and retracting said extendable stiffeners. 