A robotic surgical system (10) includes a multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm (14) having a surgical tool (22). The arm is coupled to a controller (24) for controllably positioning the surgical tool within a three dimensional coordinate system. The system further includes a safety monitoring processor (38) for determining the position of the surgical tool in the three dimensional coordinate system relative to a volumetric model. The volumetric model may be represented as a constructive solid geometry (CSG) tree data structure. The system further includes an optical tracking camera system (28, 32) disposed for imaging a region of space that includes at least a portion of the manipulator arm. An output of the camera system is coupled to the processor (38) that processes the volumetric model for determining if the surgical tool is positioned outside of the volumetric model. The system further includes a strain gage (40) for detecting slippage in three dimensions between an immobilized tissue, such as bone, and a reference point (44). The system also includes multiple and redundant safety features for suspending a motion of the surgical tool to prevent the tool from operating outside of the predetermined volume of space.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: multiple degree of freedom of manipulator arm means including a surgical tool, the manipulator arm means being coupled to means for controllably positioning the surgical tool during the operation thereof within a three dimensional coordinate system; means for determining a position of the surgical tool in the three dimensional coordinate system relative to a volumetric model that corresponds at least in part to a volume of tissue to be operated on by the surgical tool, the determining means including redundant means for detecting a position of the surgical tool within the three dimensional coordinate system during the operation of the surgical tool, the detecting means having an output coupled to means for processing the volumetric model for determining the position of the surgical tool relative to the volumetric model, the processing means having an output coupled to a first input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a motion of the surgical tool if the position of the surgical tool is detected to lie outside of the volumetric model; and means for measuring a magnitude of a force applied to the surgical tool during the operation of the surgical tool, the force measuring means having an output coupled to a second input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a motion of the surgical tool if a force greater than a predetermined force is measured. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the volumetric model is located within a surgical patient and wherein the system further comprises means for detecting a motion of the patient relative to the three dimensional coordinate system, the motion detecting means having an output coupled to an input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a motion of the surgical tool if a motion of the patient is detected. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the detecting means is comprised of strain gage means coupled between the surgical patient and a reference point within the three dimensional coordinate system. 4. A system as set forth in claim 3 wherein the system includes means for immobilizing a portion of the patient that includes the volumetric model, and wherein the reference point is located upon the immobilizing means. 5. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the measuring means includes means for resolving at a tip of the surgical tool an applied force and torque. 6. A system as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising means having an input coupled to an output of the position determining means and, responsive to a calibration procedure that positions the surgical tool at at least one predetermined location within the three dimensional coordinate system, for determining a coordinate transformation for locating the volumetric model within the three dimensional coordinate system. 7. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the volumetric model corresponds to a three dimensional shape of a prosthetic implant, the volumetric model additionally corresponding to a surgical tool approach volume relative to the prosthetic implant, and wherein the processing means determines the position of the surgical tool relative to both the three dimensional shape of the prosthetic implant and to the surgical tool approach volume. 8. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the surgical tool is a cylindrical rotatable cutter. 9. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the processing means processes the volumetric model as a constructive solid geometry (CSG) tree data structure representation thereof. 10. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the detecting means is comprised of imaging means disposed for imaging a region of space that includes at least a portion of the manipulator arm means. 11. A system as set forth in claim 10 wherein the volumetric model is represented as a constructive solid geometry (CSG) tree data structure, and wherein the imaging means has an output coupled to the volumetric model processing means, the volumetric model processing means including means, responsive to an image indicating a location of the manipulator arm means, for processing the CSG tree data structure for determining if the surgical tool is positioned within the volumetric model. 12. A system as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising means, coupled to the force measuring means, for determining through a force compliance technique a location of at least one reference point within the three dimensional coordinate system. 13. A system as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising means, responsive to an output of the position determining means, for displaying to an operator of the system a position of the surgical tool relative to the volumetric model, the displaying means including means for superimposing computed tomagraphy (CT) information with corresponding cross-sectional images of the volumetric model. 14. A system as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising means, coupled to the force measuring means, for halting a further motion of the surgical tool if a force exceeding a first threshold is measured and for uncoupling the manipulator arm means from a source of power if a force exceeding a second, threshold is measured. 15. An apparatus for preparing a cavity within a bone to receive a prosthetic implant, comprising: multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm means including a rotating surgical tool, the manipulator arm means being coupled to means for controllably positioning the surgical tool within a three dimensional robot coordinate system; means for immobilizing the bone within the three dimensional robot coordinate system; means for determining a position of the surgical tool in the three dimensional robot coordinate system relative to a volumetric model representative of a cavity to be formed within the bone, the determining means including imaging means disposed for imaging a region of space that includes at least a portion of the manipulator arm means for determining if the surgical tool is positioned outside of the volumetric model, the determining means having an output coupled to a first input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a movement of the surgical tool if the position of the surgical tool is determined to lie outside of the volumetric mode; and means coupled between the bone and the immobilizing means and having an output for indicating an amount of movement, if any, between the bone and the immobilizing means, the indicating means measuring the movement of the bone in three dimensions, the movement indicating means having an output coupled to a second input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a movement of the surgical tool if a movement of the bone is indicated. 16. An apparatus as set forth in claim 15 wherein the volumetric model is represented as a constructive solid geometry (CSG) tree data structure, and wherein the determining means includes means for processing the CSG tree data structure for determining if the surgical tool is positioned outside of the volumetric model and for suspending a further movement of the surgical tool if the surgical tool is determined to be positioned outside of the volumetric model. 17. An apparatus as set forth in claim 15 and further comprising means for measuring a magnitude of a force applied to the surgical tool, the force measuring means having an output coupled to the means for controllably positioning the manipulator arm means for causing the positioning means to suspend a movement of the surgical tool if the force is found to exceed a predetermined magnitude. 18. An apparatus as set forth in claim 15 wherein the movement indicating means is comprised of strain gage means. 19. An apparatus as set forth in claim 15 wherein the bone has a plurality of reference pins affixed thereto for defining points of a bone coordinate system, and wherein the apparatus further comprises means, responsive to an operator manually guiding a tool to at least a first one of the reference pins, for determining a transformation between the bone coordinate system and the three dimensional robot coordinate system, the transformation determining means having an input coupled to an output of the imaging means. 20. An apparatus as set forth in claim 19 wherein the transformation determining means further includes means, responsive to an image indicating a location of the manipulator arm means, for determining a transformation between the three dimensional robot coordinate system and a three dimension coordinate system associated with the imaging means. 21. An apparatus for preparing a cavity within a bone to receive a prosthetic implant, comprising: multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm means controllably conveying a surgical tool so as to remove bone tissue therewith, the manipulator arm means being coupled to means for controllably positioning the surgical tool within a three dimensional robot coordinate system; means for determining a position of the surgical tool in the three dimensional robot coordinate system relative to a volumetric model representative of a three dimensional shape of a cavity to be formed within a bone, the determining means including imaging means disposed for obtaining a three dimensional image of at least a portion of the manipulator arm means for determining if the surgical tool is positioned outside of the volumetric model, the determining means having an output coupled to a first input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a movement of the surgical tool if the position of the surgical tool is determined to lie outside of the volumetric model; and means for measuring a magnitude of a force applied to the surgical tool while removing bone tissue during the preparation of the cavity, the force measuring means having an output coupled to a second input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a motion of the surgical tool if a force greater than a predetermined force is measured. 22. An apparatus as set forth in claim 21 and further comprising: means for immobilizing the bone; and strain gage means coupled between the bone and the immobilizing means and having an output for indicating an amount of movement, if any, between the bone and the immobilizing means, the strain gage means indicating a movement of the bone in three dimensions and having an output coupled to a third input of the positioning means for causing the positioning means to suspend a motion of the surgical tool if a movement of the bone is indicated. 23. An apparatus as set forth in claim 21 wherein the bone has a plurality of reference pins affixed thereto for defining points within a bone coordinate system, and wherein the apparatus further comprises means, responsive to an operator positioning the manipulator arm means so as to contact a point on one of the reference pins, for autonomously repositioning the manipulator arm means for determining, in conjunction with the force measuring means, a center of the reference pin and a normal to the reference pin. 