A rolling joint is provided for obtaining slewing maneuvers for various apparatuses including space structures, space vehicles, robotic manipulators and simulators. Two noncircular cylinders, namely a drive and a driven cylinder, are provided in driving contact with one another. This contact is maintained by two pairs of generally S-shaped bands, each pair forming a generally 8-shaped coupling tightly about the circumferential periphery of the noncircular drive and driven cylinders. A stationarily fixed arm extends between and is rotatably journalled with a drive axle and a spindle axle respectively extending through selected rotational points of the drive cylinder and of the driven cylinder. The noncircular cylinders are profiled to obtain the desired varying gear ratio.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rolling joint comprising: a noncircular, nonelliptical drive cylinder having a drive axle passing through a rotational point of said drive cylinder; a noncircular, nonelliptical driven cylinder having a spindle axle passing through a rotational point of said driven cylinder; a stationarily fixed arm connected end to end between the drive axle and the spindle axle to maintain a constant distance between the respective rotational points of the drive and driven cylinders, the drive axle and spindle axle rotatably journalled to said arm; and means for maintaining contact between the circumferential peripheries of said drive and driven cylinders to permit said driven cylinder to be rolled relative to said drive cylinder, wherein said drive cylinder is profiled such that its pitch radius r.sub.1 is substantially defined as: ##EQU8## where C is the distance between the respective rotational points of said drive cylinder and said driven cylinder, and N.sub.g (.theta..sub.2) is the varying gear ratio between said drive cylinder and said driven cylinder defined as a function of the output angle of rotation .theta..sub.2 of said drive cylinder, and wherein said driven cylinder is profiled such that its pitch radius r.sub.2 is substantially defined as ##EQU9## 2. The rolling joint of claim 1, wherein said means for maintaining contact comprises a pair of generally S-shaped bands, the pair of S-shaped bands being placed one above the other to form a generally 8-shaped coupling tightly about the circumferential periphery of said noncircular drive and driven cylinders. 3. The rolling joint according to claim 2, further comprising two clamps, each clamp clamping a respective end of both S-shaped bands to maintain contact between said noncirular drive cylinder and said noncircular driven cylinder. 4. The rolling joint according to claim 2, wherein said means for maintaining contact further comprises another pair of generally S-shaped bands, the other pair of S-shaped bands being placed one above the other for forming another generally 8-shaped coupling tightly about the circumferential periphery of said noncircular drive and driven cylinders. 5. The rolling joint according to claim 4, further comprising two clamps, each clamp clamping a respective end of each S-shaped band of both pairs of S-shaped bands. 6. The rolling joint according to claim 1, further comprising a drive motor connected to the drive axle for driving said noncircular drive cylinder. 7. The rolling joint according to claim 6, further comprising a step down gear box connected between the motor and the drive axle of said noncircular drive cylinder. 8. A rolling joint comprising: a noncircular drive cylinder having a drive axle passing through a rotational point of said drive cylinder; a noncircular driven cylinder having a spindle axle passing through a rotational point of said driven cylinder; a stationarily fixed arm connected end to end between the drive axle and the spindle axle to maintain a constant distance between the respective rotational points of the noncircular drive and driven cylinders, the drive axle and spindle axle rotatably journalled to said arm; and means for maintaining contact between the circumferential peripheries of said noncircular drive and driven cylinders to permit said noncircular driven cylinder to be rolled relative to said noncircular drive cylinder, comprised of a pair of generally S-shaped bands, the pair of S-shaped bands being placed one above the other to form a generally 8-shaped coupling tightly about the circumferential periphery of said noncircular drive and driven cylinders, wherein said noncircular drive cylinder is profiled such that its pitch radius r.sub.1 is substantially defined as: ##EQU10## where C is the distance between the respective rotational points of said noncircular drive cylinder and said noncircular driven cylinder, and N.sub.g (.theta..sub.2) is the varying gear ratio between said noncircular drive cylinder and said noncircular driven cylinder defined as a function of the output angle of rotation of said noncircular drive cylinder, and wherein said noncircular driven cylinder is profiled such that its pitch radius r.sub.2 is substantially defined as ##EQU11## 9. The rolling joint according to claim 8, further comprising two clamps, each clamp clamping a respective end of both S-shaped bands to maintain contact between said noncircular drive cylinder and said noncircular driven cylinder. 10. The rolling joint according to claim 8, wherein said means for maintaining contact further comprises another pair of generally S-shaped bands, the other pair of S-shaped bands being placed one above the other forming another generally 8-shaped coupling tightly about the circumferential periphery of said noncircular drive and driven cylinders. 11. The rolling joint according to claim 10, further comprising two clamps, each clamp clamping a respective end of each S-shaped band of both pairs of S-shaped bands. 12. The rolling joint according to claim 8, further comprising a drive motor connected to the drive axle for driving said noncircular drive cylinder. 13. The rolling joint according to claim 12, further comprising a step down gear box connected between the motor and the drive axle of said noncircular drive cylinder. 