Actuators of rigid electrically actuatable material provide articulation for robotic limbs. Piezoelectric actuators, for example, may be used in various embodiments of robotic joints to rotate a cylindrical or spherical connection or to translate a rod. Opposing pairs of actuators engage in smooth walking motion and maintain a vise-like grip on the robot limb at all times. The traction surfaces of the actuators contact the robot limb with zero clearance. Unlike the use of conventional bearings, zero clearance and full area contact provide relatively large mechanical stiffness that allows very precise positioning of robot limbs without mechanical oscillations of the extremities. With adequate limb rigidity, slop is essentially eliminated from the joints. The smooth walking motion of the actuators achieves high mechanical efficiency by eliminating sliding friction. The joints operate in air or space vacuum without lubrication and with negligible heating. Relatively large forces and torques are developed at relatively slow speeds. Size of the robotic joints can range from relatively large to microscopic.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic articulation comprising: an articulator housing attached to a robot body, at least two pair of actuators mounted in said housing, each of said actuators comprising a stack of electrically actuable material having a lifter segment, a tangenter segment, and a traction surface for engaging an articulable robot limb having an end extending within said housing, wherein the pairs of actuators alternately act in a vice-like manner to grip and move said limb. 2. The robotic articulation of claim 1 wherein each pair actuators operates in a cycle having the steps of, contacting the limb while moving at the same speed as the limb, in order to eliminate rubbing friction during contact, moving the limb, lifting off the limb while moving at the same speed as the limb to eliminate rubbing friction during contact, retracing to begin another cycle. 3. The robotic articulation of claim 1, wherein said end of said limb comprises a rod having a rectangular cross section, said housing includes a rectangular opening, and said actuators comprise two pairs of opposing actuators mounted in said rectangular opening for engaging said rod. 4. The robotic articulation of claim 1, wherein said end of said limb comprises a cylindrical shaft, said housing includes a cylindrical opening, and said actuators comprise at least two pairs of opposing cylindrical arcs mounted in said cylindrical opening for engaging said cylindrical shaft. 5. The robotic articulation of claim 4, wherein said robot limb further comprises an upper leg and a lower leg connected by a knee joint. 6. The robotic articulation of claim 5, wherein said knee joint comprises a knee housing and a plurality of knee actuators mounted in said knee housing for engaging an end of said lower leg extending within said knee housing. 7. The robotic articulation of claim 2, wherein said end of said limb comprises a rod having a rectangular cross section, said housing includes a rectangular opening, and said actuators comprise two pairs of opposing actuators mounted in said rectangular opening for engaging said rod. 8. The robotic articulation of claim 2, wherein said end of said limb comprises a cylindrical shaft, said housing includes a cylindrical opening, and said actuators comprise at least two pairs of opposing cylindrical arcs mounted in said cylindrical opening for engaging said cylindrical shaft. 9. The robotic articulation of claim 7, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 10. The robotic articulation of claim 3, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 11. The robotic articulation of claim 1, wherein said end of said limb comprises a ball, said housing comprises a spherical cavity and said pairs of actuators are mounted on said spherical cavity and engage said ball. 12. The robotic articulation of claim 1, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 13. The robotic articulation of claim 4, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 14. The robotic articulation of claim 11, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 15. The robotic articulation of claim 2, wherein said end of said limb comprises a ball, said housing comprises a spherical cavity and said pairs of actuators are mounted on said spherical cavity and engage said ball. 16. The robotic articulation of claim 2, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 17. The robotic articulation of claim 8, wherein said robot limb further comprises an upper leg and a lower leg connected by a knee joint. 18. The robotic articulation of claim 17, wherein said knee joint comprises a knee housing and a plurality of knee actuators mounted in said knee housing for engaging an end of said lower leg extending within said knee housing. 19. The robotic articulation of claim 8, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 20. The robotic articulation of claim 15, wherein the electrically actuable material of the actuators is a piezoelectric material. 