A method of mounting an integrated circuit carrier (10) having a plurality of straight leads (12) retained by an integral frame (16) is provided. The plurality of straight leads (12) of the carrier (10) is bent to form a plurality of bent leads (12) still retained by the frame (16). The plurality of bent leads are then scored to form a notch (32) on each bent lead. Solder fluxing, placing, and reflowing the plurality of bent leads of the integrated circuit carrier against corresponding printed lines of the printed circuit (26) surface before each notch follow. Finally, a remainder portion of the plurality of leads from and including the frame (16) to the notch (32) on each lead (12) is removed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of mounting an integrated circuit carrier having a plurality of straight leads retained by an integral frame, comprising the steps of: bending said plurality of straight leads of said carrier to form a plurality of bent leads still retained by said frame; scoring a portion of said plurality of bent leads to form a notch on each bent lead; solder fluxing, placing, and reflowing a portion of said leads, against corresponding printed lines on a printed circuit surface, wherein said portion of said leads is between said integrated circuit carrier and said notch; and removing a remainder portion of said plurality of leads and said frame by severing said leads at said notch. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said solder fluxing, placing, and reflowing step comprises mounting said plurality of bent leads of said integrated circuit carrier against corresponding printed lines on a printed circuit board. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said solder fluxing, placing, and reflowing step comprises mounting said plurality of bent leads of said integrated circuit carrier against corresponding printed lines on a printed circuit substrate. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said scoring step comprises scoring a top portion of said plurality of bent leads to form a notch on each bent lead. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said scoring step comprises scoring a bottom portion of said plurality of bent leads to form a notch on each bent lead. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said scoring step comprises scoring a top and bottom portion of said plurality of bent leads to form a notch on both sides of each bent lead. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said scoring comprises grooving a notch on at least one side of each lead. 8. A method of mounting an integrated circuit carrier having a plurality of straight notched leads retained by an integral frame, comprising the steps of: bending said plurality of straight notched leads of said carrier to form a plurality of bent notched leads still retained by said frame; solder fluxing, placing, and reflowing a portion of said leads against corresponding printed lines on a printed circuit surface, wherein said portion of said leads is between said integrated circuit carrier and said notch; and removing a remainder portion of said plurality of leads and said frame by severing said leads at said notch. 9. A method of mounting an integrated circuit carrier having a plurality of straight leads retained by an integral rectangular frame, comprising the steps of: cutting at least one corner of said rectangular frame to facilitate manipulations of said plurality of straight leads still substantially retained by said cut frame; bending said plurality of straight leads to form a plurality of bent leads still substantially retained by said cut frame; scoring a portion of said plurality of bent leads to form a notch on each lead; solder fluxing, placing, and reflowing a portion of said leads still substantially retained by said cut frame of said integrated circuit carrier, against corresponding printed lines on a printed circuit surface, wherein said portion of said leads is between said integrated circuit carrier and said notch; and removing a remainder portion of said plurality of leads and said frame by severing said leads at said notch. 