A mechanical coupling system wherein a spline screw system is used to connect two bodies, a work attachment mechanism and a work attachment fixture. A kinematic clamp first guides and mates the attachment mechanism to the attachment fixture. The kinematic clamp includes three round roller members equidistantly located around the periphery of the bodies and three correspondingly located V-shaped grooves located on the periphery of the other body. A motor driven spline screw in the attachment mechanism then engages a spline bolt head in the attachment fixture and includes a threaded shank upon which is mounted a translatable nut which is adapted to translate up and down the shank but not rotate. The nut carries one or more electrical connectors which travel upwardly during a connecting sequence and cams open a set of dust covers which operate to engage an opposing set of dust covers adjacent complementary type electrical connectors on the attachment mechanism. A mechanical and electrical interconnection process between the bodies occurs sequentially.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for mechanically and electrically coupling two bodies, comprising: a first body comprising a work attachment mechanism including first type spline connecting means selectively located thereon; a second body comprising a work attachment fixture, second type spline connecting means positioned thereon to mate with said first type spline connecting means; first type alignment mans exteriorally located on said first body for berthing with said second body; second type alignment means exteriorally located on said second body for receiving said first type alignment means; said second type spline connecting means including a threaded bolt member having a captured nut member located thereon which can translate up and down the bolt but is constrained from rotation thereabout; said nut member having a mounting surface; at least one first type electrical connector located on said mounting surface for translating to and from said first body; at least one complementary second type electrical connector on said first body for mating with said at least one first type electrical connector on the mounting surface of said nut member, whereby when said first type spline connecting means mates with said second type connecting means and is driven, both said spline connecting means lock together and said nut member translates up the threaded bolt member carrying said first type electrical connector up to said complementary second type connector for interconnection therewith; and dust cover means located adjacent both said electrical connectors for protecting said connectors, said dust cover means operating to automatically open and shut in response to electrical connector translation. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said first type spline connecting means comprise male type spline means and said second type spline connecting means comprises female type spline means. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said male type spline means comprises a driver element which includes a forwardly biased body member having a splined head for engaging said female type spline means and means located at the rear portion thereof for receiving a rotating member which operates to impart a driving force to the splined head. 4. The system of claim 3 and additionally including a compression spring means contacting said body member for applying a forward biasing force thereto. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said female type spline means includes a generally hollow spline receptor member adjoining said threaded bolt member at one end thereof and having an opening for the passage of said head of said driver element therethrough and further having a splined inside wall surface for engaging said splined head. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said receptor member includes an undercut in the top inside surface thereof for engaging a top portion of said splined head when said spline connecting means lock together. 7. The system of claim 6 and additionally including spring preloading means located between a body portion of said second body and said threaded bolt member. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein preloading means comprises a compression spring located at one end of said threaded bolt member. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the spline receptor member is located at the upper end of said threaded bolt member and said preload compression spring is located at the lower end of said threaded bolt member. 10. The system of claim 5 wherein said nut member includes splines selectively located on a side surface thereof which extend into respective vertical channels formed in a side portion of said second body for preventing rotation of nut member. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein vertical channels have ends defining top and bottom stops of nut member translation. 12. The system of claim 12 wherein said dust cover means comprises pairs of cover elements. 13. The system of claim 13 wherein the pair of cover elements adjacent said first type electrical connector comprises spring biased members having respective cam surfaces for being cammed open by a body portion of said first type connector. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the pair of cover elements adjacent said second type electrical connector comprises spring biased members actuated by the opening of the cover elements adjacent said first type connector. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein said pair of cover elements adjacent said first type electrical connector includes means for opening said pair of cover elements adjacent said second type electrical connector. 16. A system for mechanically and electrically coupling two bodies, comprising: a first body comprising a work attachment mechanism including first type spline connecting means selectively located thereon; a second body comprising a work attachment fixture, second type spline connecting means positioned thereon to mate with said first type spline connecting means; first type alignment mean exteriorally located on said first body for berthing with said second body; second type alignment means exteriorally located on said second body for receiving said first type alignment means; said second type spline connecting means including a threaded bolt member having a captured nut member located thereon which can translate up and down the bolt but is constrained from rotation thereabout; said nut member having a mounting surface; at least one first type electrical connector located on said mounting surface for translating to and from said first body; at least one complementary second type electrical connector on said first body for mating with said at least one first type electrical connector on the mounting surface of said nut member, whereby when said first type spline connecting means mates with said second type connecting means and is driven, both said spline connecting means lock together and said nut member translates up the threaded bolt member carrying said first type electrical connector up to said complementary second type connector for interconnection therewith; and said first type alignment means comprises a set of roller members located at the side of said first body and said second type alignment means comprises a set of members at the side of said second body having complementary seating surfaces for said roller member. 17. The system of claim 16 and additionally including chamfer type surfaces located adjacent said roller members and said complementary seating surfaces. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said seating surfaces comprise mutually diverging inclined seating surfaces. 