Apparatus for direct measurement of torque in an articulated joint includes a driver assembly, and a driven assembly. The driver and driven assembly are mounted on a common shaft allowing angular displacement between the driver and driven assemblies. A resilient driver is provided for rotating the driven assembly relative to the driver assembly and a sensor is provided for directly measuring torque as indicated by the angular displacement of the resilient driver relative to the driven assembly. A second sensor may be provided to measure the angular position of the driven assembly relative to the driver assembly.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for direct measurement of torque in an articulated joint, responsive to the movement of a remote actuator, which comprises: a) a driver assembly having driver hubs extending in spaced relation therefrom, said driver hubs having bores which define an axis of rotation of the articulated joint; b) a common shaft concentric with said axis of rotation and passing through said bores of the driver assembly hubs, said common shaft being secured to said driven assembly and rotatably secured in bearings to the driver assembly; c) a driven assembly having driven hubs extending in spaced relation therefrom; said driven hubs having bores which are concentric with the axis of rotation of the articulated joint and through which the common shaft passes; d) a driver collar which is concentric with the common shaft and responsive to movement of the remote actuator; e) a resilient means for imparting rotary motion from the driver collar to the driven assembly; and f) a first sensor which measures angular displacement of the driver collar relative to the driven assembly to provide a direct measurement of the torque on the articulated joint. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a second sensor measures the angular displacement of the driven assembly relative to the driver assembly for monitoring the relative position of the articulated joint. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the resilient means is integrated into the driver collar, and comprises an inner portion concentric with and secured to the common shaft; a middle resilient portion secured to the inner portion; an outer portion secured to the middle resilient portion, and wherein the outer portion is responsive to movement of the remote actuator. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the middle resilient portion is developed by a reduced cross section middle portion in a drive collar made of a homogeneous resilient material. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the reduced cross section of the middle portion is formed by a plurality of holes disposed in the middle portions of the driver collar. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first sensor is positioned to measure the relative rotational displacement between the driver collar outer portion relative to the driven assembly to provide a direct measurement of the torque in the articulated joint. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the resilient means is concentric with the common shaft and has one end secured to the driver collar and the other end secured to the common shaft, and the driver collar is rotatably secured to the common shaft. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the resilient means is a torsion spring. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the resilient means is concentric with the common shaft and one end of the resilient means is secured to the driver collar and the other end is secured to the driven assembly. 10. An apparatus for direct measurement of the torque is an articulated joint, responsive to movement of a remote actuator, which comprises: a) a driver assembly with driver hubs extending in spaced relation therefrom, said hubs having bores which define an axis of rotation of the articulated joint; b) a common shaft concentric with the axis of rotation and passing through the bores of the driver hubs; c) a driven assembly with driven hubs extending in spaced relation therefrom; said driven hubs having bores which are concentric with the axis of rotation and through which the common shaft passes; d) a resilient driver collar concentric with the common shaft and responsive to movement of the remote actuator, with means for imparting rotary motion to the driven assembly; and e) a first sensor responsive to movement of the driver collar relative to the driven assembly, for monitoring the torque on the articulated joint. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein a second sensor is responsive to movement of the driven assembly relative to the driver assembly for monitoring the relative position of the articulated joint. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the resilient driver collar is an assembly with a resilient component disposed on the common shaft for imparting rotary motion of the driver collar to the driven assembly. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the resilient element is a torsion spring. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the common shaft is secured to the bores of the driven assembly and the common shaft is rotatably secured in bearings mounted in the bores of the driver assembly. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the resilient driver collar comprises an inner portion concentric with and secured to the common shaft; a middle resilient portion secured to the inner portion; an outer portion secured to the middle resilient portion, and wherein the outer portion is responsive to movement of the remote actuator. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the resilient driver collar comprises an inner portion concentric with and secured to the common shaft; a reduced cross section middle portion; and an outer portion secured to the middle portion, and wherein the outer portion is responsive to movement of the remote actuator. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the reduced cross section of the middle portion is formed by a plurality of holes disposed in the middle portion of the driver collar. 