The present invention relates to an arrangement for bringing the tool-carrying end (2) of a robot beam (4) to one desired position of a plurality of possible, predetermined positions, and a workpiece-supporting table-assembly for use with a robot beam steered by the arrangement. The beam-positioning arrangement comprises two beam-holding devices (5, 6) which are intended to support the beam (4) at given mutually-space locations along its length and which are journalled to the beam at the aforementioned locations. At least one of the beam-holding devices (6) is slideably mounted for movement along a first elongated beam-positioning arm (10) and one end of the first arm is pivotally connected to a stand (12) which is moveable along a fixed path. The arrangement is such that pivotal movement of the first arm (10) and movement of the at least one holding-device (6) along its arm will result in a commensurate change in the positional setting of the tool-carrying end of the beam.
Claims I claim: 1. An arrangement for bringing the tool-carrying end of a robot beam (4) to one desired position of a plurality of possible, predetermined positions, characterized in that the arrangement comprises two beam-holding devices (5, 6) which are intended to support the beam (4) at given mutually-space locations along its length and which are journalled (5, 6) to said beam at said locations, at least one of said beam-holding devices (6) being slideably mounted for movement along a first elongated beam-positioning arm (10); and in that one end (11) of said first arm (10) is pivotally connected to a stand (12) which is moveable along a fixed path, the arrangement being such that a pivotal movement of said first arm (10) and a movement of said at least one holding-device (6) along said arm (10) will result in a commensurate change in the positional setting of the tool-carrying end of said beam. 2. An arrangement according to claim 1, characterized in that the second beam-holding device (5) is also slideably mounted for movement along a second arm (8); and in that said second arm (8) is also pivotally mounted (9) to said stand (12). 3. An arrangement according to claim 2, characterized by a motor (16) which is mounted on one end of the beam (4) or beam-structure, and by a tool-holder or the like mounted on the other end of said beam, and by a splined shaft which extends through said beam such as to enable torque generated by the motor to be transmitted to said tool-holder. 4. An arrangement according to claim 2, characterized in that respective arms have a framework configuration; and in that respective holding devices comprise slides mounted on two mutually parallel arm-parts. 5. An arrangement according to claim 1, in which the robot-beam steered by said arrangement comprises at least two mutually-telescopic beam-sections, characterized in that said beam sections are interconnected by means (13) which will enable one section to rotate relative to the other about a longitudinal axis common to said at least two sections. 6. An arrangement according to claim 5, characterized in that the first and second beam-holding devices (5, 6) are intended to be mounted on a first (4) of said beam-sections. 7. An arrangement according to claim 6, characterized by a linearly-acting positioning device, such as a hydraulic piston-cylinder device, which functions to move the second beam-section into and out of the first beam-section. 8. An arrangement according to claim 6, characterized by a flange which is intended to be fitted to that end of the first beam-section located adjacent the second beam-section and which has provided therein a hole which corresponds to the cross-sectional shape of said adjacent end of the second beam-section, wherein the defining surfaces of said hole have mounted thereon guide=rollers for rotationally rigid-coaction with the second beam-section; and in that said flange coacts with a rotatable toothed ring. 9. An arrangement according to claim 6, characterized by linearly acting positioning devices, for example hydraulic piston-cylinder devices, for moving said first and second holding devices (5, 6) along their respective arms (8, 10). 10. An arrangement according to claim 9, characterized by a flange which is intended to be fitted to that end of the first beam-section located adjacent the second beam-section and which has provided therein a hole which corresponds to the cross-sectional shape of said adjacent end of the second beam-section, wherein the defining surfaces of said hole have mounted thereon guide-rollers for rotationally rigid-coaction with the second beam-section; and in that said flange coacts with a rotable toothed ring. 11. An arrangement according to claim 9, characterized by a linearly-acting positioning device, such as a hydraulic piston-cylinder device, which functions to move the second beam-section into and out of the first beam-section. 12. An arrangement according to claim 9, characterized by a further linearly acting positioning device (32), such as a hydraulic piston-cylinder device, which is mounted between one end of the second arm (10) and the first holding device (5), or is attached at one end adjacent said first holding device. 13. An arrangement according to claim 12, characterized in that the first and second holding devices (5, 6) are each rotatably journalled to the beam, or to one beam-section, and in that each said holding device comprises a slide intended for movement along slide-surfaces on a respective arm. 14. An arrangement according to claim 12, characterized by a flange which is intended to be fitted to that end of the first beam-section located adjacent the second beam-section and which has provided therein a hole which corresponds to the cross-sectional shape of said adjacent end of the second beam-section, wherein the defining surfaces of said hole have mounted thereon guide-rollers for rotationally rigid-coaction with the second beam-section; and in that said flange coacts with a rotatable toothed ring. 15. An arrangement according to claim 5, characterized by a flange which is intended to be fitted to that end of the first beam-section located adjacent the second beam-section and which has provided therein a hole which corresponds to the cross-sectional shape of said adjacent end of the second beam-section, wherein the defining surfaces of said hole have mounted thereon guide-rollers for rotationally rigid-coaction with the second beam-section; and in that said flange coacts with a rotatable toothed ring. 16. An arrangement according to claim 5, characterized by a linearly-acting positioning device, such as a hydraulic piston-cylinder device, which functions to move the second beam-section into and out of the first beam-section 17. An arrangement according to claim 5, characterized by a motor (16) which is mounted on one end of the beam (4) or beam-structure, and by a tool-holder or the like mounted on the other end of said beam, and by a splined shaft which extends through said beam such as to enable torque generated by the motor to be transmitted to said tool-holder. 18. An arrangement according to claim 5, characterized in that respective arms have a framework configuration; and in that respective holding devices comprise slides mounted on two mutually parallel arm-parts. 19. An arrangement according to claim 1, characterized by a motor (16) which is mounted on one end of the beam (4) or beam-structure, and by a tool-holder or the like mounted on the other end of said beam, and by a splined shaft which extends through said beam such as to enable torque generated by the motor to be transmitted to said tool-holder. 20. An arrangement according to claim 1, characterized in that respective arms have a framework configuration; and in that respective holding devices comprise slides mounted on two mutually parallel arm-parts. 