An open topped carrier (2) has a space (6) dimensioned to receive a plurality of coiled wire segments (100) hung on hangers (26) carried by upper portions of dividers (22). The dividers (22) are held in vertical, horizontally spaced use positions by slots (12) formed on the inner wall surfaces of the carrier (2). Each divider (22) may be independently grasped and slid into an elevated use position to facilitate hanging the coiled segment (100) on the hanger (26). A clamping device (32) extends along each of opposite side portions of an upper flange (14) of the carrier (2). The ends (102) of each segment (100) are clamped in an accessible transport position by the clamping device (32). The carrier (2) may have portions to facilitate handling of the segment ends (102) by an operator and/or an indicator bar (58) with a plurality of lights (62) aligned with the segment ends (102) for a human operator. The coiled configuration permits a segment end (102) to be released from the clamp (32) and pulled away from the carrier (2) for processing without moving the segment (100) or the divider (22) on which it is hung away from their lower transport positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A carrier for transporting a plurality of wire segments, each of which has opposite ends, and for positioning each said end of each said segment to be located and grasped by an operator, said carrier comprising: a body defining a wire segment receiving space and having an upper opening communicating with said space; a plurality of laterally extending, substantially vertical dividers positioned in said segment receiving space; each said divider having a hanger secured to an upper portion thereof, said dividers being spaced horizontally from each other to allow a coiled wire segment to be hung on each said hanger and to extend downwardly and laterally outwardly therefrom; and first and second clamp devices carried by said body adjacent to opposite lateral edges of said opening; each of said devices including a plurality of releasable clamps positioned to receive one end of each wire segment hanging on said hangers, to position said end for location and grasping by an operator. 2. The carrier of claim 1, comprising robot engaging portions carried by said body and indexed relative to said clamp devices to enable a robot to accurately locate each end of each said segment. 3. The carrier of claim 2, in which said robot engaging portions comprise a locator member secured to said body and having a hole formed therein for receiving a portion of a robot. 4. The carrier of claim 1, in which each divider is independently slidable between a use position in which said hanger is at least substantially below said opening, and a loading position in which said hanger is above said opening to facilitate positioning a coiled wire segment thereon. 5. The carrier of claim 4, in which said body has substantially vertical sidewalls that have a plurality of substantially vertical slots formed thereon; said slots being arranged to receive opposite edge portions of said dividers to maintain said dividers horizontally spaced from each other and to guide movement of each said divider between said use position and said loading position. 6. The carrier of claim 1, which further comprises a computer memory module carried by said body to identify wire segments mounted on said hangers. 7. The carrier of claim 2, which further comprises a computer memory module carried by said body to identify wire segments mounted on said hangers. 8. The carrier of claim 1, further comprising an indicator bar removably mountable on said body adjacent to one of said clamp devices; said indicator bar having a plurality of separately illuminable lights corresponding to and alignable with said clamps of said device. 9. The carrier of claim 6, further comprising an indicator bar removably mountable on said body adjacent to one of said clamp devices; said indicator bar having a plurality of separately illuminable lights corresponding to and alignable with said clamps of said device. 10. The carrier of claim 1, in which each of said clamp devices comprises an elongated clamp strip, and said clamps are formed by a plurality of longitudinally spaced lateral slits in said strip; said strip having a hole extending laterally therethrough between each pair of adjacent slits; and said strip having sufficient resiliency and compressibility, and said holes being sized, to allow deformation of said holes to localize the effect of insertion of a wire into one of said slits and prevent, said insertion from affecting clamping of wires in adjacent slits. 11. A clamp for a plurality of wires, comprising an elongated clamp strip; said strip having opposite elongated lateral surfaces, an outer surface extending between said lateral surfaces, and a plurality of longitudinally spaced lateral slits for receiving an clamping wires; each said slit extending between and through said lateral surfaces and opening onto said outer surface; and said strip having a hole extending laterally therethrough between each pair of adjacent slits; each said hole opening onto said lateral surfaces and being spaced from and closed to communication with said outer surface; and said strip having sufficient resiliency and compressibility, and said holes being sized, to allow deformation of said holes to localize the effect of insertion of a wire into said one of said slits and prevent said insertion from affecting clamping of wires in adjacent slits. 12. The clamp of claim 11, in which each said slit has an enlarged width portion located inward of said outer surface for receiving a wire inserted into said slit, and a pair of narrow width portions located outward and inward of said enlarged width portion, respectively. 