An inspection system for irregular objects such as solder joints wherein the system utilizes first and second sensors adapted to be pivotable about a common pivot axis and such that the projection axes of the sensors and the pivot axes are able to intersect at a common.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for inspecting objects comprising: first sensor means for projecting electromagnetic radiation along a first projection axis and viewing reflected radiation along a first viewing axis; second sensor means for projecting electromagnetic radiation along a second projection axis and viewing reflected radiation along a second viewing axis; said first and second sensor means being adapted to be independently pivotable about a first common pivot axis and being further adapted such that said first and second projection axes and said first and second viewing axes intersect said first common pivot axis at substantially a common point. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising: a support means having a support surface for supporting said object; and means for effecting relative translation in a least one direction between said support surface and both said first and second sensor means. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein: said means for effecting relative translation effects same in three mutually orthogonal directions. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3 wherein: said means for effecting includes: means for commonly translating said first and second sensor means along a first direction; and means for translating said support surface in second and third directions orthogonal to said first direction. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4 wherein: said first direction is vertical and said second and third directions are each horizontal. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein: said first and second sensor means are commonly pivotable about a second common pivot axis orthogonal to said first common pivot axis. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 further comprising: means responsive to said first and second sensor means and to said means for effecting relative translation for controlling same and for developing data as to the 3-D location of points on the surface of said object. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 further comprising: camera means for viewing said object on said support surface. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 8 wherein: said camera means includes means for zooming in on areas of said object surface. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein: each said first and second sensor means comprises: a sensor; and a support plate to which said sensor is affixed; and said first and second sensor means together comprise: a common hinge means having first, and second hinge arms which pivot about said first common pivot axis and to which are affixed the support plates of said first and second sensors, respectively; said hinge means being supported by said support means above said support surface. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 10 wherein: said hinge means is supported on said support means to be translatable relative to said support surface. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein: said hinge means is further supported on said support means to also be pivotable about a second common pivot axis. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12 wherein: said support means comprises actuator means for controlling and adjusting the pivoting of said first and second arms and of said hinge means. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein: said support means comprises: first and second rails to which is mounted said support surface so as to be translatable in a first direction; and third and fourth rails to which are mounted said first and second rails so as to be translatable in a second direction orthogonal to said first direction. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein: said support means further comprises: air bearings for translatable mounting said first and second rails to said third and fourth rails. 16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein: said means for effecting relative translation includes linear adjusting means for linearly controlling said translation. 17. A method for use in inspecting objects comprising: projecting electromagnetic radiation along a first projection axis and viewing reflected radiation along a first viewing axis with a first sensor means; projecting electromagnetic radiation along a second projection axis and viewing reflected radiation along a second viewing axis with a second sensor means; independently pivoting said first and second sensor means about a first common pivot axis; and said first and second projection axes and said first and second viewing axes intersecting with said first common pivot axis at substantially a common point. 18. A method in accordance with claim 17 further comprising: supporting said object on a support means having a support surface; and effecting relative translation in a least one direction between said support surface and both said first and second sensor means. 19. A method in accordance with claim 18 wherein: said relative translation is effected in three mutually orthogonal directions. 20. A method in accordance with claim 19 wherein: said step of effecting relative translation includes: commonly translating said first and second sensor means along a first direction; and translating said support surface in second and third directions orthogonal to said first direction. 21. A method in accordance with claim 20 wherein: said first direction is vertical and said second and third directions are each horizontal. 22. A method in accordance with claim 18 further comprising: commonly pivoting said first and second sensor means about a second common pivot axis orthogonal to said first common pivot axis. 23. A method in accordance with claim 18 further comprising: developing data from said first and second sensors as to the 3-D location of points on the surface of said object. 24. A method in accordance with claim 18 further comprising: viewing said object on said support surface. 25. A method in accordance with claim 24 wherein: said viewing step includes zooming in on areas of said object surface. 26. A method in accordance with claim 18 wherein: said step of independently pivoting said sensors comprises: pivoting first and second hinge arms of a pivot means to which are affixed support plates supporting said first and second sensors, respectively; said hinge means being supported above said support surface. 27. A method in accordance with claim 26 wherein: said step of effecting relative translation includes: translatable said hinge means relative to said support surface. 28. A method in accordance with claim 27 further comprising: pivoting said hinge means about a second common pivot axis. 29. A method in accordance with claim 28 further comprising: controlling and adjusting the pivoting of said first and second arms of said hinge means. 30. A method in accordance with claim 27 wherein: said step of effecting relative translation includes: translating said support surface in a first direction on said first and second rails; and translating said first and second rails in a second direction orthogonal to said first direction on third and fourth rails. 