A system for representing and recognizing data in machine readable graphic image form in which data to be encoded is entered into the system and a processor encodes the data into a two-dimensional pattern of graphic indicia and generates transfer drive signals representative of the indicia. A transferring device such as a printer transfers an image of the two-dimensional pattern of graphic indicia onto a carrier such as a card or paper document in responsde to the transfer drive signals. A recognition device converts the image on the carrier into electrical signals representative of the graphic indicia and decodes the signals into output signals representative of the data for further processing or use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for representing and recognizing data on a record carrier in the form of a machine readable two-dimensional bar code structure comprising: (a) encoding means including: (i) means for entering data in said encoding means; (ii) processing means for encoding said data into a two-dimensional bar code structure, said bar code structure including a plurality of ordered, adjacent rows of codewords of bar-coded information, each of said codewords representing at least one information-bearing character, and for generating first transfer drive signals; (iii) means for transferring an image of the two-dimensional bar code structure onto a portable record carrier in response to said first transfer drive signals; and (b) recognition means including: (i) means for scanning the image of the two-dimensional bar code structure and for converting the codewords into electrical signals representative of the information-bearing characters; and (ii) means for decoding the electrical signals into output signals representative of said data. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said recognition means includes an output device for displaying said data in human readable form. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said output device is a liquid crystal display. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein said output device is a CRT display. 5. The system of claim 2 wherein said output device is a printer. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said recognition means includes means for transmitting the decoder output signals to a computer. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said transmitting means includes a modem. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said recognition means includes means for transmitting the decoder output signals to a microprocessor. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the microprocessor controls the operation of one of a facsimile machine, a VCR, a microwave oven, a robot and a weight/price label scale, in response to said decoder output signals. 10. The system of claim 11 wherein said entering means includes a keyboard for entering said data. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein said entering means includes means for scanning data from a sheet. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said processing means includes means for generating second transfer drive signals in response to a second set of data, and wherein said transferring means includes reading means for transferring onto said carrier means both the image of the two-dimensional bar code structure in response to the first transfer drive signals and said second set of data in human readable form in response to said second transfer drive signals. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein the transferring means is a printer. 14. The system of claim 12 wherein said portable record carrier is a single carrier, and wherein said reading means includes signal means for transferring the two-dimensional bar code structure and the second set of data in human readable form onto the portable carrier. 15. A method for representing and recognizing data on a record carrier in the form of a machine readable two-dimensional bar code structure comprising the steps of: (i) entering said data into an encoding station; (ii) encoding said data into a two-dimensional bar code structure, said bar code structure including a plurality of ordered, adjacent rows of codewords of bar-coded information, each of said codewords representing at least one information-bearing character; (iii) transferring an image of the two-dimensional bar code structure onto a portable record carrier; (iv) scanning the image of the two-dimensional bar code structure in a separate decoding station and converting the codewords into electrical signals representative of the information-bearing characters; and (v) decoding the electrical signals into output signals representing said data. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said entering step includes the substep of entering said data on a keyboard. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said entering step includes the substep of scanning said data from a sheet. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein said transferring step includes the substep of printing the image onto the carrier. 19. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of displaying the data in human readable form. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said displaying step includes the substep of displaying the data on a CRT display. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said displaying step includes the substep of displaying the data on a liquid crystal display. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein said displaying step includes the substep of printing the data on a printer. 23. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of transmitting the output signals to a computer. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said transmitting step includes the substep of transmitting the output signals to the computer by a modem. 25. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of transmitting the output signals to a microprocessor. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising the step of controlling the operation of one of a facsimile machine, a VCR, a microwave oven, a robot and a weight/price label scale, in response to the output signals. 27. The method of claim 15 further comprising the steps of entering a second set of data into the encoding station; and transferring onto the portable record carrier both the image of the two-dimensional bar code structure and said second set of data in human readable form. 