An orbital debris processor includes a square shaped central lens connected to four square shaped satellite lenses. All of the lenses have substantially the same focal length. The lenses are disposed to cause columnated light, parallel to respective axes thereof, to be focussed a substantially a single point. When the debris procesor is oriented to cause solar radiation to be parallel to the axis of the central lens, reflectors reflect solar radiation to the satellite lenses parallel to respective axes thereof. When a metal object is positioned at the point, it is locally melted and this enables a cut to be made. These cut pieces can be used by the processor or stored in a bin.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for retrieving a targeted object in space, for cutting it by localized melting, and for disposing of the resulting parts, comprising, in combination: a rocket engine, including a plurality of propellant tanks, for maneuvering said apparatus in space; a container, connected to said rocket engine, for providing storage for said resulting parts produced by localized melting; a central lens and a plurality of satellite lenses and corresponding reflectors, connected to said container, that focus collimated light incident upon said lenses and reflectors in directions parallel to the respective optical axes of said lenses, substantially to a common focal point; a robot arm, connected to said container, operable to grasp and move said targeted object to said common focal point and to locations that do not occlude said lenses; a plurality of reaction wheels acting on said container to alter the orientation of said apparatus so as to cause the optical axis of said central lens to be parallel to solar radiation; means for providing a remote view of said targeted object; a remotely controlled robotic control system for operating said robot arm; and a multiplicity of solar panels to provide a source of power for electrically powered elements in said apparatus. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said central lens and said plurality of satellite lenses include similar, square-shaped, Fresnel lenses having substantially the same focal length, and wherein the lens angle between said central lens and each of the lenses in aid multiplicity of satellite lenses is in accordance with a relationship given as: where b is said lens angle; F1 is said focal length; and w is the length of a side of said central lens. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said reflectors consists of a planar reflector. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein each of said reflectors is made from gold. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for providing a remote view of said targeted object consists of an ultraviolet camera mounted on said apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an infrared camera mounted on said apparatus capable of identifying radiation emitted from said targeted object. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said means for providing a remote view of said targeted object consists of an ultraviolet camera mounted on said apparatus. 