An automated facility for the large-scale production of superconducting magnets for use in a particle accelerator. Components of the automated facility include: a superconducting coil winding machine; a coil form and cure press apparatus; a coil collaring press; collar pack assembly apparatus; yoke half stacking apparatus; a cold mass assembly station; and a final assembly station. The facility can produce, on an economical manufacturing basis, magnets made of superconducting material for use in the ring of the particle accelerator. Each of the components is under the control of a programmable controller for operation having repeatable accuracy. All of the elements which are combined to form the superconducting magnet are thus manufactured with the dimensional precision required to produce a known, uniform magnetic field within the accelerator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for winding a coil of superconducting material, the apparatus comprising: a winding mandrel; an adjustable support for receiving a spool of superconducting wire, the spool having a vertical axis; means for translating the spool of superconducting wire in a generally oval path around the winding mandrel so that the wire is de-reeled from the spool, in order to wind the superconducting wire onto the mandrel such that a coil of superconducting wire is formed; means for guiding the superconducting wire from the spool so as to deliver the wire to the winding mandrel on a plane perpendicular to the vertical axis of the spool; means for rotating the winding mandrel along its longitudinal axis; and means for clamping the superconducting wire against the winding mandrel as the wire is wound thereon. 2. The apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising means for imparting a tensioning force on the superconducting wire as it is guided from the spool. 3. The apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said tensioning means comprises: a hysteresis brake operably connected with the spool; and a potentiometer follow arm adjacent the spool and operably associated with the hysteresis brake so as to control rotation of the spool as the superconducting wire is de-reeled therefrom. 4. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for guiding the superconducting wire comprises: sensing means for detecting the superconducting wire as it is de-reeled from the spool; at least one idler pulley for receiving the superconducting wire from the spool; a fleet angle adjustment pulley for aligning the superconducting wire with respect to the winding mandrel; a pivotable guide roller for receiving the superconducting wire from the fleet angle adjustment pulley; and vertical adjusting means for raising and lowering the spool, said vertical adjusting means operably connected with said sensing means such that the spool is raised or lowered according to the signal received therefrom, so as to deliver the superconducting wire to the winding mandrel on a plane perpendicular to the vertical axis of the winding mandrel. 5. The apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a programmable controller operably associated with the apparatus for controlling the operation thereof. 6. Apparatus for manufacturing a coil of superconducting material, the apparatus comprising: a horizontally disposed winding mandrel; an adjustable support for receiving a spool of superconducting material, the spool having a vertical axis; means for translating the spool of superconducting material in a generally oval path around the winding mandrel so that the superconducting material is de-reeled from the spool, in order to wind a predetermined amount of superconducting material onto the mandrel, such that a coil of superconducting material is formed; means for guiding the superconducting material from the spool so as to deliver the superconducting material to the winding mandrel on a plane perpendicular to the vertical axis of the spool and parallel with a winding plane on the winding mandrel; means for imparting a tensioning force on the superconducting material as it is guided from the spool; means for rotating the winding mandrel about the horizontal axis thereof; means for clamping the superconducting material against the winding mandrel as the wire is wound thereon; means for securing the coil to the winding mandrel for lifting mandrel with the coil thereon; and means for curing the coil of superconducting material whereby a finished coil of superconducting material is formed. 7. The apparatus as in claim 6, wherein the superconducting material comprises a wire having superconducting properties, which has wrapped thereon tape having a curable resin impregnated therein. 8. A coil winding machine comprising: a winding mandrel; an adjustable support for receiving a spool of wire, the spool having a vertical axis; means for translating the spool of wire in a generally oval path around the winding mandrel so that the wire is de-reeled from the spool, in order to wind the wire onto the mandrel such that a coil of wire is formed; means for guiding the wire from the spool so as to deliver the wire to the winding mandrel on a plane perpendicular to the vertical axis of the spool; means for rotating the winding mandrel along its longitudinal axis; means for clamping the wire against the winding mandrel as the wire is wound thereon; and a programmable controller operably associated with the machine for controlling the operation thereof. 9. The coil winding machine as recited in claim 8, further comprising means for imparting a tensioning force on the wire as it is guided from the spool, said tensioning means including a hysteresis brake operably connected with the spool, and a potentiometer follow arm adjacent the spool and operably associated with the hysteresis brake so as to control rotation of the spool as the wire is de-reeled therefrom. 10. The coil winding machine as recited in claim 9, wherein said means for guiding the wire comprises: sensing means for detecting the wire as it is de-reeled from the spool; at least one idler pulley for receiving the wire from the spool; a fleet angle adjustment pulley for aligning the wire with respect to the winding mandrel; a pivotable guide roller for receiving the wire from the fleet angle adjustment pulley; and vertical adjusting means for raising and lowering the spool, said vertical adjusting means operably connected with said sensing means such that the spool is raised or lowered according to the signal received therefrom, so as to deliver the wire to the winding mandrel on a plane perpendicular to the vertical axis of the winding mandrel. 