A multi-axis, remote control, mobile, robotic machining center of Cartesian structure having three mutually perpendicular X, Y and Z linear movement axes in which an elongated horizontal ram, adapted to carry various working tools at one outer end thereof, is rigidly supported on a vertical pedestal for movement along the vertical Y axis and linear Z-axis. The ram also is mounted for rotational movement about a horizontal A axis normal to the Y axis and is thereby capable of being selectively positioned in either of two horizontal operating attitudes in which the working tools are operably disposed on opposite sides of the pedestal.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. In a mobile, remotely controlled, automatic machining center or industrial robot for positioning tools relative to fixture held work pieces, the combination comprising: a base mounted for movement along a horizontal X-axis; a single vertical column supported on said base and definitive of a vertical Y-axis; an elongated ram slidably supported on said column for linear movements both along and transversely of said column's vertical Y-axis, and means rotatably mounting said ram on said column for substantially 180.degree. rotation in a vertical plane about a horizontal A-axis. 2. The combination of claim 1, wherein said A-axis is intersectingly normal to said Y-axis and parallel to said X-axis, and said ram is mounted for said linear movements adjacent one vertical side of said column. 3. The combination of claim 1, wherein said means rotatably mounting said ram comprises a Y-axis saddle mounted on said column for linear movement parallel to said Y-axis, and a rotatable saddle coupled to said Y-axis saddle for linear movements therewith and for rotation relative thereto about said A-axis. 4. The combination of claim 3, and powered actuating means for rotatably driving said rotatable saddle about said A-axis. 5. The combination of claim 3, and power actuated brake means for selectively locking said rotatable saddle at either of two diametrically opposite selected positions of rotation. 6. The combination of claim 3, and means slidably interjoining said ram and said rotatable saddle whereby to afford movement of said ram relative to said rotatable saddle and Y-axis along a linear Z-axis. 7. The combination of claim 5, wherein said selected positions are determinative of two horizontal operating positions for said ram. 8. The combination of claim 7, and stop means on said Y-axis saddle, engageable by said rotatable saddle for preventing movement of the latter beyond said two operating positions. 9. The combination of claim 6, and power actuated means for moving said ram along said Z-axis. 10. The combination of claim 9, wherein said power actuated means comprises a rotatable ball screw supported on said ram, and a ball nut fixed to said rotatable saddle and threadingly engaged with said screw. 11. The combination of claim 4, wherein said actuating means comprises a motor driven pinion gear, a large ring gear drivingly engaged with and driven by said pinion gear, ring means connecting said ring gear with said rotatable saddle, and single bearing means coupled to said Y-axis saddle and said ring means for rotatably supporting the latter and said ring gear. 12. The combination of claim 11, and means within the interior of said Y-axis saddle for supporting said for actuating means, pinion gear, ring gear, ring means and bearing means. 13. The combination of claim 1, wherein said ram is adapted to carry work engaging tools at one outer end thereof, and means for rotatably moving said ram to and between horizontal position limits whereby tools carried at said outer end thereof may be positioned on opposite sides of said column, and means for locking said ram in each of said horizontal position limits. 14. A mobile remotely controlled, automatic machining center or industrial robot for spatially moving and positioning tools relative to fixture held work pieces, comprising: a base mounted for movement along a horizontal axis; a rigid vertical column undersupported by said base and definitive of a vertical Y-axis; a Y-axis saddle slidably connected to said column for linear Y-axis movements; a rotatable saddle rotatably mounted on said Y-axis saddle for rotation about a horizontal A-axis parallel to said X-axis; and an elongated ram for operably carrying work engaging tools at one end thereof slidably mounted on said rotatable saddle for movement along a linear Z-axis; said ram being horizontally moveable transversely of said column's Y-axis, and rotatable about said A-axis between diametrically opposed horizontal operating positions thereby to locate said tools in working relation with work pieces located on opposite sides of said column. 