A motorized mobile robot carries a person and is articulated and controlled by joysticks and foot pedals or by remote control to simulate the sport of boxing by effecting punches and blocks upon a like robot. Fluid motor driven wheels propel the robot in forward, rearward, lateral, turning, and spinning movements. An upper frame above the wheel base defines an enclosure having a generally humanoid configuration including a torso with an interior seat for supporting a person within the enclosure in a sitting position. A pair of independently movable arm assemblies connected at each side of the torso are driven by fluid actuators and each has a shoulder portion pivotally movable relative to the torso, an upper arm portion pivotally movable relative to the shoulder portion, and a forearm portion pivotally movable relative to the upper arm portion with a padded boxing glove at the outer end. A head member is movably mounted on the torso and a scoreboard on the torso indicates the number of times the head has been pivoted rearwardly by blows delivered by an opponent to determine the winner of a boxing match. A proximity control allows arm movement only when one robot is in a predetermined position relative to a like robot.
Claims I claim: 1. A motorized mobile robot adapted to carry a person and articulated to simulate the sport of boxing by effecting punches and blocks upon a like robot, comprising; a base having wheels for supporting the robot on a flat surface, propulsion means and directional control means operatively connected to said wheels for propelling and controlling the direction of movement of said robot in forward, rearward, lateral, turning, and spinning movements, an upper frame connected to said base and defining an enclosure having a generally humanoid configuration including a torso portion with internal support means for supporting a person within the enclosure in a sitting position and constructed to protect the person's body and provide visibility and ventilation and having a head portion above said torso portion, and having a shoulder region disposed generally adjacent said head portion wheel control means operatively connected to said propulsion means and said directional control means to control their operation, a pair of independently movable arm assemblies each having a shoulder portion pivotally connected, one at each side, to the shoulder region of said torso portion, an upper arm portion having an upper end pivotally connected to said shoulder portion, a forearm portion pivotally connected to a lower end of said upper arm portion, and drive means for pivoting said shoulder portions relative to said torso portion, for pivoting said upper arm portions relative to said shoulder portions, and for pivoting said forearm portions relative to said upper arm portions, arm control means operatively connected to said arm assembly drive means for controlling the pivotal movement of said arm assemblies to simulate punching and blocking movements. 2. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 1 including a cushioned pad at an outer end of each said arm assembly forearm portion configured to resemble a boxing glove for cushioning the punches delivered by said robot to a like robot. 3. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 1 including a cushioned bumper surrounding said base to cushion the impact upon one said robot colliding with a like robot. 4. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 1 in which said head portion is pivotally mounted on said torso portion such that it will pivot from an upright position to a rearward position upon a sufficient punch delivered to said robot. 5. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 4 including counter means and indicator means on said upper frame and operatively connected with said head portion for totaling and indicating the number of times said head portion has been pivoted to the rearward position. 6. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 1 including proximity sensing means on said upper frame operatively connected with said arm control means to allow operation of said arm assemblies only when one said robot is in a predetermined position relative to a like robot. 7. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 1 including timing means operatively connected with said arm control means for controlling the movement of said arm assembly drive means to control the length of time for an arm assembly movement cycle. 8. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 1 in which said wheels comprise a pair of wheel assemblies movably mounted in said base in laterally opposed relation and each independently controlled by said propulsion means and said directional control means to rotate each said wheel assembly about a vertical axis and each said wheel about its horizontal axis. 9. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 8 in which said propulsion means comprises first motor means operatively connected to each said wheel to rotate each said wheel about its horizontal axis, and said directional control means comprises second motor means operatively connected to each said wheel assembly for rotating each said wheel assembly about a vertical axis. 10. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 9 in which said wheel control means comprises a pair of joysticks within said enclosure each connected to said first motor means for controlling the direction of rotation of each said wheel about its horizontal axis, and foot pedal means operatively connected to both said second motor means for simultaneously controlling the direction of rotation of both said wheel assemblies about a vertical axis. 11. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 10 including; a source of fluid under pressure carried in said frame, said first motor means comprises a first fluid motor connected to said fluid under pressure, a control valve operatively connected to said joysticks and to said first fluid motor to control the operation of said first fluid motor upon manipulating said joysticks, and said second motor means comprising a second fluid actuator connected to each said fluid under pressure, and said foot pedal means is operatively connected to both said second fluid actuators to control their operation. 12. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 9 in which said wheel control means comprises a radio frequency receiver within said enclosure operatively connected to said first motor means for controlling the direction of rotation of each said wheel about its horizontal axis and to both said second motor means for simultaneously controlling the direction of rotation of both said wheel assemblies about a vertical axis, and a remote radio frequency transmitter for transmitting radio frequency control signals to said receiver for controlling the operation of said first and said second motor means from a remote location. 13. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 1 in which each said arm assembly drive means comprises; a first motor means operatively connected to said upper arm portion to pivot it relative to said torso portion about a horizontal axis, and a second motor means operatively connected to said forearm portion to pivot it relative to said upper arm portion. 14. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 13 including a source of fluid under pressure carried in said frame, said first and said second motor means comprises a first and second fluid actuator connected to said fluid under pressure, and a control valve operatively connected to each said first and said second fluid actuator to independently control the operation of each said fluid actuator. 15. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 14 in which each said control valve is operatively connected to a pushbutton disposed in said enclosure for manually controlling the movement of said upper arm and said forearm. 16. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 13 in which said arm control means comprises a radio frequency receiver within said enclosure operatively connected to said first and said second motor means for controlling the movement of said upper arm portion and said forearm portion, and a remote radio frequency transmitter for transmitting radio frequency control signals to said receiver for controlling the operation of said first and second motor means from a remote location. 17. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 13 including a third motor means operatively connected to each said arm assembly to pivot said arm assembly relative to said torso portion about a vertical axis. 18. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 17 including a source of fluid under pressure carried in said frame, each said third motor means comprising a third fluid actuator connected to said fluid under pressure, and a control valve operatively connected to each said third fluid actuator to independently control the operation of each said third fluid actuator. 19. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 18 in which each said control valve is operatively connected to a foot pedal disposed in said enclosure for manually controlling the movement of said arm assembly. 20. A motorized mobile robot according to claim 17 in which said arm control means comprises a radio frequency receiver within said enclosure operatively connected to said first, said second, and said third motor means for controlling the movement of said arm assembly, said upper arm portion, and said forearm portion, and a remote radio frequency transmitter for transmitting radio frequency control signals to said receiver for controlling the operation of said first, said second, and said third motor means from a remote location. 