An tape automated bonding feeder apparatus employs a vertical carrier extraction unit to successively supply electronic circuit components to an output station from which a component is seized for placement and attachment to a circuit board. The feeder apparatus, which may be mounted on a rollable cart, includes a generally rectilinear housing on a top plate of which one or more magazines are mounted. A magazine contains a stack of circuit component carriers. The bottom of the magazine has a carrier extraction unit which controllably allows an individual component carrier at the bottom of the stack to drop away onto an underlying carrier shuttle. The carrier shuttle is supported for movement betweeen the magazine and a lead forming unit. The lead forming unit detaches a component from the carrier and forms the leads of the excised component for mounting the component to a circuit board. A processed component transport unit is coupled to an anvil of the lead forming unit and transports a processed component to the output station.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for successively supplying respective ones of a plurality of electronic circuit components to an output station from which a component is seized for placement and attachment to a circuit board comprising, in combination: a housing; a magazine, in which a plurality of circuit component carriers are arranged in a stacked configuration, mounted on said housing, said magazine having a carrier extraction unit at one end thereof which controllably allows an individual component carrier at one end of said stack to drop away from said stack; a carrier shuttle, supported for movement between a first location of said housing beneath said one end of said magazine and a second location of said housing, said carrier shuttle receiving and supporting a carrier dropped from said magazine for placement on a lead forming unit at said second location of said housing; a lead forming unit at said second location of said housing, said lead forming unit being arranged to separate a component from a component carrier delivered thereto by said shuttle and to form the leads of a separated component into a prescribed shape for mounting the separated component to a circuit board; and a component transport unit coupled to said lead forming unit and arranged to transport a separated component, the leads of which have been formed by said lead forming unit, to said output station. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said lead forming unit comprises an upper lead-clamping, bending and cutting unit mounted at said second location of said housing, and a lead-forming anvil mounted to said component transport unit. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said lead forming unit comprises an upper floating lead-clamp, and bending and cutting members rigidly mounted to a vertically displaceable member at said second location of said housing. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said lead forming unit comprises a controllable press for controllably displacing said vertically displaceable member, to which said bending and cutting members are rigidly mounted, and thereby controlling the lead bending and cutting pressure imparted by said lead forming unit upon said advil. 5. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said component transport unit is arranged to transport said anvil between said second location of said housing and said output station. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said carrier shuttle is configured to retain, in a generally loose fit, horizontal condition, a component carrier that has been dropped from said one end of said magazine. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said carrier shuttle comprises support frame upon which first and second spaced apart retention members are mounted, said retention members being translatable with respect to each other and being arranged to support and retain edge portions of a carrier, while allowing a limited degree of horizontal play of a carrier retained thereby. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said upper lead-clamping, bending and cutting unit has a zero-clearance alignment member arranged to engage a corresponding alignment element fixedly mounted with respect to said lead-forming anvil. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said anvil includes an ejector element controllably urged into contact with a formed part that has been excised from a carrier, so as to lift the part off the anvil and facilitate its capture by a part seizure device at said output station. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said lead forming unit being arranged to form the leads of a separated component into a gull-wing shape for surface-mounting the separated component to a circuit board. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said carrier extraction unit includes a first controllable shutter unit which controllably opens to allow the lowermost component carrier within said magazine to drop therethrough to said shuttle and an adjacent carrier engaging unit which retains a next lowermost component carrier in place as said lowermost component carrier is allowed to drop away from said one end of said magazine and thereafter allows said next lowermost carrier to move into position as the lowermost component carrier within said magazine. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said carrier shuttle is arranged to transport to, and release at a third location of said housing, a carrier from which a component has been separated. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said output station is configured to allow vertical access to a part that has been transported to said output station by said component transport unit. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said lead forming unit comprises a lead forming anvil translatable between said second location and said output station and a die press unit having a lead forming die controllably engageable with said lead forming anvil, so as to remove a component from a carrier that has been placed into registration on said anvil by said shuttle and form the leads of the removed component, and wherein the force exerted by said die upon leads of a part borne by a carrier registered on said anvil is externally controllable. 15. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said anvil includes at least one alignment pin oriented to engage carrier registration element of a carrier delivered by said shuttle to said second location whereat said die press is provided. 16. An apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said anvil further includes an ejector element controllably urged into contact with a formed part that has been excised from a carrier, so as to lift the part off the anvil and facilitate its capture by a part seizure device at said output station. 17. A method for successively supplying respective ones of a plurality of electronic circuit components to an output station from which a component is seized for placement and attachment to a circuit board comprising the steps of: (a) stacking a plurality of component-containing carriers in a generally vertically oriented storage magazine; (b) controllably causing an individual component carrier at the bottom of said stack to drop away from said stack onto a carrier shuttle, which is supported for movement between said magazine and a lead forming unit spaced apart from said magazine; (c) translating said carrier shuttle to said lead forming unit and bringing the component borne by said carrier into engagement with said lead forming unit; (d) causing said lead forming unit to separate a component from a component carrier delivered thereto by said shuttle and to form the leads of a separated component into a prescribed shape for mounting the separated component to a circuit board; and (e) translating a separated component, the leads of which have been formed by said lead forming unit, to said output station. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein said lead forming unit comprises an upper lead-clamping, bending and cutting unit mounted at said second location of said housing, and a lead-forming anvil mounted to said component transport unit, and wherein said component transport unit is arranged to transport said anvil to said output station. 19. A method according to claim 17, wherein step (b) comprises retaining an individual component carrier that has dropped away from said stack onto said carrier shuttle in a generally horizontal condition. 20. A method to claim 17, wherein step (b) comprises providing a carrier extraction unit at the bottom of said magazine, said carrier extraction unit including a first controllable shutter unit which controllably opens to allow the lowermost component carrier within said magazine to drop therethrough to said shuttle and an adjacent carrier engaging unit which retains a next lowermost component carrier in place as said lowermost component carrier is allowed to drop away from said one end of said magazine and thereafter allows said next lowermost carrier to move into position as the lowermost component carrier within said magazine. 21. An apparatus for successively supplying respective ones of a plurality of electronic circuit components to an output station from which a component is seized for placement and attachment to a circuit board comprising, in combination: a housing having an aperture through which a component carrier may pass; a plurality of magazines, in each of which a plurality of circuit component carriers are arranged in a stacked configuration, translatably mounted with respect to the aperture of said housing, each magazine having a carrier extraction unit at one end thereof which controllably allows an individual component carrier at one end of said stack to drop away from said stack through said aperture, when said each magazine is aligned over said aperture; a carrier shuttle, supported for movement between a first location of said housing beneath said aperture and a second location of said housing, said carrier shuttle receiving and supporting a carrier dropped from said a magazine for placement on a lead forming unit at said second location of said housing; a lead forming unit at said second location of said housing, said lead forming unit being arranged to separate a component from a component carrier delivered thereto by said shuttle and to form the leads of a separated component into a prescribed shape for mounting the separated component to a circuit board; and a component transport unit coupled to said lead forming unit and arranged to transport a separated component, the leads of which have been formed by said lead forming unit, to said output station. 22. An apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said lead forming unit comprises an upper lead-clamping, bending and cutting unit mounted at said second location of said housing, and a lead-forming anvil mounted to said component transport unit. 23. An apparatus according to claim 22, wherein said component transport unit is arranged to transport said anvil between said second location of said housing and said output station. 24. An apparatus according to claim 23, wherein said carrier shuttle is configured to retain, in a generally horizontal condition, a component carrier that has been dropped through said aperture. 25. An apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said carrier extraction unit includes a first controllable shutter unit which controllably opens to allow the lowermost component carrier within a magazine to drop therethrough to said shuttle and an adjacent carrier engaging unit which retains a next lowermost component carrier in place as said lowermost component carrier is allowed to drop away from said magazine through said aperture and thereafter allows said next lowermost carrier to move into position as the lowermost component carrier within said magazine. 26. An apparatus according to claim 25, wherein said carrier shuttle comprises support frame upon which first and second spaced apart retention members are mounted, said retention members being translatable with respect to each other and being arranged to support and retain edge portions of a carrier. 