Substrate handling apparatus includes a trigger handle which forms a trigger-like mechanism with a handle grip. The trigger handle is interconnected with activation means such that application of pressure on the trigger handle activates the activation means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Substrate handling apparatus, comprising: a frame having a handle grip extending therefrom; two clamps mounted in said frame, each clamp having a clamping portion extending from said frame, and each clamp being movable from a reset position to a clamping position; activation means disposed in said frame, interconnected with said clamps, and activatable for controlling movement of said clamps from the reset position to the clamping position; and a trigger handle forming a trigger-like mechanism with said handle grip, and being interconnected with said activation means such that application of pressure on said trigger handle activates said activation means; said activation means comprising: an activation rod bearing against said trigger handle, and pivoting in response to application of pressure on said trigger handle; a shaft being connected to said activation rod such that pivoting of said activation rod translates into linear forward movement of said shaft; and a guiding piece being affixed to said shaft, and in mutual engagement with said clamps, said guiding piece being urged forward in response to the linear forward movement of said shaft, whereby the forward movement of said guiding piece causes the clamps to move from the reset position to the clamping position. 2. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein pressure is manually applied on said trigger handle. 3. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 2, wherein holding of said handle grip and application of pressure on said trigger handle can be simultaneously accomplished with one-hand operation. 4. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said handle grip extends at about a 90 degree angle from said frame. 5. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, further including reset means which maintains said clamps in the reset position until activated by said activation means. 6. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said shaft is spring-loaded so as to maintain said clamps in the reset position until activated by said activation means. 7. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said clamps are in sliding engagement with said guiding piece. 8. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of said clamps includes at least one slot, each slot being in sliding engagement with a corresponding affixed pin, and each slot being obliquely oriented such that forward movement of said clamps is accompanied by movement of said clamps toward each other. 9. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said clamps are replaceable. 10. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a second handle grip affixed to said frame and extending at about a 90 degree angle from said frame. 11. Substrate handling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said second handle grip is removable from said frame. 