A lattice production line includes a plurality of work stations, each connected to adjacent work stations by more than two conveyor belts. Each work station includes a manufacturing robot, an outer turntable with workpiece storage, and an inner turntable aligned with the robot. A program is provided to operate each conveyor, turntable, and robot independently, wherein parallel processing of workpieces through the system is possible. A preproduction scheduling algorithm provides for initial efficient use of the lattice, while a runtime algorithm enables the lattice to respond efficiently to the occurrence of faults.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A production line including a plurality of work stations for processing a plurality of workpieces, the production line comprising: a first turntable means at each work station, the turntable having a central area and a plurality of radial storage sites leading to the central area, wherein workpieces are stored on the radial paths; means for rotating the first turntable to position the radial paths in selected angular orientations; second turntable means positioned in alignment with the central area of the first turntable means, the second turntable means having radial transport means associated therewith for shifting workpieces into alignment with selected radial paths on the first turntable means; means for rotating the second turntable means independently of the first turntable; means for aligning the radial transport with selected radial paths on the first turntable means; means aligned with each work station for performing a manufacturing operation on workpieces positioned on the second turntable means; a conveyor lattice comprised of a plurality of conveyors aligned with each work station and extending to adjacent work stations, wherein workpieces may be transferred selectively from one work station to one of a plurality of work stations connected by the conveyors; and means for selecting the work station to which the workpiece is transferred according to the availability of that work station for performing the manufacturing operation on the workpiece. 2. The production line of claim 1, wherein the lattice is configured with at least three conveyor belts aligned with each work station, wherein the means for selecting the work station to which a workpiece is transferred makes selections so that a plurality of workpieces move through the production line in parallel. 3. The production line of claim 2, wherein the workpieces are parts to be assembled at the work stations and wherein the production line includes a plurality of entry and exit points so that the parts enter the lattice at a plurality of work stations and exit the lattice at a plurality of work stations. 4. The production line of claim 3, wherein the means for performing a manufacturing operation is positioned orthogonally of the first and second work stations. 5. The production line of claim 4, wherein the conveyors are belts. 