A high contrast remotely switchable target discriminator, particularly suitable for use with automatic guided vehicles (AGVs), is disclosed. A laser light source directs light through a first polarizer to reflect off a beam splitter toward a target, which may be an AGV guidepath. The target comprises a reflecting material overlaid with a polarization rotator so that the light then reflected from the target has a polarization different from that from the original light source. The reflected light transmits back through the beam splitter to a second polarizer that transmits only light of the rotated polarization. Light that passes through the second polarizer then strikes a detector. A second polarizer-detector combination may be set to transmit and detect only light of the non-rotated polarization so that a sufficiently large ratio of the two different polarizations may be tested. The polarization rotator may be made of electro-optically birefringent material overlaying a reflector so that the polarization rotation may be switched either on and off, or proportionally, to turn a target either on or off or to identify a particular target. The polarization rotator may also be made of electro-optically birefringent material overlaying a dielectric stack.
Claims I claim: 1. A target discrimination system for an automatic guided vehicle, comprising: (a) means for emitting polarized light having a first polarization vector, wherein the polarized light emitting means is mounted on the automatic guided vehicle: (b) reflecting means for receiving polarized light having the first polarization vector and emitting polarized light having a second polarization vector, wherein the reflecting means includes means for switching the second polarization vector between equal to and unequal to a third polarization vector, and wherein the reflecting means comprises an optical guidepath for, and in a spaced relationship from, the automatic guided vehicle; and, (c) means for detecting threshold levels of polarized light having the third polarization vector, wherein the detecting means is mounted on the automatic guided vehicle. 