A closed loop multi-link robotic apparatus is actuated to produce two-dimensional motion with respect to a base member. The base member is coupled to an actuator which, in a practical embodiment of the invention, moves the base member along a part which is rectilinearly orthogonal with the respect to the two-dimensional motion. A correlator, which may be an electronic system, controls the actuator to produce a predetermined composite three-dimensional motion which can be adapted to performed industrial automation tasks. Adjustability of the system is achieved by providing a mechanism for adjusting the length of one or more of the links. Additionally, other elements may be varied, such as an angular relationship between various ones of the rigid links or the angular relationship between an end-effector coupler and the multi-link system. In some embodiments, the changes in link length may be correlated to the position of the actuator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system for moving an end-effector along a predeterminable path, the robotic system comprising: link means formed of a plurality of rigid link members coupled to one another at a respective plurality of link coupling points, said link means having first and second ends; base means for supporting said link means; first actuator means coupled to at least said first end of said link means for urging said first end of said link means into a first predeterminable motion with respect to said base means, said first predeterminable motion being along a first path of travel having at least a first dimensional component; link length adjustment means for adjusting a length characteristic of at least one of said rigid link members, said link length adjustment means being responsive to the operation of said first actuator means; end-effector coupling means for coupling the end-effector to said link means, said coupling between said link means and the end-effector being located at an end-effector coupling point on said link means intermediate of said first and second ends, said end-effector coupling point being urged along a first predeterminable end-effector coupling point travel path having said first and a second dimensional components; and second end coupling means for forming a closed loop between said first and second ends of said link means. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein there is further provided second actuator means coupled to said base means for moving said end-effector coupling point along a second predeterminable end-effector coupling point travel path having a third dimensional component, said end-effector thereby being urged along a three-dimensional path. 3. The robotic system of claim 2 wherein said second coupling means is coupled to said base means. 4. The robotic system of claim 2 wherein said second actuator produces rectilinear motion along said third dimension. 5. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said second end coupling means couples said second end of said link means to a third actuator means, said third actuator means urging said second end of said link means into a second predeterminable motion with respect to said base means, said second predeterminable motion being along a second path of travel having at least a first dimensional component. 6. The robotic system of claim 5 wherein said second predeterminable motion of said second end coupling means combines with said first predetermined motion of said first end to produce a predeterminable composite end-effector coupling point travel path having first and second dimensional components. 7. The robotic system of claim 5 wherein there is further provided first actuator synchronizer means for coordinating the operation of said first and third actuator means. 8. The robotic system of claim 7 wherein said first actuator synchronizer means is provided with rate control means for maintaining a predetermined relationship between respective rates of operation of said first and third actuator means. 9. The robotic system of claim 7 wherein said first actuator synchronizer means is provided with phase control means for maintaining a predetermined phase relationship between said first and third actuator means. 10. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein there is further provided length adjustment means associated with at least one of said rigid link members for producing a variation in said first predeterminable end-effector coupling point travel path. 11. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said end-effector coupling means comprises an end-effector arm. 12. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said end-effector coupling means couples to said link means at an adjustable angle with respect thereto. 13. A method of driving a robotic apparatus along a three-dimensional path, the method comprising the steps of: driving directly a first link of said multi-link closed loop mechanism; driving directly a second link of said multi-link closed loop mechanism; controlling respective rates of operation of said steps of driving directly; and second driving said base along a predetermined second path in a third dimension of travel, whereby said selected portion of said multi-link closed loop mechanism is driven along a composite path having first, second, and third dimensional components. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said step of correlating comprises the step controlling a phase relationship between said steps of driving directly. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein there is further provided the step of adjusting a predetermined parameter associated with at least one of said links in said multi-link closed loop mechanism. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said predetermined parameter corresponds to a length of said link. 17. A robotic system comprising: a closed loop linkage system having first and second ends and a plurality of rigid links therebetween; link actuator means for urging said first end of said closed loop linkage system into motion along a first predetermined path; base means for supporting said closed loop linkage system and said link actuator means; base actuator means for urging said base means into motion along a second predetermined path; and link adjustment means for varying a link length characteristic of at least one of said rigid links in response to said link actuator means. 18. The robotic system of claim 17 wherein there is further provided end-effector coupling means, and said predetermined characteristic corresponds to an orientation between said end-effector coupling means and said closed loop linkage system. 19. The robotic system of claim 17 wherein there is further provided actuator correlator means for coordinating the operation of said link actuator means and said base actuator means. 