A method and apparatus which incorporates an optimization gradient algorithm for post production tuning of a microstrip microwave amplifier. The tuning technique replaces conventional time consuming manual post production tuning techniques and comprises a computerized technique which is operable to test the amplifier for its response characteristics, perturb circuit matching elements and measure the response as a result of the perturbations, and thereafter effect the required change in the circuit's tuning elements to bring the circuit response in conformance with a desired value. Perturbation is accomplished by robotic placement of dielectric chips on the matching elements while tuning is accomplished by either computer controlled laser trimming of the lengths of the tuning elements or robotic application of metallization to the tuning elements for increasing their respective lengths.
Claims We claim: 1. A fully automated iterative method performed under the control of a computer apparatus having a desired signal response characteristic stored therein for the post production testing, perturbation and tuning of a stripline amplifier circuit, comprising the steps of: a. measuring an actual signal response of said amplifier circuit for each of a predetermined number of operational frequencies; b. determining a signal response error between the desired signal response characteristic stored in said computer apparatus and the actual signal response measured for each of said predetermined number of operational frequencies; c. determining an average response error of the total signal response error for all of said predetermined number of operational frequencies; d. terminating the method if said average response error is within a predetermined range of values, otherwise e. robotically positioning said stripline amplifier circuit and perturbing at least one circuit element of said stripline amplifier circuit in accordance with a gradient algorithm for producing a change of the actual signal response; f. repeating steps (a) and (b); g. determining at least one perturbation signal response for each of said predetermined number of operational frequencies; h. determining a perturbation signal response error from said desired signal response for each of said predetermined number of operational frequencies; i. determining a required dimensional change in at least one tuning element for minimizing said perturbation signal response error; j. robotically repositioning said stripline amplifier circuit and thereafter robotically increasing or decreasing a dimension of said tuning element for tuning said amplifier circuit until the actual signal response error thereof is within an acceptable value relative to said optimum signal response. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said steps of positioning and repositioning comprise electronically determining the position of computer controlled support means for supporting said stripline amplifier circuit and moving said support means under computer control to a predetermined position corresponding to the location of said one circuit element and said tuning element. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said step of position determining comprises electronically sensing a set of indicia on said support means and generating positional feedback signals, said computer using said feedback signals for moving said support means to said one circuit element and said tuning element. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said support means comprises a movable table, said indicia comprises a set of fiducial marks located on a surface of said movable table, and said step of electronically sensing comprises viewing the set of fiducial marks with a video camera. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein said at least one circuit element comprises a matching element associated with said tuning element and said perturbing step comprises the step of robotically changing the effective length of said matching element. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said perturbing step includes the step of changing the effective length of said matching element a first and second time, and repeating steps (a) and (b) each said time. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said matching element comprises a circuit stub and wherein said step of altering the effective length comprises robotically decreasing the effective length of said circuit stub by placing a dielectric chip thereon. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said step of placing a dielectric chip comprises placing a different sized dielectric chip on said circuit stub each said time. 9. The method of claim 2 wherein said at least one circuit element comprises a tuning stub and said perturbing step comprises removing a selected portion from said tuning stub. 10. The method of claim 2 wherein said step of measuring includes at least three operational frequencies. 11. The method of claim 2 wherein said signal response error for each operational frequency comprises a root mean square value. 12. A computer controlled automated tune, perturb and test station for a stripline amplifier circuit; a. a computer means for controlling a stripline amplifier circuit under test in accordance with a predetermined optimization algorithm for achieving a desired signal response; b. said computer means further including means for storing a set of operating routines, an optimum signal response, and measurement data of the actual signal response of said circuit under test; c. frequency generator means coupled to and controlled by said computer means for producing continuous wave, relatively low power, radio frequency input signals of a plurality of different frequencies; d. pulse generator means for generating a pulsed video output signal; e. modulator means coupled to said frequency generator means and said pulse generator means and being responsive to said continuous wave input signals and said pulsed video output signal therefrom for generating a pulse of the continuous wave, low power, radio frequency input signal for each of said plurality of different frequencies; f. RF amplifier means coupled to said modulator and being responsive to said pulse of the input signal for generating a relatively high power, radio frequency input signal pulse; g. means for applying said input signal pulse to said circuit under test; h. robotic perturbing and tuning means including a robot, a video camera, and a laser; i. controller means controlled by said computer means through an interface bus for controlling said robotic means; j. a movable table for supporting said circuit under test and including position reference means located thereon for being sensed by said video camera, said table further being coupled to and controlled in response to control signals from said computer means for selectively positioning said circuit under test relative to said robot and said laser in response to output signals from said video camera being fed back to said controller means; k. means selectively provided by said robot and said laser for producing a physical perturbation of at least one circuit element of said circuit under test; l. means controlled by said computer means for providing measurement data of the current drawn by and outputted from said circuit under test for said plurality of different frequencies for determining the actual signal response to said input signal pulse of said different frequencies prior to and following said physical perturbation; and m. said laser and said robot being responsive to control signals from said controller means for respectively removing or adding discrete portions from and to at least one tuning element of said circuit under test for minimizing a difference between the actual signal response and the desired circuit response. 13. The station of claim 12 wherein said plurality of different frequencies comprises at least three frequencies. 14. The station of claim 13 wherein said at least one circuit element comprises a matching stub and said tuning element comprises a tuning stub. 15. The station of claim 14 wherein said matching stub and said tuning stub are located mutually opposite from one another at the same location of said stripline amplifier circuit. 16. The station of claim 13 wherein said at least one circuit element perturbed also comprises said tuning element. 17. The station of claim 16 wherein said laser produces a perturbation by making predetermined cuts in said tuning element. 18. The station of claim 15 wherein said robot produces a perturbation by placing a dielectric chip on said matching stub. 19. The station of claim 15 wherein said robot produces a perturbation by sequentially placing at least two dielectric chips of different sizes on said matching stub. 20. The station of claim 15 wherein said robot adds discrete portions by painting metallization on said tuning element. 21. The station of claim 15 wherein said laser removes discrete portions by cutting a portion of metallization from the length of said tuning element. 22. The station of claim 15 wherein said position reference means comprises a set of fiducial marks viewable by said video camera located on a surface of said movable table containing said circuit under test. 