A horizontal oscillatory feeder apparatus is disclosed for feeding a plurality of different types of electrical components of varying mass along respective tracks to component pick-up stations. The components and the tracks are supported on a base plate, which is excited in an oscillatory movement. The movement of the base plate is constrained so that movement is permitted only along an axis parallel to the feeder tracks. An excitation apparatus excites the base plate so that the acceleration forces applied to the components in a desired direction of movement exceeds the frictional force tending to prevent slippage of the components on the tracks; the acceleration forces applied to the components in the opposite direction are limited so that the components do not slip on the track in the opposite direction to the desired movement. A component clamp may be located at the end of the respective tracks to clamp the components in place at respective pick-up locations once the components have been fed forward to the pick-up locations by the effect of the oscillatory movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for feeding an electrical component in a desired direction along a track extending along a track axis, comprising: means for constraining the track from moving except in directions along said axis; and means for oscillating said track in directions along said axis to achieve acceleration forces on said electrical component which exceed the frictional force between the track and said component in said desired direction, thereby resulting in slippage of said component in relation to the track and feed said component along the track in the desired direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said acceleration forces on said electrical component which exceed said frictional forces are achieved when the track oscillation movement direction is reversed from a first direction to a second direction. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising dampening means for abruptly changing said direction of said oscillation movement. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said track is mounted on a support element such that said track axis is substantially horizontal, and said constraining means comprises a bearing for guiding said support element along said directions along said axis. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said means for oscillating said track comprises a pneumatic cylinder arranged to drive said support element in said directions along said track axis. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said pneumatic cylinder comprises a piston which may be selectively extended and retracted, and means for repetitively extending and retracting said piston through an oscillation stroke. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said acceleration forces on said electrical component which exceed said frictional forces are achieved when the direction of the track movement is reversed from movement in said desired direction to movement in the direction opposite to said desired direction. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising dampening means for abruptly stopping the movement of said support element in said desired direction. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said dampening comprises a stop element disposed so that said support element runs into said stop element at the end of the movement in said desired direction. 10. Apparatus for feeding an object in a desired direction along a track extending along a track axis and mounted on a support element such that said track axis is substantially horizontal, comprising: means for constraining the track from moving except in directions along said axis, said means comprising a bearing for guiding the support element along said directions along said axis; means for oscillating said track in directions along said axis to achieve acceleration forces on said object which exceed the frictional force between the track and the object in said desired direction, said means for oscillating said track comprising a pneumatic cylinder arranged to drive the support element in said directions along said track axis and wherein said pneumatic cylinder comprises a piston which may be selectively extended and retracted, and means for repetitively extending and retracting said piston through an oscillation stroke; and wherein said means for oscillating said track comprises first oscillation means for repetitively oscillating said track in such a manner as to apply relative larger acceleration forces on said object in the direction of desired movement to move said object by a relatively large increment on each stroke cycle to relatively large increment qucikly move said object along said track during a large increment cycle mode, and second oscillating means for repetitively oscillating said track in such a manner as to apply relatively smaller acceleration forces on said object in the direction of desired movement which are smaller than said relatively large acceleration to move said object by a relatively smaller increment on each second oscillation cycle during a small increment oscillation cycle mode; thereby resulting in slippage of the object in relation to the track and feeding the object along the track in the desired direction. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising means for selecting the large increment and small increment cycle mode durations in dependence on the size of the object being fed along said track. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the large increment and small increment cycle mode durations are fixed. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for controlling the operation of said oscillating means in dependence on the length of said electrical component. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said apparatus is operated to feed a succession of said electrical components along said track, and further comprising means for controlling said oscillating means to operate for a time duration necessary to feed an electrical component a given distance, and means for selecting said time duration in dependence on said given distance. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said given distance is dependent on the length of said electrical component. 16. Horizontal tube magazine feeder apparatus for feeding electrical components of different sizes from a plurality of tube magazines in a desired direction, comprising: magazine support means for supporting said plurality of tube magazines in a generally horizontal plane or planes; means for exciting said support means with horizontal excitation forces to move said tube magazines in an oscillatory fashion and achieve acceleration forces on said components in said desired direction which exceed the frictional forces tending to prevent sliding of the components within said magazines, thereby feeding said components in said desired direction; and means for constraining the movement of said magazine support means during said excitation by said exciting means so that said support means is permitted to move only along an axis extending along said desired direction. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said magazine support means comprises a base support plate disposed in a generally horizontal plane for supporting said plurality of tube magazines. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said plurality of said tube magazines are supported by a surface of said base support plate, and said support means further comprises at least one tiered support plate supported above said base plate and supporting a further plurality of said tube magazines above said magazines supported by said surface of said base plate. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a plurality of end-of-track tooling (ETT) means secured in alignment with an open end of said tube magazines in the direction of said desired movement so that said components are fed out of said tube magazines onto said ETT means, and wherein said plurality of ETT means includes at least one clamping ETT means for clamping the leads of said components fed onto said clamping ETT means, and at least one non-clamping ETT means wherein the component is not clamped at said ETT means. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said non-clamping ETT means comprises lead stop means for stopping the further movement of said component on said ETT means by contacting one or more leads of said component. 21. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising means for controlling the duration of operation of said exciting means in dependence on the length of a particular one of said components to be fed in said desired direction. 22. A horizontal tube magazine feeder apparatus for feeding electrical components from one or more tube magazines in a desired direction, comprising: a magazine support plate disposed in a generally horizontal plane for supporting said one or more tube magazines; a based structure for supporting said support plate and exciting said plate with horizontal excitation forces, comprising bearing means for preventing movement of said plate except along directions parallel to said desired direction, exciting means for moving said plate along directions parallel to said one or more tube magazines in an oscillatory fashion and achieving acceleration forces on said component in said desired direction which exceed the frictional forces tending to prevent sliding of the component within said tube magazine, thereby feeding said components in said desired direction. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said acceleration forces on the components in said direction of desired movement which exceed the frictional forces are achieved as the plate oscillation movement along one direction is stopped. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising means for abruptly stopping said plate oscillation movement along said one direction. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said stopping means comprises a dampener stop element secured to said base structure and against which stop element a structural means secured to said plate comes into contact to stop said movement along said one direction. 26. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said exciting means comprises a pneumatic cylinder means having a first end secured to said base structure, a second end secured to said plate, and a piston, and means for selectively extending and retracting said piston to impart oscillatory forces to said plate. 27. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising end-of-track tooling (ETT) means disposed at an end of each of said one or more tube magazines to which said apparatus feeds components, said ETT means comprising means for establishing respective component pick-up locations for picking up components from said ETT means. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said ETT means for at least one of said tube magazines includes means for clamping one or more leads of said components at said pick-up location. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said ETT means for at least another one of said tube magazines does not include lead clamping means, wherein components are picked up from said track pick-up location without clamping the leads at said pick-up location. 30. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said apparatus comprises means for supporting a plurality of tiers of tube magazines on said magazine support plate, and further comprises end-of-track tooling (ETT) means for each tube magazine. 31. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said magazine support plate supports a plurality of tube magazine which hold a plurality of types of components of different sizes. 32. Apparatus for feeding an object in a desired direction along a track extending along a track axis and mounted on a support element such that said track axis is substantially horizontal, comprising: means for constraining the track from moving except in directions along said axis, said constraining means comprising a bearing for guiding the support element along said directions along said axis; means for oscillating said track in directions along said axis to achieve acceleration forces on said object which exceed the frictional force between the track and the object in said desired direction when the direction of the track movement is reversed from movement in said desired direction to movement in the direction opposite to said desired direction; dampening means for abruptly stopping the movement of said support element in said desired direction, said means comprising a stop element secured to a stationary structure and disposed so that said support element runs into said stop element at the end of movement in said desired direction, thereby resulting in slippage of the object in relation to the track and feeding the object along the track in the desired direction. 33. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein said stop element comprises an elastomeric member. 34. A horizontal tube magazine feeder apparatus for feeding electrical components from one or more tube magazines in a desired direction, comprising: a magazine support plate disposed in a generally horizontal plane for supporting said one or more tube magazines; a base structure for supporting said support plate and exciting said plate with horizontal excitation forces, comprising: bearing means for preventing movement of said plate except along directions parallel to said desired direction, said bearing means comprising at least one bearing shaft mounted to said base structure along a direction parallel to said axis, and at least one bearing pillow block secured to a lower surface of said support plate and having an opening formed therein in which said shaft is received, wherein movement of said block along said shaft is permitted, and movement in directions not parallel to said bearing shaft is constrained, and exciting means for moving said plate along directions parallel to said one or more tube magazines in an oscillatory fashion and achieving acceleration forces on said component in said desired direction which exceed the frictional forces tending to prevent sliding of the component within said tube magazine, thereby feeding said components in said desired direction. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein said bearing means comprises two said bearing shafts mounted parallel to each other, and for each shaft, two pillow blocks secured to said lower surface of said plate. 