A load lock removes particulate contamination during microelectronic manufacturing. The load lock may have a single door or two doors, or a single door and a funnel valve. A passageway is defined through the load lock when the door or doors, or the funnel valve, are opened. The particulate contamination is removed from the load lock by providing a laminar flow of gas through the passageway. The source for generating the laminar flow may be external to the load lock or internal to the load lock.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An apparatus for transferring objects to and from a processing chamber comprising: a load lock chamber, adapted for connection to a processing chamber; means for moving an object from said load lock chamber to a processing chamber; first and second sealing means mounted on said load lock chamber, said first and second sealing means being movable between open and closed positions, for sealing said load lock chamber in the closed position and for defining a passageway through said chamber in the open position; and means for generating a laminar gas flow through the passageway; whereby particulate contamination is removed from the passageway by the laminar gas flow. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a gate valve having a gate valve sealing means, said gate valve sealing means being movable between open and closed positions, for sealing the processing chamber in the closed position and for defining a gate valve passageway through which an object is moved between said load lock chamber and the processing chamber. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said moving means comprises a robotic arm for moving an object into and out of the processing chamber. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said generating means comprises a source of laminar gas flow external to said load lock chamber for generating a laminar gas flow through the passageway. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said load lock chamber is mounted in a clean room having a ceiling and a floor, and having a laminar air flow from the clean room ceiling to the clean room floor, and wherein said external source comprises the laminar air flow from the clean room ceiling to the clean room floor. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said external source comprises an external air duct for generating a luminar gas flow through the passageway. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for evacuating the load lock chamber and for returning said load lock chamber to atmospheric pressure. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a controller for electronically controlling said moving means and said generating means. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 in combination with a processing chamber, said load lock chamber being connected to said processing chamber; said moving means moving an object from said load lock chamber to the connected processing chamber. 10. A method for removing particulate contamination from a load lock chamber, having a top side and a bottom side, and located in a clean room having laminar gas flow from the clean room ceiling to the clean room floor, said method comprising the steps of: placing an object in the load lock chamber; opening at least the top side of the load lock chamber, to admit the laminar gas flow from the clean room ceiling into the load lock chamber to remove particulate contaminants from the load lock chamber; and sealing the load lock chamber to permit contaminant-free processing of the object. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: moving the object from the load lock chamber into a processing chamber; processing the object inside the processing chamber; moving the processed object from the processing chamber to the load lock chamber; unsealing the load lock chamber; and removing the object from the load lock chamber. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said laminar gas flow is a straight laminar gas flow. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said laminar gas flow originates outside said load lock chamber. 