The method and apparatus of the present invention permits the automated deposition of heated solder onto a plurality of conductive pads which are disposed in one or more linear arrays on a circuit board or other planar member. A robotically controlled arm is utilized to mount a solder nozzle and selectively manipulate the solder nozzle over the circuit board. The solder nozzle is first manipulated to a selected point offset in a known direction and distance from a first conductive pad by means of a data set which specifies the centroid and footprint for a selected group of conductive pads. After feeding solder into the solder nozzle, aligning the solder nozzle at a desired angle parallel to a linear array of conductive pads and lowering the solder nozzle until a solder droplet contacts the circuit board, the solder nozzle is manipulated at a substantially constant velocity toward the first conductive pad and thereafter along a selected line which tracks the linear array of conductive pads. To avoid solder starvation at the last few pads in a linear array, the solder nozzle is manipulated at a selected angle away from the selected line while decreasing the solder nozzle velocity. The angle of departure from the selected line is preferably an acute angle selected so that the solder nozzle avoids contact with alignment points or other areas which do not require solder deposition.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for depositing solder onto a plurality of conductive pads disposed in a linear array on a planar surface utilizing a robotically controlled solder nozzle which is selectively manipulatable about said planar surface, said method comprising the steps of: positioning said solder nozzle adjacent to said planar surface at a first selected point offset from a first of said plurality of conductive pads; manipulating said solder nozzle at a selected substantially constant velocity to said first of said plurality of conductive pads and thereafter along said linear array; and turning said solder nozzle at an angle away from said linear array at a second selected point proximate to a last of said plurality of conductive pads while decreasing the velocity of said solder nozzle wherein a uniform thickness of solder is deposited on each of said plurality of conductive arrays. 2. The method for depositing solder onto a plurality of conductive pads according to claim 1, wherein said first selected point is disposed at a selected distance away from and perpendicular to the line of said linear array. 3. The method for depositing solder onto a plurality of conductive pads according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of alignment points are located on said planar surface and wherein said angle is selected such that said solder nozzle avoids each of said plurality of alignment points. 4. The method for depositing solder onto a plurality of conductive pads according to claim 1, wherein, said angle away from said linear array is an acute angle. 5. The method for depositing solder onto a plurality of conductive pads according to claim 4, wherein said acute angle is between 0 and 75 degrees. 6. An apparatus for depositing solder onto a plurality of conductive pads disposed in a linear array on a planar surface, said apparatus comprising: a robotically controlled solder nozzle; means for positioning said robotically controlled solder nozzle adjacent to said planar surface at a first selected point offset from a first of said plurality of conductive pads; means for manipulating said solder nozzle at a selected substantially constant velocity to said first of said plurality of conductive pads and thereafter along said linear array; and means for altering the path of said solder nozzle at an angle away from said linear array at a second selected point proximate to a last of said plurality of conductive pads while deceasing the velocity of said solder nozzle wherein a uniform thickness of solder is deposited on each of said plurality of conductive pads. 7. The apparatus for depositing solder onto a plurality of conductive pads according to claim 6, wherein said solder nozzle includes a leading edge and a trailing edge and wherein said means for positioning said robotically controlled solder nozzle adjacent to said planar surface at a first selected point offset from a first of said plurality of conductive pads includes means for aligning said leading edge and said trailing edge of said solder nozzle on a line parallel to the line of said linear array prior to manipulating said solder nozzle to said first of said plurality of conductive pads. 