A compliant walker for humans having limited use of their legs and lower back includes an upright wheeled frame which at least partially surrounds an upright user wearing a partial body harness which is attached to the frame by means of cable compliant apparatus consisting of sets of cable segments and angle bracket members connected between opposite side members of the frame and adjacent side portions of the harness. The type of partial body harness utilized takes two forms, the first being a torso harness which encircles the waist or rib cage of the user, while the second type of harness is a hip harness which fits around the hips and buttocks. The frame itself lends itself to several embodiments, one of which completely surrounds the user, while the other consists of a frame open at the front end including a pair of upright side members which attach to the cable support apparatus and which is vertically adjustable to accommodate the user's height.
Claims We claim: 1. A compliant walker for aiding persons having limited use of their lower extremities, comprising: a wheeled frame including upright support means; body harness means; cable compliance means connected between said body harness means and said upright support means for flexibly holding and supporting a person in a substantially upright position while said person sags in said frame when taking weight off said lower extremities; said cable compliance means includes a plurality of cable segments and angle brackets arranged in sets of parallel cable segments, said cable segments being coupled at one end to a respective angle bracket and at the other end selectively to said harness or said upright support means. 2. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein each said set of cable segments terminate in respective pairs of end members and wherein said end members selectively attach to said harness and said upright support means. 3. The compliant walker of claim 2 wherein four sets of cable segments are arranged within said frame on either side of said harness means in parallel pairs and having an intermediate angle bracket coupled between each set of a pair. 4. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein angle bracket comprises a right angle bracket. 5. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein each set of cable segments includes at least two cable segments. 6. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said body harness means incudes a relatively soft inner belt member and a relatively stiffer outer band member connected to said compliance means. 7. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said body harness means comprises a harness engaging an upper torso portion of said person. 8. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said harness encircles said upper torso portion. 9. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said body harness means comprises a girdle type harness engaging the hips of said person. 10. The compliant walker of claim 9 wherein said parallel sets of cable segments couple to hip regions of said girdle type harness. 11. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said upright support means of said wheeled frame are hinged together so as to permit ingress and igress to and from said harness means. 12. The compliant walker of claim 11 wherein said harness means is separable to permit said person to get in and out of said harness. 13. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said upright support means includes side support means. 14. The compliant walker of claim 13 wherein said side support means are adjustable in height. 15. The compliant walker of claim 13 wherein said wheeled frame includes a pair of substantially horizontal elongated wheeled side members and wherein said upright support means comprises a substantially vertical support member coupled at one end to a respective side member of said pair of side members and at the other end to said compliance means. 16. The compliant walker of claim 15 wherein each said vertical support member includes an inwardly angulating offset member located between the upper end of said vertical support member and said compliance means for reducing frame obstruction in relation to the arms of said person. 17. The compliant walker of claim 16 wherein each said vertical support member includes means for varying the height of said compliance means. 18. The compliant walker of claim 13 wherein said side support means comprises a pair of horizontal base members including means for selectively extending the respective lengths thereof. 19. The compliant walker of claim 18 wherein said pair of horizontal base members include outrigger type means for enhancing the stability of said wheeled frame. 20. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said wheeled frame comprises a knock down structure for easy disassembly and reassembly to facilitate transportation and storage of the walker when not in use. 21. The compliant walker of claim 20 wherein said body harness means is comprised of two separable halves. 22. The compliant walker of claim 20 wherein said wheeled frame incudes a pair of side members including said upright support means and additionally including at least one cross member comprised of two interconnecting parts and including means for preventing separation when joined together. 23. The compliant walker of claim 1 wherein said wheeled frame includes a set of wheels mounted thereon and additionally including motor means for powering said wheels. 