An automated multi-purpose analytical chemistry processing center and laboratory work station having a movable table for supporting microtiter plates and other fluid receptacles, a movable arm, and a modular mobile pod affixed for reciprocal movement along the arm. The workstation combines into a single programmable system the capabilities for automation of a wide range of bioanalytical procedures including, not only sample pipetting, serial dilution, reagent additions, mixing, reaction timing and similar known manual procedures, but also programmable spectrophotometric measurements and other physical parameters, further processing based on these measurements and automatic data recording. The work station is adapted to transfer, dispense, and aspirate liquid from one location to another automatically in accordance with user programmed instructions. The work station is capable of measuring physical characteristics of selected samples and performing experimental assays in a closed loop manner in accordance with those measurements. Fluid is dispensed and aspirated using an interchangeable modules having one or a selected plurality of nozzles. Affixed to the modules nozzles are disposable pipettor tips, which are automatically picked up by the pod and ejected by a tip ejector mechanism at the control of the user. Additional modules may be used to perform Measurement Functions. The work station is designed for interactive connection with a remote computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical detection system for use in conjunction with an automated chemistry processing system and laboratory work station, said optical detection system comprising: a source of electromagnetic radiation; means for transmitting the radiation to a sample container containing sample and directing said radiation through said sample in a relatively narrow beam; remote control means to position an optical detection module in proximity with said sample; said optical detection module comprising: an automatically, remotely controlled first filter wheel, said first filter wheel having a plurality of optical filters, said first filter wheel being remotely controlled by said remote control means; said remote control means turning said first filter wheel to select one of said optical filters; a transducer means responding to said relatively narrow beam of said radiation, said transducer responsive to a narrow wavelength of said radiation as selected by one of said optical filters; and means for detecting and converting the output of said transducer means to a computer readable format. 2. The optical detection system of claim 1, further including a second filter wheel, positioned between the source of electromagnetic radiation and the means for transmitting radiation to the sample container, for selecting a narrow wavelength of radiation for transmission through said sample. 3. The optical detection system of claim 1, wherein a chopper means is positioned adjacent the source for transmitting a modulated source of optical radiation through the sample. 4. The optical detection system of claim 1, wherein the intensity of optical radiation transmitted to said transducer means is substantially of the same amount of flux as the intensity of radiation transmitted through said sample. 5. The optical detection system of claim 1, wherein the means for detecting the output of the transducer further includes: a detection circuit; and a voltage-to-frequency converter, wherein the output of said detection circuit frequency modulates the output of the voltage-to-frequency converter to produce a relatively noise-immune signal. 6. The optical detection system of claim 1 wherein turning of the first filter wheel is mechanically independent of positioning of the detection module with respect to the sample. 7. The optical detection system of claim 6 wherein the optical detection module comprises a plunger for turning said first filter wheel that is activated by said remote control means. 8. The optical detection system of claim 1 wherein the optical detection module further comprises means for releasably attaching to the remote control means. 9. The optical detection system of claim 1 wherein the optical detection module comprises a housing which encloses the first filter wheel and transducer means, wherein the housing comprises means for releasably attaching to the remote control means. 10. An optical detection module for use in an automated laboratory workstation, whereby the module is positioned with respect to a sample by the workstation for optical detection of the sample, said module comprising: means for releasably attaching the module to the workstation; a filter wheel having a plurality of optical filters; a transducer means responsive to light of wavelength as selected by one of said optical filters, said transducer means providing an output; and means for turning said filter wheel to select one of said optical filters to be positioned with respect to the transducer means, whereby said means for turning is automatically activated by the workstation. 11. The optical detection system of claim 10 wherein the means for turning is activated mechanically independent of positioning of the module with respect to the sample. 12. The optical detection system of claim 11 wherein the means for turning the filter wheel comprises a plunger which is activated by the workstation. 13. The optical detection system of claim 10 further comprising a housing which encloses the transducer means and filter wheel, whereby the housing is releasably attached to the workstation. 14. An automated laboratory workstation comprising: robotic means for performing a sequence of laboratory operations with respect to a receptacle; a radiation source; a receptacle positioned with respect to the radiation source; an optical detection module comprising: a filter wheel having a plurality of optical filters; a transducer means responsive to radiation of wavelength as selected by one of said optical filters, said transducer means providing an output; and means for turning said filter wheel to select one of said optical filters to be positioned with respect to the transducer means; whereby the robotic means positions the module with respect to the receptacle for detection of radiation from the radiation source as affected by a sample, and activates the means for turning to select one of said filters. 15. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 14 wherein the robotic means effects positioning of the receptacle between the radiation source and the module for detection of radiation from the radiation source as affected through the sample. 16. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 14 wherein the means for turning is activated mechanically independent of positioning of the module with respect to the receptacle. 17. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 16 wherein the means for turning comprises a plunger that is activated by robotic means. 18. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 14 wherein the module further comprises means for releasably attaching to the robotic means. 19. The automated laboratory workstation as in claim 14 wherein the module further comprises a housing which encloses the filter wheel and transducer means, wherein the housing comprises means for releasably attaching to the remote control means. 