Apparatus for taking dental x-rays used in performing subtraction radiography, includes an appliance for holding a dental x-ray film at a fixed position with respect to the teeth of a person, the appliance including a dental mold for holding the appliance in a fixed position on the teeth of the person, and a connecting member for holding the x-ray film in a fixed position relative to the teeth of the person and being mounted to the mold such that the x-ray film is positioned in the mouth at a set position; a magnetic source mounted at a fixed position in a room for producing a time-varying low frequency magnetic field; a magnetic sensor for sensing the magnetic field and for producing an output signal in response thereto, the magnetic sensor being mounted to the connecting member so as to be fixed in position relative to the x-ray film; an x-ray source for exposing the x-ray film; a robot manipulator having at least five degrees of freedom for moving the x-ray source in relation to the x-ray film, and having a free end with the x-ray source being fixed thereto; and a computer control for controlling the robot manipulator in response to the output signal from the sensor and in accordance with inverse kinematics so that the x-ray source is fixed in position with respect to the x-ray film, regardless of movement of the x-ray film.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for taking radiographs, comprising: appliance means for holding a radiographic film at a fixed position with respect to a body part; magnetic source means for producing a magnetic field, the magnetic source means being mounted at a fixed position in a room; magnetic sensor means for sensing said magnetic field and for producing an output signal in response thereto, said magnetic sensor means being fixed in position relative to said appliance means; radiography means for exposing the radiographic film; robot means for moving said radiography means in relation to the radiographic film; and control means for controlling said robot means in response to the output signal from said magnetic sensor means so that said radiography means is in a fixed position with respect to said radiographic film, regardless of movement of said radiographic film. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said appliance means includes dental mold means for holding said appliance means in a fixed position on teeth of a person and connecting means for holding said radiographic film and said magnetic sensor means in said fixed position relative to each other, said connecting means being mounted to said dental mold means. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said connecting means is mounted to said dental mold such that said radiographic film is positioned in the mouth of the person at a set position, and said sensor means is positioned outside of the mouth of the person. 4. Apparatus according to claim 2, further including means for detachably connecting said sensor means to said connecting means. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said magnetic source means includes means for producing a time-varying low frequency magnetic field. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said radiography means includes an x-ray source. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said robot means includes a robot manipulator capable of moving with at least five degrees of freedom, said robot manipulator having a free end, and said radiography means is fixed to the free end of said robot manipulator. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control means includes computer means for controlling said robot means in response to said output signal and in accordance with inverse kinematics. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said control means further includes sensor control means for interfacing said sensor means to said computer means, and robot control means for interfacing said computer means to said robot means. 10. Apparatus for taking dental radiographs, comprising: (a) appliance means for holding a radiographic film said appliance means including: (i) dental mold means for holding said appliance means in a fixed position on the teeth of the person, and (ii) connecting means for holding said radiographic film in a fixed position relative to the teeth of the person, said connecting means being mounted to said dental mold means such that said radiographic film is positioned in the mouth of the person at a set position; (b) magnetic source means for producing a time-varying low frequency magnetic field, said magnetic source means being mounted at a fixed position in a room; (c) magnetic sensor means for sensing said magnetic field and for producing an output signal in response thereto, said magnetic sensor means being mounted to said connecting means so as to be fixed in position relative to said radiographic film; (d) radiography means for exposing said radiographic film; (e) robot means for moving said radiography means in relation to said radiographic film, said robot means including a robot manipulator capable of moving with at least five degrees of freedom, said robot manipulator having a free end, and said radiography means being fixed to the free end of said robot manipulator; and (f) control means for controlling said robot means in response to said output signal from said magnetic sensor means so that said radiography means is in a fixed position with respect to said radiographic film, regardless of movement of said radiographic film. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, further including means for detachably connecting said sensor means to said connecting means. 12. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said magnetic source means includes means for producing a time-varying low frequency magnetic field. 13. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said radiography means includes an x-ray source. 14. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said control means includes computer means for controlling said robot means in response to said output signal and in accordance with inverse kinematics. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein said control means further includes sensor control means for interfacing said sensor means to said computer means, and robot control means for interfacing said computer means to said robot means. 16. Apparatus for taking dental radiographs, comprising: (a) appliance means for holding a radiographic film at a fixed position with respect to teeth of a person, ,, said appliance means including: (i) dental mold means for holding said appliance means in a fixed position on the teeth of the person, (ii) connecting means for holding said radiographic film in a fixed position relative to the teeth of the person, said connecting means being mounted to said dental mold means such that said radiographic film is positioned in the mouth of the person at a set position, and (iii) means for detachably connecting said sensor means to said connecting means; (b) magnetic source means for producing a time-varying low frequency magnetic field, said magnetic source means being mounted at a fixed position in a room; (c) magnetic sensor means for sensing said magnetic field and for producing an output signal in response thereto, said magnetic sensor means being mounted to said connecting means so as to be fixed in position relative to said radiographic film; (d) radiography means for exposing said radiographic film; (e) robot means for moving said radiography means in relation to said radiographic film, said robot means including a robot manipulator capable of moving with at least five degrees of freedom, said robot manipulator having a free end, and said radiography means being fixed to the free end of said robot manipulator; and (f) computer control means for controlling said robot means in response to said output signal from said magnetic sensor means and in accordance with inverse kinematics so that said radiography means is in a fixed position with respect to said radiographic film, regardless of movement of said radiographic film. 17. Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said radiography means includes an x-ray source. 18. Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said control means includes computer means for controlling said robot means in response to said output signal and in accordance with inverse kinematics. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said control means further includes sensor control means for interfacing said sensor means to said computer means, and robot control means for interfacing said computer means to said robot means. 