A probe for use in a coax-to-waveguide transition is uniformly coated with a dielectric material by inserting the probe through an elastic membrane covering a container of uncured RTV elastomer to thereby dip the probe. The membrane wipes excess elastomer from the probe during withdrawal, and seals the RTV from ambient air to thereby prevent its premature curing in the container. If moved sideways before withdrawal, the coating thickness can be made to favor one side over another. A magnetic block is fitted into a waveguide. A slot in the magnetic block is also filled with uncured RTV elastomer. The probe is inserted into the slot, embedding it in the uncured RTV. Upon curing, the probe is protected from high voltage arcing to the waveguide. A cured RTV elastomer washer is preassembled to the probe before dipping, to precisely fill the void between the connector base and the magnetic block with a like material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for coating the exterior of an elongated electrical conductor adapted for electromagnetic radiation with a thin layer of dielectric material, comprising the steps of: maintaining a container full of uncured room-temperature-vulcanizing (RTV) elastomer, said container having an aperture sealed by a thin elastic membrane whereby said elastomer tends to remain uncured; inserting said conductor through said membrane into said uncured elastomer to a predetermined depth, whereby at least a portion of said conductor is immersed in liquid elastomer; and removing said conductor wherein a thin coating of elastomer clings to said portion. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said membrane is selected to be one of a silicone sponge material and a latex membrane, and wherein, when said membrane is selected to be a latex membrane, a step of prepuncturing said membrane is performed before said inserting step, to thereby define a dilatable aperture. 3. A method according to claim 2 further comprising, when said latex membrane is selected during said selecting step, the further step of positioning said conductor so that the axis of elongation of said conductor is aligned with said dilatable aperture . 4. A method according to claim 2 wherein said inserting step is performed by axial motion of said conductor in a direction perpendicular to said membrane. 5. A method according to claim 2 wherein said inserting step is performed by motion of said conductor in a direction parallel to said axis of elongation. 6. A method according to claim 5 further comprising the step, before said removing step, of translating said conductor in a direction transverse to said axis of elongation, for thereby stretching said dilatable aperture, whereby said removing step causes the elastomer adhering to said conductor to be thicker on one side than on the other side. 7. A method according to claim 5 wherein said removing step is performed by a motion of said conductor in a direction parallel to said axis of elongation. 8. A method for assembling a coax-fed electromagnetic launcher to a magnetic phase shifter, said phase shifter including a magnetic block assembled into a waveguide, said magnetic block extending between first and second opposed walls of said waveguide, said magnetic block further including a slot formed in the side thereof, said slot also extending between said first and second opposed walls of said waveguide, said waveguide further including an aperture in one of said opposed walls of said waveguide, said aperture being located adjacent to and exposing an end of said slot, said launcher including an elongated probe adapted to fit through said aperture and to extend into said slot, said launcher also including a baseplate including an aperture through which said probe extends in an insulated and coaxial manner, said method for assembling comprising the steps of: inserting a hollow needle through said aperture and along said slot; injecting uncured elastomer through said needle while withdrawing said needle, thereby depositing said elastomer in said slot; inserting said probe through an elastic membrane into a vessel containing uncured elastomer to thereby wet and coat the surface of said probe with elastomer material; removing said probe from said membrane and vessel, whereby excess elastomer is wiped from the exterior of said probe, leaving it coated and wetted; and inserting said probe coated and wetted with elastomer through said aperture and into said slot in said magnetic block until said baseplate bottoms against the outer surface of said one of said waveguide walls. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein said step of inserting said probe through said aperture creates a cavity between said baseplate and said magnetic block, which cavity is bounded by the edge of said aperture, and further comprising the step of filling said cavity with elastomer. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said step of filling said cavity comprises the step of applying liquid elastomer to that portion of said magnetic block exposed by said aperture. 11. A method according to claim 10 wherein said step of filling said cavity comprises the step of flowing liquid elastomer through a hollow needle onto said exposed portion of said magnetic block. 12. A method according to claim 10 wherein said step of applying liquid elastomer is performed before said step of inserting said probe through said aperture and into said slot. 13. A method according to claim 9 wherein said step of filling said cavity comprises the step of placing a cured elastomer washer over said probe. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein said step of placing a washer over said probe is performed before said step of inserting said probe through an elastic membrane. 15. A method according to claim 8 wherein said step of inserting said probe into said slot is performed before said elastomer in said slot cures. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said step of inserting said probe into said slot is performed before curing of said liquid elastomer wetting said probe. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein said step of inserting said probe through said aperture creates a cavity between said baseplate and said magnetic block, said cavity being bounded by the edge of said aperture, and further comprising the step of filling said cavity with elastomer. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said step of filling said cavity comprises the step of applying liquid elastomer to that portion of said magnetic block exposed by said aperture 19. A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of inserting said probe into said slot is performed before curing of the liquid elastomer applied in said step of applying liquid elastomer to that portion of said magnetic block exposed by said aperture. 