A robotic surgical system (10) includes a multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm (14) having a surgical tool (22). The arm is coupled to a controller (24) for controllably positioning the surgical tool within a three dimensional coordinate system. The system further includes a safety monitoring processor (38) for determining the position of the surgical tool in the three dimensional coordinate system relative to a volumetric model. The volumetric model may be represented as a constructive solid geometry (CSG) tree data structure. The system further includes an optical tracking camera system (28,32) disposed for imaging a region of space that includes at least a portion of the manipulator arm. An output of the camera system is coupled to the processor (38) that processes the volumetric model for determining if the surgical tool is positioned outside of the volumetric model. The system further includes a strain gage (40) for detecting slippage in three dimensions between an immobilized tissue, such as bone, and a reference point (44). The system also includes multiple and redundant safety features for suspending a motion of the surgical tool to prevent the tool from operating outside of the predetermined volume of space.
Claims Having thus described our invention, what we claim as new, and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A surgical planning system, comprising: means for inputting first data specifying cross-sectional images of a region of tissue into which a device is to be implanted; means for inputting second data specifying a three dimensional representation of the device; and data processor means, responsive to inputs from an operator of the system and to the first data and the second data, for interactively superimposing a cross-sectional image of the three dimensional representation of the device to be implanted upon an operator selected cross-sectional image of the region of tissue, the data processor means including means for displaying superimposed cross-sectional images to the operator, the data processor means further including means for developing a surgical data file containing data for specifying a location of a quantity of tissue to be removed from the region of tissue in order to implant the device at an operator-selected location within the region of tissue. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the data processor means includes means for generating a volumetric model of the device and means for specifying coordinates for locating the volumetric model within a tissue-based coordinate system. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2 wherein the data processor means further includes means for locating images of predetermined reference points within the images of the region of tissue and for deriving the tissue-based coordinate system in accordance with the located images of the predetermined reference points. 4. A system as set forth in claim 2 and further comprising a robotic surgical system and means for outputting to the robotic surgical system the developed surgical data file and also for outputting to the robotic surgical system data descriptive of at least the volumetric model and the tissue-based coordinate system, the robotic surgical system comprising: multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm means including a surgical tool, the manipulator arm means being coupled to means for controllably positioning the surgical tool within a three dimensional surgical coordinate system, the means for controllably positioning the surgical tool being responsive to the developed surgical data file for removing the specified quantity of tissue with the surgical tool; and means for determining a position of the surgical tool in the three dimensional surgical coordinate system relative to the volumetric model, the determining means including means for transforming the tissue-based coordinate system into the surgical coordinate system for locating the volumetric model therein. 5. A method for operating a surgical planning system, comprising the steps of: inputting first data to the system for specifying cross-sectional images of a region of tissue into which a device is to be implanted; inputting second data to the system for specifying a three dimensional representation of the device to be implanted; in response to inputs from an operator of the system and in accordance with the inputted first data and the inputted second data, interactively superimposing cross-sectional images of the three dimensional representation of the device to be implanted upon selected cross-sectional images of the region of tissue at operator-selectable locations within the region of tissue while displaying the superimposed images to the operator; and developing a surgical data file containing data for specifying a location of a quantity of tissue to be removed from the region of tissue in order to implant the device at an operator-selected location within the region of tissue. 6. A method as set forth in claim 5 wherein the step of specifying includes steps of: generating a volumetric model of the device to be implanted; and specifying coordinates for locating the volumetric model within a tissue-based coordinate system. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the step of specifying further includes a step of locating images of predetermined reference points within the images of the region of tissue and deriving the tissue-based coordinate system in accordance with the located images of the predetermined reference points. 8. A method as set forth in claim 6 and further comprising a step of outputting to a robotic surgical system the developed surgical data file and also data descriptive of at least the volumetric model and the tissue-based coordinate system. 9. A method as set forth in claim 8 and further comprising a step of operating the robotic surgical system in accordance with the outputted surgical data file and also the data descriptive of at least the volumetric model and the tissue-based coordinate system so as to remove a volume of tissue having a shape that corresponds to a shape of the device to be implanted. 10. A surgical planning and execution system, comprising: means for inputting first data specifying cross-sectional images of a region of tissue into which a device is to be implanted; means for inputting second data specifying a three dimensional representation of the device; and data processor means, responsive to input from an operator of the system and to the first data and the second data, for interactively superimposing a cross-sectional image of the three dimensional representation of the device to be implanted upon an operator selected cross-sectional image of the region of tissue, the data processor means including means for displaying superimposed cross-sectional images to the operator, the data processor means further including means for developing a surgical data file containing data for specifying a location of a quantity of tissue to be removed from the region of tissue in order to implant the device at an operator-selected location within the region of tissue; and a robotic surgical system, the robotic surgical system comprising multiple degree of freedom manipulator arm means including a surgical tool, the manipulator arm means being coupled to means for controllably positioning the surgical tool within a three dimensional surgical coordinate system; wherein the means for controllably positioning the surgical tool is responsive to the developed surgical data file for removing the specified quantity of tissue with the surgical tool. 