A machine for forming a metallic tubular section in which the tubular section is located, retained, has at least one end formed, filled with fluid that is then pressurized within the tube section, and bend formed into a predetermined shape, all at a single station of the machine. A second station, either coupled with or independent from the first station functions to locate a tube section, retain it, cut off a portion of the tube section, form at least one end of the tube section, and provide for removal of the tube section therefrom. The tube sections are preferably crossover fittings. The present invention further comprises a method of manufacturing a full crossover fitting and a method of manufacturing a half crossover fitting.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A machine for forming a metallic tubular section, said machine comprising: first means for locating said tubular section thereupon, first means for retaining said tubular section therewithin, means for filling said tubular section with fluid and for then applying pressure to said fluid, first end forming means for expanding an end of said tubular section, means for forming at least one centrally located bend within said tubular section; and said first locating means, said first retaining means, said first end forming means, said fluid filling and pressurizing means, and said bending means, all being located proximate to one another such that said tubular section is generally at one location at a first station. 2. The machine of claim 1 wherein said first locating means comprises a lower die having a cavity extending toward a side thereof, said lower die having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross for placement of said tubular section thereupon. 3. The machine of claim 2 further comprising: a lower die plate for retaining said lower die, a shuttle mechanism for moving said lower die plate; whereby said shuttle mechanism provides accessible loading and unloading of said tubular section from said lower die. 4. The machine of claim 3 wherein said first retention means comprises the combination of an upper die and said lower die, said upper die having a cavity extending toward a side thereof and having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said upper die being movable after said lower die is shuttled to its inward position, whereby said upper die and said lower die cooperatively act to retain portions of said tubular section when said upper die is closed downward upon said lower die. 5. The machine of claim 4 wherein said bend forming means comprises a forming die having a forwardmost edge with a generally semi-circular shape, whereby when said forming die is forcibly inserted into said cavities of said upper and said lower dies, said forming die compressibly bends a portion of said tubular section against said channel of said upper and said lower dies. 6. The machine of claim 5 wherein said pressurized fluid is a water emulsifiable oil. 7. The machine of claim 1 wherein a first end forming means comprises a first pair of punches for being forcibly inserted into each end of said tubular section, whereby said first punches expand each of said tubular section ends against a predetermined cylindrical shape created by said channels of said upper and said lower dies. 8. The machine of claim 7 wherein said first end forming means forms a cup section at each end of said tubular section. 9. The machine of claim 8 Wherein said fluid filling and fluid pressurizing means are cooperatively located within said first end forming means, and wherein said fluid filling and pressurizing means inserts fluid within said tubular section and applies pressure to said fluid after said first end forming means is inserted within each end of said tubular section. 10. The machine of claim 9 wherein said tubular section is a full crossover fitting. 11. The machine of claim 1 further comprising: second means for locating said tubular section thereupon, second means for retaining said tubular section therewithin, second means for forming an end of said tubular section; and said second locating means, said second retention means, and said second end forming means, all being located proximate to one another such that said tubular section is generally at a second location on said machine throughout these processes, said second location comprising a second station which is proximately distinct from said first station. 12. The machine of claim 11 wherein said second locating means comprises a stationary die with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said channel being configured to mate with first outside portion of said tubular section. 13. The machine of claim 11 wherein said second retention means comprises a movable die having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said channel is configured to mate with a second outside portion of said tubular section, whereby said movable die is operable to be compressed against said stationary die, thereby retaining said tubular section therebetween. 14. The machine of claim 11 wherein said second end forming means comprises a pair of second punches that are operable to be forcibly inserted into said tubular section's ends, thereby forcing the walls of said tubular section's ends against the inside of said channel created by said stationary die and said moving die to form cups thereupon. 15. The machine of claim 11 wherein: a cutting means is located proximate to said second locating means, said second retention means, and said second end forming means, said cutting means comprises a means for notching a portion of said tubular section at a predetermined location and a means for shearing the portion of said tubular section previously notched, whereby said tubular section has an end portion cut therefrom thereby creating a half crossover fitting. 16. The machine of claim 11 further comprising a means for automatically unloading said tubular section from said second station. 17. The machine of claim 16 wherein said second station unloading means comprises an ejector pin within said stationary die, and a chute generally between and below said stationary die and said moving die, whereby said ejector pin is operable to push said tubular section out from said stationary die where said tubular section will gravitationally drop down into said chute. 18. The machine of claim 11 comprising a robotic means for unloading and transferring said tubular section from said first station to a position within said second station. 19. A machine for forming a metallic tubular section in a first station comprising: a lower die which is horizontally movable along a shuttle mechanism, said lower die having a cavity extending toward a side thereof and having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, an upper die being vertically movable, said upper die having a cavity extending toward a side thereof and having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said upper die and said lower die being operable to locate and retain a tubular section cooperatively therebetween, at least one first punch located at an end of said tubular section, said first punch being insertable within said end of said tubular section, said first punch having a means for filling fluid into said end of said tubular section and for pressurizing said fluid, a bend forming die having a forwardmost edge with a generally semi-circular shape, whereby when said bend forming die is forcibly inserted into said cavities of said upper and said lower dies, said bend forming die compressibly bends a portion of said tubular section against said channel of said upper and said lower dies; whereby said lower die, said upper die, said first punch, said means for filling and pressurizing said fluid, and said bend forming die, all cooperatively acting in a single station to produce a full crossover fitting. 20. The machine of claim 19 wherein a pair of said first punches forms expanded cup sections upon each end of said tubular section prior to insertion of said bend forming die. 21. The machine of claim 19 further having a second station comprising: a stationary die having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said channel matching a first outside portion of said tubular section, a movable die having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said channel matching a second outside portion of said tubular section, said movable die being forcibly compressed against said stationary die, thereby locating and retaining said tubular section cooperatively therebetween, a pair of second punches acting to form the ends of said tubular section; and said stationary die, said movable die, and said secondary punch, all being located proximate to one another such that said tubular section is generally at a second location on said machine throughout these processes, said second station being proximately distinct from said first station, whereby a half crossover fitting is produced. 22. The machine of claim 21 wherein there is a means for cutting off a portion of said tubular section prior to insertion of said pair of second punches. 23. A machine for producing a metallic tubular section, said machine comprising: means for locating said tubular section thereupon, means for retaining said tubular section therewithin, means for forming an end of said tubular section, said locating means, said retention means, and said end forming means, all being located proximate to one another such that said tubular section is generally at one location on said machine throughout these processes; and means for cutting off a portion of said tubular section therefrom, said cutting means comprising means for notching a portion of said tubular section at a predetermined location and means for shearing the portion of said tubular section previously notched. 24. The machine of claim 23 wherein said locating means comprises a stationary die having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said channel being configured to mate with a first outside portion of said tubular section. 25. The machine of claim 23 wherein: said retention means comprises a movable die having a channel with a semi-circular cross sectional shape centrally located thereacross, said channel being configured to mate with a second outside portion of said tubular section, whereby said movable die is operable to be compressed against said stationary die, thereby retaining said tubular section therebetween. 26. The machine of claim 23 wherein said end forming means comprises a punch that is operable to be forcibly inserted into said tubular section's cut end, thereby forcing the walls of said tubular section's cut end against the inside of said channel created by said stationary die and said moving die to remove any deformations caused by said cutting means. 27. The machine of claim 23 further comprising means for automatically unloading said tubular section from a second station wherein said cutting means is located. 28. A method of producing a crossover fitting which comprises: (a) locating said tubular section, within a die at a single station, said tubular section having been precut from a continuous tube, (b) retaining said tubular section within a die set at said single station, (c) filling said tubular section with fluid at said single station, (d) pressurizing said fluid within said tubular section at said single station; (e) bending a portion of said tubular section with a bend forming die at said single station; and (f) expanding at least one end of said tubular section at said single station. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising the additional steps at a second station: (a) locating said tubular section into a second die, (b) retaining said tubular section within a second die set, (c) forming an end of said tubular section; and (d) unloading said tubular section from said die set, thereby creating a full crossover fitting. 30. The method of claim 29 further having the additional steps of notching said tubular section and shearing the notched portion of said tubular section, thereby creating a half crossover fitting. 