A safety operation system for a manipulator is provided with a first operation section. The first operation section has a first movable section, and outputs a first operation signal representing the position and angle of the first movable section. A failure detecting section detects failure of the first operation section on the basis of the first operation signal, and outputs a detection signal. When failure of the first operation section is not detected, a conversion section converts the first operation signal into a control signal. A second operation section has a second movable section which moves in accordance with movement of the first movable section, and outputs a second operation signal generated in accordance with movement of the second movable section. A comparison section compares the control signal with the second operation signal, and outputs a deviation signal used for opening the second movable section. A management section receives the detection signal, and supplies the comparison section with a signal for making deviation signal zero, thereby prohibiting the second movable section from being driven. A display section displays data on the failure of the first operation section and/or data on the current position of the first movable section, on the basis of a signal output from the management section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A safety operation system for a manipulator, comprising: first operation means, having a first movable section which moves in response to an operator's manual operation, for outputting a first operation signal representing a position and an angle of the first movable section; failure detecting means for detecting failure of the first operation means on the basis of the first operation signal supplied from the first operation means and for outputting a detection signal representing failure detection; conversion means for converting the first operation signal supplied from the first operation means into a control signal, when failure of the first operation means is not detected by the failure detecting means; second operation means, having a second movable section which moves in accordance with movement of the first movable section of the first operation means, for outputting a second operation signal generated in accordance with movement of the second movable section; comparison means for comparing the control signal supplied from the conversion means with the second operation signal supplied from the second operation means and for outputting a deviation signal used for operating the second movable section of the second operation means; management means, responsive to the detection signal supplied from the failure detecting means, for supplying the comparison means with a signal which makes the deviation signal zero, thereby prohibiting the second movable section of the second operation means from being driven; and display means for displaying at least one of data on the failure of the first operation means and data on a current position of the first movable section of the first operation means, on the basis of a signal output from the management means. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said display means is located adjacent to the first operation means. 3. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: teaching instruction generating means for generating teaching instructions; and teaching information storage means for storing the first operation signal from the first operation means as teaching information, in response to the teaching instructions from the teaching information generating means, thereby preparing a series of operating programs. 4. A system according to claim 3, further comprising automatic driving means for reading out the operating programs from the teaching information storage means and for permitting the second operation means to automatically operate. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein said first operation means includes a rotatable encoder. 6. A system according to claim 5, further comprising degree of freedom-switching means for switching each of degrees of freedom of the encoder from one value to another. 7. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: teaching instruction generating means for generating teaching instructions; and accommodating means for accommodating said teaching instruction generating means, said first operation means and said display means. 