A dynamic sweeping mechanism which drives a line-scan camera's field of view in a direction which is substantially perpendicular to the scan direction. The operation of the dynamic sweeping mechanism enables the line scan camera to make multiple scans across a target, providing the image processor the necessary image information to generate a two-dimensional image of the object as well as positioning the line scan camera at an optimal angle of view to obtain accurate single scan image data. The scan line angle of view is dynamically swept in a rotational manner about an axis of rotation which is parallel to the scan line under the control of either a dedicated drive mechanism or coupled to pre-existing drive mechanisms in the robotic hand mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use with a robotic arm mechanism and a line scan camera for dynamically sweeping a scan line of the line scan camera across an object for image detection, comprising: pivot means for pivotally coupling the line scan camera to the robotic arm mechanism and for allowing said line scan camera to pivot about an axis parallel to the scan line such that said scan line sweeps through an arc perpendicular to the scan line; drive means, coupled to said pivot means and the line scan camera, for pivoting the line scan camera through said arc; and latching means, coupled to said pivot means, for securing the line scan camera at a desired angular position and for unlatching the line scan camera from said secured position, thereby controlling the ability of said drive means to pivot said line scan camera through said arc. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said pivot means further comprises: mounting bracket for coupling a light assembly to the line scan camera; extension means for mechanically supporting the line scan camera and said light assembly adjacent to the robotic arm mechanism; and release catch plate configured to rotationally couple said mounting bracket to said extension means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm assembly includes a drive mechanism and wherein said drive means comprises: coupling means for selectively coupling said pivot means to said drive mechanism. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said drive means comprises: a motor configured to drive the line scan camera through said arc. 5. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein said drive means further comprises: a camera sweeping spring coupled to said pivot means; and a return damper configured to control the force applied by said camera sweeping spring to said pivot means, wherein the operation of said camera sweeping spring and said return damper are controlled by said latching means. 6. The mechanism of claim 3, wherein drive mechanism of said robotic arm mechanism is a motor and pulley drive system; and wherein said coupling means includes a drive pulley coupled to and rotationally driven by said motor and pulley drive system. 7. The mechanism of claim 3, wherein said coupling means further comprises: linkage means for coupling a drive pulley to said pivot means and for converting an angular rotation of said motor and pulley drive system to an angular rotation of said pivot means around said axis. 8. An robotic hand assembly for use in an automated cartridge system, comprising: a robotic hand mechanism; a line scan camera configured to sweep along a scan line to define an angle of view; and a dynamic sweeping mechanism for sweeping said angle of view through a displacement substantially perpendicular to said scan line including, pivot means for mechanically coupling the line scan camera to the robotic hand mechanism and for allowing said line scan camera to pivot about an axis parallel to the scan line such that said scan line sweeps through an arc perpendicular to the scan line, and latching means, coupled to said pivot means, for securing the line scan camera at a desired angular position and for unlatching the line scan camera from said secured position. 9. The robotic hand assembly of claim 8, wherein said robotic hand mechanism comprises a reach drive system configured to extend and retract a gripper mechanism to retrieve and replace said tape cartridges in said tape storage system, said objects including tape cartridge identifiers and positional targets. 10. The robotic hand assembly of claim 9, wherein said dynamic sweeping mechanism further comprises: drive means, coupled to said pivot means and the line scan camera, for pivoting the line scan camera through said arc. 11. The robotic hand assembly of claim 10, wherein said pivot means further comprises: mounting bracket for coupling a light assembly to the line scan camera; extension means for mechanically supporting the line scan camera and said light assembly adjacent to the robotic hand mechanism; and release catch plate configured to rotationally couple said mounting bracket to said extension means. 12. The robotic hand assembly of claim 10, wherein said latching means enables said coupling means to pivot said line scan camera through said arc. 13. The robotic hand assembly of claim 10, wherein the robotic hand assembly includes a drive mechanism and wherein said drive means comprises: coupling means for selectively coupling said pivot means to said drive mechanism. 14. The robotic hand assembly of claim 10, wherein said drive means comprises: a motor configured to drive the line scan camera through said arc. 15. The robotic hand assembly of claim 12, wherein said drive means further comprises: a camera sweeping spring coupled to said pivot means, said camera sweeping spring configured to apply a force to said pivot means; and a return damper configured to control said force applied by said camera sweeping spring to said pivot means, wherein the operation of said camera sweeping spring and said return damper are controlled by said latching means. 16. The robotic hand assembly of claim 13, wherein drive mechanism of said robotic hand mechanism is a motor and pulley drive system; and wherein said coupling means includes a drive pulley coupled to and rotationally driven by said motor and pulley drive system. 17. The robotic hand assembly claim 16, wherein said coupling means further comprises: linkage means for coupling said drive pulley to said pivot means and for converting an angular rotation of said motor and pulley drive system to an angular rotation of said pivot means around said axis. 