A method for transferring articles between containers to vary the mix of articles in the containers. A plurality of containers are moved to a mixing station and apparatus including a robot removes selected articles from the containers and places them into other of the containers to provide the desired mix of articles. In the arrangement disclosed, the articles are cups and the method is employed to change the color mix of the cups in the containers.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of changing the mix of articles in a plurality of containers, each container accommodating a plurality of such articles, said method comprising the steps of: conveying a plurality of containers to a mixing station, each of said plurality of containers containing a plurality of articles having physical characteristics differing from the physical characteristics of the plurality of articles in the other of said plurality of containers at said mixing station; while the plurality of containers are at said mixing station, removing a predetermined number of articles from each of at least two of said plurality of containers, said removal step including clamping the articles to be removed and lifting said articles from said containers while clamped; after said removal step, transporting the removed articles after said transporting step, inserting the removed articles into containers differing from the respective containers from which the articles were removed to change the mix of articles in the containers in which the articles are inserted, and prior to clamping of said plurality of articles, engaging said plurality of articles in each of said plurality of containers to move said plurality of articles to predetermined locations within said plurality of containers. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said predetermined number of articles are substantially simultaneously removed from each of at least two of said plurality of containers. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein said removed articles are substantially simultaneously transported and subsequently substantially simultaneously inserted into containers. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of articles differ in color and wherein the steps of said method are cooperable to provide a mix of colors in said containers. 