An automated food preparation system having a continuously rotatable annular segmented cooking area, a food feeding system, and an industrial robot, all of which are controlled by a pre-programmed programmable controller wherein an operator provides input to the programmable controller selecting each food item to be cooked and the programmable controller commands the industrial robot to select the food item, place the food item on the cooking area for cooking, turn the food item at the proper time, and remove the food item from the cooking area.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for automatically cooking a multiplicity of individual food items having an annular cooking area, a feeding system, a robot, and a programmable controller comprising a) the annular cooking area having multiple removable segments formed thereon; and a means for heating said cooking area to a settable temperature; b) the feeding system having a dispenser magazine with a plurality of food carriers and a means for accepting a plurality of food carriers, each of said food carriers containing a multiplicity of food items and a means for presenting the individual food carriers for access by the robot to access each individual food item: c) the robot having a plurality of individually selectable and attachable end effectors each of said end effectors adapted for selecting and obtaining the individual food items, manipulating the individual food items from the feeding system during cooking, or removing each of said multiplicity of individual food items from said cooking area; d) the programmable controller for settably controlling, coordinating and synchronizing the operation and heating of the rotating annular cooking area, the feeding system and the robot whereby the programmable controller receives the input from an operator selecting a food item for cooking and commands the robot to select and cook the food item while maintaining control over the robot so that the programmable controller instructs the robot to turn, manipulate, or remove the selected food item at selectable predetermined times. 2. The invention as described in claim 1, wherein the annular cooking area further comprises a means for rotating said annular cooking area about a central axis. 3. The invention as described in claim 2, wherein the means for rotating said cooking area comprises a motor controlled responsive to a signal from the programmable controller for continuously rotating said grill at a rate of between ten and forty minutes per revolution. 4. The invention as described in claim 2, wherein the means for rotating said cooking area comprises a motor controlled responsive to a signal from the programmable controller for incrementally rotating said grill at a rate of between five and forty-five degrees per increment. 5. The invention as described in claim 1, wherein the food feeding system is operable responsive to the programmable controller. 6. The invention as described in claim 1, wherein the robot has a movable arm and the food feeder system means for presenting the individual food carriers has a bell crank and the food feeder system means for presenting the individual food carriers is operated by movements of the bell crank by the robot arm. 7. The invention as described in claim 1, wherein the programmable controller is a personal computer. 8. An apparatus for automatically cooking a multiplicity of individual food items comprising a) a rotating annular cooking area having multiple removable segments formed thereon; a means for rotating said cooking area; and a means for heating said cooking area to a settable temperature; b) a feeding system having a dispenser magazine and a plurality of food carriers, each of said food carriers being rectangular in shape and having first and second edges located along the length thereof, each of said food carriers further being bifurcated into a feeder tray and a supply tray; the supply tray having a plurality of food receptacles formed therein for receiving the individual food items; each feeder tray having a plurality of transfer holders formed thereon, the transfer holders further located on each feeder tray so as to mate with the food receptacles on each supply tray, each feeder tray further having a pair of recesses formed upon both the first and second edge thereof, the dispenser being rectangular in shape having an open interior for receiving the plurality of food carriers; the dispenser further having a sequencing tray feeder, the tray feeder having an externally operable actuation means, a means for raising and lowering said food carriers responsive to the actuation means, and a means for sequentially retaining said trays responsive to each operation of said actuation means; c) a robot having at least one end effector, each end effector adapted for selecting and obtaining the individual food items from the feeding system, manipulating the individual food items during cooking on the cooking area, and removing each of said multiplicity of individual food items from said cooking area; d) a programmable controller for settably controlling, coordinating and synchronizing the operation of rotating annular cooking area, the feeding system and the robot. 9. The invention as described in claim 8, wherein the means for rotating said cooking area comprises a motor controlled responsive to a signal from the programmable controller for continuously rotating said grill at a rate of between ten and forty minutes per revolution. 10. The invention as described in claim 8, wherein the means for rotating said cooking area comprises a motor controlled responsive to a signal from the programmable controller for incrementally rotating said grill at a rate of between five and forty-five degrees per increment. 11. The invention as described in claim 8, wherein the food feeding system is operable responsive to the programmable controller. 12. The invention as described in claim 8, wherein the robot has a movable arm and the food feeder system means for presenting the individual food carriers has a bell crank and the food feeder system means for presenting the individual food carriers is operated by movements of the bell crank by the robot arm. 13. The invention as described in claim 8, wherein the programmable controller is a personal computer. 