The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of tracking position of a surgical instrument inside a patient's body comprising steps of: inserting a first surgical instrument into a patient's body, the first instrument having a visual target thereon; inserting a separate second surgical instrument into the patient's body, the second instrument having means for transmitting an image out of the patient's body; and moving at least one of the surgical instruments automatically based upon movement of the other surgical instrument to substantially continuously transmit an image of the visual target by the means for transmitting. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the step of moving comprises keeping the visual target at a predetermined position in the image. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the visual target is an energy emitting beacon and the step of moving comprises a computer connected to the second instrument and, the means for transmitting automatically moves the second instrument based upon energy from the beacon being viewed by the means for transmitting. 4. A method of performing surgery inside a patient's body, the method comprising steps of: inserting a first surgical instrument into a patient's body, the first instrument having a visual target thereon; inserting a second surgical instrument into a patient's body, the second instrument having means for transmitting an image out of the patient's body; placing the first instrument at a selected position relative to the patient's anatomy; observing, by a controller connected to the means for transmitting, an image of the visual target that is transmitted by the means for transmitting; and moving, by the controller, at least one of the surgical instruments automatically based upon an observed position of the visual target. 5. A method as in claim 4 wherein the visual target includes at least one beacon that emits energy, the step of observing having the movement controller observe the energy emitted by the beacon. 6. A method as in claim 4 wherein the step of moving automatically moves the surgical instrument over a path of previously observed positions. 7. A method as in claim 4 further comprising determining a position of a selected anatomical feature of the patient's anatomy by the controller based upon, at least partially, the image of the visual target observed by the controller. 8. A method as in claim 7 further comprising the controller modifying, through image processing, images transmitted by the means for transmitting based upon the position of the selected anatomical feature. 9. A method as in claim 7 further comprising the controller automatically determining a path for the first surgical instrument to travel from a present position of the first surgical instrument to the selected anatomical feature. 10. A method of surgery comprising steps of: inserting a first surgical instrument into a patient's body, the first instrument having a target thereon; inserting a separate second surgical instrument into the patient's body, the second instrument having means for transmitting an image out of the patient's body; transmitting an image from inside the patient's body by the transmitting means to a controller, the image including the target; and automatically moving, by the controller, the second surgical instrument when the target is moved to maintain position of the target at a desired location in the image transmitted by the transmitting means. 11. A method as in claim 10 wherein the target includes at least one beacon that emits energy, the step of automatically moving comprising the controller monitoring the position of the energy emitted from the beacon in the image transmitted by the transmitting means. 