A system and method are provided for establishing the feed rate of a workpiece along a feed path with respect to a machine device. First and second sensors each having first and second sensing electrodes which are electrically isolated from the workpiece are positioned above, and in proximity to the desired surfaces of the workpiece along a feed path. An electric field is developed between the first and second sensing electrodes of each sensor and capacitance signals are developed which are indicative of the contour of the workpiece. First and second image signals representative of the contour of the workpiece along the feed path are developed by an image processor. The time delay between corresponding portions of the first and second image signals are then used to determine the feed rate based upon the separation of the first and second sensors and the amount of time between corresponding portions of the first and second image signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring a feed rate of a workpiece into machining means comprising the steps of: (a) positioning first and second sensors, each including first and second sensing electrodes, separated by a predetermined distance along a feed path and positioned above, and in proximity to said workpiece; (b) developing first and second electric fields between first and second sensing electrodes of said first and second sensors, respectively; (c) feeding said workpiece into said machining means along the feed path; (d) sensing any effects in said first and second electric fields produced by said workpiece being disposed within said first and second electric fields; (e) sequentially producing first and second image signals representative of the contour of said workpiece along the feed path in response to said step (d); (f) measuring the amount of time between corresponding portions of said first and second image signals sequentially produced at said step (e); and (g) determining said feed rate in response to the amount of time measured at said step (f) based on said predetermined distance separating said first and second sensors. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said first and second sensors are preview sensors provided on a preview side of a machining device of the machining means. 3. A system for measuring a feed rate of a workpiece into machining means, comprising: first and second sensors, each including first and second sensing electrodes, separated by a predetermined distance along a feed path and being positioned above and in proximity to said workpiece; field generating means for generating first and second electric fields between the first and second, sensing electrodes of said first and second sensors, respectively; means for feeding said workpiece into said machining means along said feed path; field sensing means for sensing any effects in said first and second electric fields produced by said workpiece being disposed within said first and second electric fields; image processing means for sequentially producing first and second image signals representative of the contour of said workpiece along the feed path in response to said field sensing means; time measuring means for measuring the amount of time that elapses between corresponding portions of said first image signal and said second image signal sequentially produced by said image processing means; and feed rate determining means for determining said feed rate in response to the amount of time measured by said time measuring means based on said predetermined distance separating said first and second preview sensors. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said first and second sensors are preview sensors provided on a preview side of a machining device of the machining means. 