A specimen carrier is designed for transporting specimen tubes throughout an automatic laboratory conveyance system. The specimen carrier includes a generally rectilinear carrier body with a forward face having an identification zone delimited thereon. An identification code is marked in the identification zone so as to permit mechanical sensing and identification of the carrier on a conveyor system. A plurality of holes of various diameters and depths are provided in the top surface of the carrier to receive specimen tubes of various types. The deepest holes are located centrally, so that the carrier is stable while retaining specimens therein. A groove is formed in the top surface of the carrier body which extends between the specimen tube holes, so as to communicate any fluid spilling from a test tube to the other empty holes in the specimen carrier, thereby retaining the fluid within the body of the carrier. A special vertical slot is provided in one of the vertical holes, utilizing a pair of opposing vertical channels, so as to retain a specimen slide in the specimen carrier.
Claims I claim: 1. A specimen carrier for transporting a laboratory specimen carried within a specimen tube or a rectangular specimen slide, comprising: a carrier body having a forward face and opposing rearward face, a top surface and opposing bottom surface, a right end wall and opposing left end wall; specimen tube carrying means on said carrier body for carrying at least one specimen tube in a generally upright position and with an upper end of the specimen tube located at a predetermined height above the top surface of said carrier body; and said specimen tube carrying means including a first vertical hole formed in the upper surface of said carrier body having a predetermined diameter and depth so as to receive a predetermined specimen tube partially therein with an upper end located a predetermined distance above the carrier body top surface; specimen slide carrying means on said carrier body for carrying at least one specimen slide in a generally vertical position with an upper end of the specimen slide located at a predetermined height above the top surface of said carrier body; and said specimen slide carrying means including a pair of opposed, vertically-oriented channels formed diametrically along walls of said first vertical hole. 2. The specimen carrier of claim 1, wherein said specimen carrier tube carrying means includes a second vertical hole formed in the top surface of the carrier body, spaced from the first hole, having a predetermined diameter and depth so as to receive a predetermined specimen tube partially therein with an upper end located a predetermined distance above the carrier body top surface; wherein the first and second holes have different depths to receive different length specimen tubes, and wherein upper ends of specimen tubes located within the first and second hole are located at substantially the same distance above the carrier body top surface. 3. The specimen carrier of claim 1, wherein said channels extend downwardly a predetermined distance so as to receive a predetermined slide therein with a top edge located a predetermined distance above the carrier body top surface. 4. The specimen carrier of claim 1, wherein said first and second holes have different depths to receive different length specimen tubes with top ends of the specimen tubes located at substantially the same distance above the carrier body top surface. 5. The specimen carrier of claim 4, further comprising a third vertical hole formed in the top surface of the carrier body, spaced from the first and second holes, having a predetermined diameter and depth so as to receive a predetermined specimen to be partially therein, said third hole having a different depth than said first and second holes to receive a predetermined specimen tube with a top end located at substantially the same distance above the carrier body top surface as specimen tubes in the first and second holes, and wherein the hole having the greatest depth is located intermediate the other two holes and generally centrally between the ends of the carrier body. 6. A specimen carrier for transporting a laboratory specimen carried within a specimen tube, comprising: a carrier body having a forward face and opposing rearward face, a top surface and opposing bottom surface, a right end wall and opposing left end wall; and a first vertical hole formed in the top surface of said carrier body having a predetermined diameter and depth so as to receive a predetermined specimen tube partially therein; a second vertical hole formed in the top surface of the carrier body, spaced from the first hole, having a predetermined diameter and depth so as to receive a predetermined specimen tube partially therein; said first and second holes being enclosed from the top surface to their full depths, to retain fluid therein; and a groove formed in the top surface of the carrier body and extending between said first and second holes to cause fluid within one hole to flow to the other hole without leaving the body of the carrier. 7. The specimen carrier of claim 6, wherein the top surface is chamfered around each hole, and said groove extends between the chamfered portions of the holes. 