There is disclosed an optical fiber switching device having a coupling board comprising a plurality of first optical fibers connected to one surface of the coupling board in the arrangement to one surface of the coupling board, a plurality of second optical fibers connected to the another surface of the coupling board, an optical fiber length adjusting unit for handling surplus portions of the second optical fibers and switching unit for pulling out any one of the second optical fibers selected from the plural second optical fibers from the another surface of the connecting board and for connecting the any one optical fiber to different switching position of the another surface of the connecting board to coupling the any one optical fiber with any one of the first optical fibers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical fiber switching device comprising: a coupling board for optically coupling a selected one of a plurality of second optical fibers to a selected one of a plurality of first optical fibers, the coupling board having a first surface connected to the plurality of first optical fibers, and a second surface which opposes the first surface and is connected to the plurality of second optical fibers; means including an optical fiber length adjusting unit for handling surplus portions of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers; partition means for dividing the second surface of the coupling board into a plurality of rows; and switching means for changing a connecting position of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers to a desired position so that the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers are optically connected with the selected one of the plurality of first optical fibers by the coupling board. 2. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 1, wherein the coupling board has a plurality of connectors arranged in m rows.times.n columns, each of the connectors traversing from the first surface of the coupling board to the second surface of the coupling board, and wherein m and n are greater than 0. 3. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 1, wherein ends of the plurality of first optical fibers are connected to the connectors proximate to the first surface of the coupling board, and ends of the plurality of second optical fibers are connected to the connectors proximate to the second surface of the coupling board. 4. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 1, wherein the coupling board has a plurality of connectors, each of the plurality of first optical fibers having a first optical connector, each of the plurality of second optical fibers having a second optical connector, the plurality of connectors being adapted to have a selected one of the first optical connectors connected thereto proximate to the first surface, and the plurality of connectors being adapted to have a selected one of the second optical connectors connected thereto proximate to the second surface. 5. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 4, wherein a part of each of the second optical connectors protrudes from the second surface of the coupling board when the second optical connector is inserted into a selected one of the connectors of the coupling board. 6. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber length adjusting unit comprises a plurality of optical fiber length adjusting blocks; the optical fiber length adjusting unit is disposed proximate to the second surface of the coupling board; and the optical fiber length adjusting unit feeds the plurality of second optical fibers to the second surface of the coupling board. 7. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 6, wherein the optical fiber length adjusting blocks are stacked in a horizontal direction with respect to the first and second surfaces of the coupling board. 8. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 6, wherein each of the optical fiber length adjusting blocks includes a pair of rotatable reels on which the surplus portion of a corresponding one of the plurality of second optical fibers is wound. 9. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 8, wherein each of the optical fiber length adjusting blocks includes a flexible member for spacing each of the rotatable reels of the pair of rotatable reels from each other. 10. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 1, wherein the partition means comprises a plurality of U-shaped rods, and each of the U-shaped rods is disposed on the second surface of the coupling board. 11. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 10, wherein the U-shaped rods are disposed along each row of the second surface of the coupling board, thereby dividing the second surface of the coupling board in m rows, and wherein m is greater than 0. 12. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 1, wherein the switching means includes a robotic switching mechanism disposed which is disposed proximate to the coupling board. 13. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 12, wherein the robotic switching mechanism comprises: a pair of X-directional screw rods disposed in parallel with respect to each other and perpendicular with respect to the plurality of rows of the second surface of the coupling board; a pair of X-directional nuts, each x-directional nut being supported by one of the X-directional screw rods and being movable along the X-directional screw rod; a rotatable Z-directional screw rod disposed between the pair of X-directional screw rods; a Z-directional nut supported by the Z-directional screw rod and being movable along the Z-directional screw rod; an arm portion supported by the Z-directional nut and being movable in a vertical direction with respect to the Z-directional screw rod; and a hand portion disposed on the arm portion for holding a part of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers. 14. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 13, wherein each of X-directional screw rods includes a round rod member, and each round rod member has a screw groove formed thereon. 15. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 13, wherein each of the X-directional nuts has a threaded hole through which one of the X-direction screw rods is placed. 16. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 13, wherein the Z-directional screw rod includes a round rod member, and the round rod member has a screw groove formed thereon. 17. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 13, wherein the Z-directional nut has a threaded hole through which the Z-directional screw rod is placed. 18. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 13, wherein the pair of X-directional screw rods and the Z-directional screw rod are each independently rotatable. 19. An optical fiber switching device according to claim 13, wherein the hand portion includes a U-shaped member. 20. An optical fiber switching method for using a switching device having a coupling board for optically coupling a selected one of a plurality of second optical fibers to a selected one of a plurality of first optical fibers, an optical fiber length adjusting unit for handling surplus portions of the selectd one of the plurality of second optical fibers, partition members for dividing the coupling board into a plurality of rows, and a robotic switching mechanism for changing a connecting position of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers to a desired position, the robotic switching mechanism having a pair of X-directional screw rods disposed in parallel with respect to each other and perpendicular with respect to a surface of the coupling board, a pair of movable X-directional nuts, a rotatable Z-directional screw rod disposed between the pair of X-directional screw rods, a movable Z-directional nut supported by the Z-directional screw rod, a movable arm portion supported by the movable Z-directional nut, and a hand portion disposed on the movable arm portion for holding a part of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers, the method comprising the steps of: moving the movable arm portion in an X-direction to a position where the arm portion is proximate to a selected one of the rows of the coupling board, the selected one of the rows having the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers therein; moving the movable arm portion in a Y-direction along the selected one of the rows of the coupling board until the movable arm is proximate to the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers; holding the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers by the hand portion; moving the movable Z-directional nut so as to pull the selected one of the plurality of second optical connector in a Z-direction and thereby removing the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers from the coupling board; retreating the movable arm portion along the selected one of the rows; moving the movable arm portion in the X-direction to a desired one of the rows; moving the movable arm position in the Y-direction along the desired one of the rows until the desired position is reached; and moving the Z-directional nut in the Z-direction so as to connect the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers with the selected one of the first optical fibers. 21. An optical fiber switching method for using a switching device having a coupling board for optically coupling a selected one of a plurality of second optical fibers to a selected one of a plurality of first optical fibers, an optical fiber length adjusting unit for handling surplus portions of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers, partition members for dividing the coupling board into a plurality of rows, and switching means for changing a connecting position of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers to a desired connecting position, the method comprising the steps of: pulling out an end of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers from the coupling board; moving a portion of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers into the optical fiber length adjusting unit so as to position an end of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers near the optical fiber length adjusting unit; moving the end of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers so as to draw out the selected one of the plurality of second optical fiber and so as to place the end of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers near the desired connecting position; and connecting the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers to the selected one the first optical fibers. 22. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 21, wherein the switching device has a plurality of connectors arranged in m rows .times.n columns in the coupling board, and wherein m and n are greater than 0. 23. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 22, wherein ends of the plurality of first optical fibers are connected to the connectors of the coupling board from a first surface of the coupling board, and ends of the plurality of second optical fibers are connected to the connectors of the coupling board from a second surface of the coupling board. 24. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 21, wherein the coupling board has a plurality of connectors, each connector adapted to have a one of a plurality of first optical connectors, which are connected to ends of the plurality of first optical fibers, inserted from a first surface of the coupling board, and each connector adapted to have one of a plurality of second optical connectors, which are connected to ends of the plurality of second optical fibers, inserted from a second surface of the coupling board. 25. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 24, wherein a part of each of the plurality of second optical connectors is exposed from the second surface of the coupling board when one of the plurality of second optical connectors is inserted into one of the connectors in the coupling board from the second surface. 26. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 21, wherein the optical fiber length adjusting unit includes a plurality of optical fiber length adjusting blocks, is positioned proximate to the second surface of the coupling board, and feeds the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers to the second surface of the coupling board. 27. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 27, wherein the plurality of optical fiber length adjusting blocks are stacked in a horizontal direction with respect to the first and second surfaces of the coupling board. 28. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 26, wherein each of the plurality of optical fiber length adjusting blocks includes a pair of rotatable reels on which the surplus portion of the selected one of the second optical fibers is wound. 29. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 28, wherein each of the optical fiber length adjusting blocks includes a flexible member for spacing the reels of the pair from each other. 30. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 21, wherein the partition means includes a plurality of U-shaped rods, and each of the U-shaped rods is disposed on a second surface of the coupling board. 31. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 30, wherein the rods are disposed on the second surface of the coupling board along the connectors so as to divide the second surface of the coupling board in m rows, wherein m is greater than 0. 32. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 21, wherein the switching means includes a robot mechanism disposed proximate to the coupling board. 33. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 32, wherein the robot mechanism comprises: a pair of X-directional screw rods disposed in parallel with respect to each other and perpendicular with respect to the plurality of rows of the second surface of the coupling board; a pair of X-directional nuts, each x-directional nut being supported by one of the X-directional screw rods and being movable along the X-directional screw rod; a rotatable Z-directional screw rod disposed between the pair of X-directional screw rods; a Z-directional nut supported by the Z-directional screw rod and being movable along the Z-directional screw rod; an arm portion supported by the Z-directional nut and being movable in a vertical direction with respect to the Z-directional screw rod; and a hand portion disposed on the arm portion for holding a part of the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers. 34. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 33, wherein each of X-directional screw rods includes a round rod member, and each round rod member has a screw groove formed thereon. 35. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 33, wherein each of the X-directional nuts has a threaded hole through which one of the X-direction screw rods is placed. 36. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 33, wherein the Z-directional screw rod includes a round rod member, and the round rod member has a screw groove formed thereon. 37. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 33, wherein the Z-directional nut has a threaded hole through which the Z-directional screw rod is placed. 38. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 33, wherein the pair of X-directional screw rods and the Z-directional screw rod are each independently rotatable. 39. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 33, wherein the hand portion includes a U-shaped member. 40. An optical fiber switching method according to claim 33, further comprising the steps of: moving the movable arm portion in an X-direction to a position where the arm portion is proximate to a selected one of the rows of the coupling board, the selected one of the rows having the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers therein; moving the movable arm portion in a Y-direction along the selected one of the rows of the coupling board until the movable arm is proximate to the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers; holding the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers by the hand portion; moving the movable Z-directional nut so as to pull the selected one of the plurality of second optical connector in a Z-direction and thereby removing the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers from the coupling board; retreating the movable arm portion along the selected one of the rows; moving the movable arm portion in the X-direction to a desired one of the rows; moving the movable arm position in the Y-direction along the desired one of the rows until the desired position is reached; and moving the Z-directional nut in the Z-direction so as to connect the selected one of the plurality of second optical fibers with the selected one of the first optical fibers. 