A framing apparatus that accurately and efficiently clamps and welds a loosely assembled vehicle body with a high degree of repeatability between consecutive vehicle bodies while also having the ability to adapt to a plurality of different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations in a quick and efficient manner. The framing apparatus provides a first and second framing means that move between a raised position for introducing and removing the vehicle body from a welding station and a lowered position for clamping and welding the loosely assembled vehicle body. The first and second framing means are pivotally connected to a carriage which is supported on a pair of substantially parallel inner rails for movement along a first path of travel. A pair of substantially outer rails support the first and second framing means for movement along the first path of travel when in the raised position. The outer rails contain a movable portion within the welding station which movably support the first and second framing means between the raised position and the lowered position. When the first and second framing means are in the lowered position, a means for releasably locating the ends of the first and second framing means is provided to locate and secure the first and second framing means in a fixed relationship relative to the welding station. A means for interchanging the first and second framing means is provided to adapt to a plurality of different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A framing apparatus for clamping and welding a loosely assembled vehicle body to form a permanently assembled, substantially rigid subassembly comprising: means for accurately positioning the loosely assembled vehicle body at a welding station; a pair of substantially parallel inner rails defining a first path of travel; a carriage supported by said pair of inner rails for movement along said first path of travel; first and second means for framing the vehicle body at said welding station wherein said first and second framing means are connected to said carriage for movement between a raised position for introducing and removing the vehicle body from said welding station and a lowered position for clamping and welding the loosely assembled vehicle body; a pair of substantially parallel outer rails supporting said first and second framing means when in said raised position; and a movable portion of said pair of outer rails at said welding station movable to a position displaced from the remaining portion of said pair of outer rails to move and support said first and second framing means between said raised position and said lowered position. 2. The framing apparatus stated in claim 1 including: means for interchanging said first and second framing means to adapt to a plurality of different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations. 3. The framing apparatus stated in claim 2 wherein said interchanging means comprises: a plurality of said carriages supported by said inner rails for movement along said first path of travel; a plurality of said first and second framing means supported by said carriages and said outer rails for movement along the first path of travel when in said raised position, and each of said plurality of first and second framing means adapted for framing a different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configuration; and means for powering movement of said plurality of said carriages and said plurality of said first and second framing means along said first path of travel until a predetermined one of said plurality of first and second framing means is located at said welding station for framing a predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configuration. 4. The framing apparatus stated in claim 1 including: means for releasably locating said first and second framing means in said lowered position. 5. The framing apparatus stated in claim 4 wherein said releasable locating means is connected to said welding station in a fixed, predetermined position. 6. The framing apparatus stated in claim 1 including means for conveying the vehicle body along a second path of travel to and from said welding station. 7. The framing apparatus stated in claim 6 wherein said second path of travel is substantially parallel to said first path of travel. 8. The framing apparatus stated in claim 6 wherein said second path of travel is substantially perpendicular to said first path of travel. 9. The framing apparatus stated in claim 6 including means for releasably locating said first and second framing means in said lowered position, and said releasable locating means being connected to said conveying means in a predetermined position. 10. The framing apparatus stated in claim 1 including means for manipulating movement of said movable portion of said pair of outer rails comprising: a linkage assembly having one end connected to said movable portion of said outer rails and another end connected to said welding station for supporting movement of said movable portion of said outer rails between said raised position and said lowered position; and means for powering movement of said linkage assembly between said raised position and said lowered position. 11. A framing apparatus for clamping and welding a loosely assembled vehicle body to form a permanently assembled, substantially rigid subassembly comprising: means for conveying said vehicle body in a predetermined fixed relationship relative to said conveying means to and from a welding station; means for accurately positioning the loosely assembled vehicle body at said welding station; a pair of substantially parallel inner rails defining a first path of travel; a carriage supported by said pair of inner rails for movement along said first path of travel; first and second means for framing the vehicle body at said welding station wherein said first and second framing means are pivotally connected to said carriage for pivotal movement about a pivot axis when moving between the raised position for introducing and removing the vehicle body from said welding station and a lowered position for clamping and welding the loosely assembled vehicle body; a pair of substantially parallel outer rails supporting said first and second framing means for movement of said first and second framing means along said first path of travel when in said raised position; a portion of said pair of outer rails at said welding station movable to a position displaced from the remaining portion of said pair of outer rails to pivotally move and support said first and second framing means between said raised position and said lowered position; and means for releasably locating said first and second framing means in said lowered position in a predetermined position. 12. The framing apparatus stated in claim 11 wherein said releasable locating means is fixedly connected to said welding station in a predetermined, fixed position. 13. The framing apparatus stated in claim 11 wherein said releasable locating means is connected to said conveying means in a predetermined position. 14. The framing apparatus stated in claim 13 wherein said conveying means moves along a second path of travel, and said second path of travel is substantially parallel to said first path of travel. 15. The framing apparatus stated in claim 13 wherein said conveying means moves along a second path of travel, and said second path of travel is substantially perpendicular to said first path of travel. 16. The framing apparatus stated in claim 11 including means for interchanging said first and second framing means to adapt to a plurality of different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations. 17. The framing apparatus stated in claim 16 wherein said interchanging means comprises: a plurality of said carriages supported by said inner rails for movement along said first path of travel; a plurality of said first and second framing means supported by said carriages and said outer rails for movement along said first path of travel when in said raised position, and each one of said plurality of said first and second framing means adapted for framing different predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations; and means for powering movement of said plurality of said carriages and said plurality of said first and second framing means along said first path of travel when in said raised position until a predetermined one of said plurality of said first and second framing means is located at said welding station for framing a predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configuration. 18. The framing apparatus stated in claim 11 wherein said first and second framing means each comprise: a framing section providing access to the loosely assembled vehicle body for clamping and welding the loosely assembled vehicle body; means for clamping the loosely assembled vehicle body at predetermined locations when said framing section is in said lowered position, and said clamping means connected to said framing section; and means for welding said vehicle body at predetermined locations when said framing section is in said lowered position. 19. The framing apparatus stated in claim 11 wherein said releasable locating means comprises: at least one spool connected to each of said first and second framing means; and means for receiving said spool when in said lowered position to releasably locate said first and second framing means in a fixed orientation relative to said pivot axis. 20. The framing apparatus stated in claim 11 including means for manipulating movement of said movable portion of said pair of outer rails comprising: a linkage assembly having one end connected to said movable portion of said outer rails and another end connected to said welding station for supporting movement of said movable portion of said outer rails between said raised position and said lowered position; and means for powering movement of said linkage assembly between said raised position and said lowered position. 21. A framing apparatus for clamping and welding a loosely preassembled vehicle body to form a permanently assembled, substantially rigid subassembly comprising: a carrier for supporting the loosely assembled vehicle body in a predetermined fixed relationship relative to said carrier; means for accurately positioning the loosely assembled vehicle body at said welding station in a predetermined fixed relationship relative to said welding station; a pair of substantially parallel inner rails defining a first path of travel; a carriage supported by said inner rails for movement along said first path of travel; a framing assembly at said welding station including a first framing section having a top portion and a bottom portion, and a second framing section having a top portion and a bottom portion; said carriage pivotally connecting and supporting said top portion of said first framing section to said top portion of said second framing section for pivotal movement about a horizontal pivot axis overlying the vehicle body and being substantially parallel to said first path of travel wherein said first and second framing sections move between a raised position for allowing the vehicle body to enter and exit said welding station and a lowered position for clamping and welding the loosely assembled vehicle body; a pair of substantially parallel outer rails being substantially parallel to said inner rails and supporting said first and second framing sections for movement of said framing assembly along said first path of travel when in said raised position; a movable portion of said pair of outer rails at said welding station movable to a position displaced from the remaining portion of said pair of outer rails to pivotally move and support said first and second framing sections between said raised position and said lowered position; means for manipulating movement of said movable portion of said pair of outer rails between said raised position, wherein said movable portion of said pair of outer rails is linearly aligned with said remaining portions of said pair of outer rails, and said lowered position, wherein said movable portion of said outer rails is displaced from said remaining portions of said outer rails; a pair of spools connected to said bottom portion of said first and second framing sections; a pair of locators for receiving and releasably locating said pair of spools when in said lowered position to locate said bottom portions of said first and second framing sections in a fixed orientation relative to said pivot axis; means for clamping said vehicle body at predetermined locations when said framing assembly is in said lowered position, and said clamping means connected to said framing assembly; means for welding the loosely assembled vehicle body at predetermined locations when said framing assembly is in said lowered position; and means for interchanging said framing assembly to adapt to a plurality of different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations. 22. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 wherein said carrier moves along a second path of travel, and said first path of travel is substantially parallel to said second path of travel. 23. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 wherein said carrier moves along a second path of travel and said first path of travel is substantially perpendicular to said second path of travel. 24. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 wherein said releasable locating means is fixedly connected to said welding station in a fixed, predetermined position. 25. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 wherein said releasable locating means is connected to said carrier in a predetermined position. 26. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 wherein said manipulating means comprises: a linkage assembly having one end connected to said movable portion of said outer rails and another end connected to said welding station for supporting movement of said movable portion of said outer rails between said raised position and said lowered position; and means for powering movement of said linkage assembly between said raised position and said lowered position. 27. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 wherein said interchanging means comprises: a plurality of said carriages supported by said inner rails for movement along said first path of travel; a plurality of said framing assemblies supported by said carriages and said outer rails for movement along said first path of travel when in said raised position and each one of said plurality of said framing assemblies adapted for framing different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations; and means for powering movement of said plurality of said carriages and said plurality of said framing assemblies along said first path of travel until a predetermined one of said plurality of said framing assemblies is located at said welding station for clamping and welding a predetermined, loosely assembled vehicle body configuration. 28. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 including: said carrier randomly supplying said welding station with a plurality of different, predetermined loosely assembled vehicle body configurations; and means for identifying and responding to the random loosely assembled vehicle body configuration arriving at said welding station by having said interchanging means move a predetermined frame assembly into said welding station for clamping and welding the loosely assembled vehicle body. 29. The framing apparatus stated in claim 28 wherein said welding means comprises programmable robotic welders that respond to said identifying and responding means by automatically loading a predetermined computer program for welding the predetermined, loosely assembled vehicle body configuration at said welding station. 30. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 including: said carrier being movable along a second path of travel; and the vehicle body having a front to rear axis that is substantially parallel to said second path of travel. 31. The framing apparatus stated in claim 21 including: said carrier being movable along a second path of travel; and the vehicle body having a front to rear axis that is substantially perpendicular to said second path of travel. 