A robot suitable for micro-surgical application is formed by a robot arm having a position adjustable free end on which are mounted with their respective stators in fixed relationship a master and a slave robot. The position and actuation of the moving element of the master (master floater) and the moving element of the slave (slave floater) are used to couple their moment such that the master floater motion and forces are scaled down and followed by the slave and the slave floater motion and forces are scaled up and followed by the master. The sensed environment forces on the slave floater and sensed hand (environment) forces on the master can be used to improve the coordination between the master and the slave.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic system comprising an arm having a position adjustable-free end, said arm having joint connections constructed for macro-adjustments of said free end, an extension mounted on said free end, a micro teleoperation system mounted on said extension, said micro teleoperation system including a slave stator and a master stator mounted in fixed relationship on said extension, a slave floater cooperating with said slave stator and a master floater cooperating with said master stator, means for sensing the position of each of said master and said slave floaters relative to their respective said master and said slave stators, coupling means coupling said master floater and said slave floater so that movement of said master floater produces a scaled moment of said slave floater and movement of said slave floater produces a scaled movement of said master floater, said movement of said master resulting in a smaller corresponding scaled movement of said slave floater and said movement of said slave resulting in larger corresponding scaled movement of said master floater. 2. A robotic system as defined in claim 1 wherein said coupling means includes a programable computer means to scale said corresponding scaled movements of said master and slave floaters in accordance with a selected program. 3. A robotic system as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing forces applied to said slave floater from its environment. 4. A robotic system as defined in claim 3 further comprising means for sensing forces applied to said master floater by its environment. 5. A robotic system as defined in claim 4 wherein said coupling means further comprise means for modifying sensed said slave and said master environment forces and means for applying said modified forces to said master and said slave floaters respectively. 6. A robotic system as defined in claim 4 wherein said coupling means includes a programable computer means to scale said corresponding movements of said master and said slave floaters and said sensed forces in accordance with a preselected program and wherein said motions and forces are implemented for transparency in accordance with appropriate programmed processing of said master and said slave floater positions and sensed slave and master environment forces. 7. A robotic system as defined in claim 1 wherein said computer means further comprises computer-assisted means for controlling the compliance of said master and/or slave floaters to guide the movement of said master and/or slave floaters. 8. A robotic system as defined in claim 4 wherein said computer means further comprises computer-assisted means for controlling the compliance of said master and/or slave floaters to guide the movement of said master and/or slave. 9. A robotic system as defined in claim 5 wherein said computer means further comprises computer-assisted means for controlling the compliance of said master and/or slave floaters to guide the movement of said master and/or slave floaters. 10. A robotic system as defined in claim 6 wherein said computer means further comprises computer-assisted means for controlling the compliance of said master and/or slave floaters to guide the movement of said master and/or slave floaters. 11. A robotic system as defined in claim 1 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 12. A robotic system as defined in claim 3 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 13. A robotic system as defined in claim 4 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 14. A robotic system as defined in claim 5 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 15. A robotic system as defined in claim 6 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 16. A robotic system as defined in claim 7 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 17. A robotic system as defined in claim 8 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 18. A robotic system as defined in claim 9 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 19. A robotic system as defined in claim 10 wherein said arm is back drivable and said computer means includes means to control the movement of said arm when the position of said master floater relative to said master stator is outside a selected deadband zone based on movement of said master floater. 