A media exchange system uses a robot arm assembly to allow tape cartridges and other storage media to be shared among multiple, individual, media storage libraries. One or more media storage libraries are provided for data storage. Each media storage library has its own internal media storage facility that can be accessed at a relatively quick speed. If required, the robot arm assembly can be used to transfer media from one media storage library to another. Additional media storage cells are provided external to the individual media storage libraries. These provide additional tape storage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media exchange system, comprising: a housing defining an interior data storage area having a plurality of first storage cells within said interior storage area, each of said first storage cells for storing a data storage cartridge; a plurality of media storage library units having an opening in said housing, each of said plurality of media storage library units including, a data storage cache within said each of said plurality of media storage library units proximate to said opening, said data storage cache having a plurality of second storage cells, each of said plurality of second storage cells for storing a data storage cartridge, one or more tape drive systems within each of said media storage library units, a tape transfer system within said each of said plurality of media storage library units, for transferring said data storage cartridges between said one or more tape drive systems and said data storage cache, and an internal control system for controlling said data storage cache, said one or more tape drive systems and said tape transfer system; robot means within said interior data storage area, for transferring one or more data storage cartridges from one of said first and second storage cells to another of said first and second storage cells, said robot means accessing said second storage cells through said opening; and control means for controlling said robot means and for communicating with said internal control system of said plurality of media storage library units, whereby all of said plurality of media storage library units have access to data stored in any other of said plurality of media storage library units in the media exchange system. 2. The media exchange system of claim 1, wherein said data storage cache is a carousel, said carousel rotating about an axis to provide a requested data storage cartridge to said tape transfer system and to said robot means. 3. The media exchange system of claim 1, wherein said robot means has a plurality of hands. 4. The media exchange system of claim 1, wherein said tape transfer system comprises a robotics system. 5. The media exchange system of claim 1, further comprising one or more independent tape drive systems, wherein said robot means is further for transferring said data storage cartridges between said first and second storage cells and said one or more independent tape drive systems. 6. The media exchange system of claim 1, wherein said control means comprises a centralized control system for determining a location of a requested data storage cartridge requested by a requesting one of said one or more tape drive systems, and further for operating in conjunction with one or more of said internal control systems to control the transfer of said requested data storage cartridge from said location to said requesting one of said one or more tape drive systems. 7. In a media exchange system including a housing defining an interior data storage area having a plurality of first storage cells within said interior storage area, each of the first storage cells for storing a data storage cartridge, a plurality of media storage library units having an opening in the housing, each of the plurality of media storage library units including a data storage cache having a plurality of second data storage cartridge storage cells, one or more tape drive systems, and a tape transfer system for transferring the data storage cartridges between the one or more tape drive systems and the data storage cache under the control of an internal control system, and further including a robot means for transferring data storage cartridges between said storage cells, and a control means for controlling said robot means, a method for transferring data storage cartridges comprising the steps of: (a) receiving, by the internal control system of a first media storage library unit, a request for data stored on a requested data storage cartridge, said request is generated by a computing system coupled to said first media storage library unit; (b) determining, by the internal control system of said first media storage library unit, whether said requested data storage cartridge is stored in the data storage cache of the first media storage library unit; (c) when said requested data cartridge is stored in said data storage cache of said first media storage library unit, transferring, by the tape transfer system of said first media storage library unit, said requested data storage cartridge from said data storage cache to a tape drive system within said first media storage library unit; (d) transferring, by said internal control system, a request to locate said requested data storage cartridge to a central control system when said requested data storage cartridge is not located in said data storage cache of said first media storage library unit; (e) determining, by said central control system, said location of said requested data storage cartridge; (f) transferring, by the robot means, said requested data storage cartridge from a second media storage library unit to said first media storage library unit when said requested data storage cartridge resides in said second media storage library unit; (g) transferring, by the robot means, said requested data storage cartridge from the interior storage area to said first media storage library unit when said requested data storage cartridge resides in the interior data storage area of the housing; and (h) updating, by said central control system, location tables indicating a current location of said requested data storage cartridge. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of: (i) generating an error signal, by said central control system, when said requested data storage cartridge does not reside in the media exchange system. 