In a method of cutting plant tissue for micropropagation, a container (42) containing plantlets (43) Is rotated on a turntable (19). A laser beam (35) is focused on a side wall (36) of the container below the level of a nutrient medium (45). The container (42) is rotated while the laser (35) cuts free an upper portion (36) of the container (12). After cutting, plant material is cut in a subsequent step by the same laser. Preferably the container is inverted during cutting of container and plantlets.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of operating on plantlets during micropropagation comprising the steps of: presenting at a work station a closed, sterilized container containing plantlets growing in a nutrient medium; cutting open the container by a laser to provide access to the plantlets; and then performing an operation on the plantlets in the opened container. 2. A method according to claim 1 in which the container has a first portion extending in the region of the nutrient medium and a second portion extending in the region in which the plantlets grow, the method including; using the laser to cut the second portion of the container free from the first portion which contains the nutrient medium supporting the plantlets; and removing the second portion of the container to provide access to the plantlets. 3. A method according to claim 2 in which said container is cut in such a manner that, when cut, the second portion falls apart free from the first portion. 4. A method according to claim 1 including cutting a side wall or side walls of a container by the laser. 5. A method according to claim 4 including the step of cutting the container by the laser at a level within the depth of nutrient medium in the container. 6. A method according to claim 4 including the step of focusing the beam of the laser to a cutting focus at a side wall of the container, and rotating the container during the cutting of the container. 7. A method according to claim 1 in which said operation on the plantlets in the opened container comprises removing by robotic handling means a plantlet from the container. 8. A method of operating on plantlets during micropropagation including the steps of: growing plantlets in a container containing the plantlets growing in a nutrient medium, the container having a first portion extending in the region of the nutrient medium and a second portion extending in the region in which the plantlets grow, the container being positioned in a first orientation while the plantlets are growing with the second portion at a higher level than the first portion; presenting the container at a work station in a second orientation, different from the first orientation, with the second portion of the container at a lower level, relative to the first portion, than is the case in the first orientation; and cutting the container by a laser to provide access to the plantlets. 9. A method according to claim 8 in which the container is presented at the work station in an inverted position with the plantlets extending downwardly from the nutrient medium. 10. A method according to claim 8 including removing the cut away upper portion at least partly by gravity. 11. A method of operating on plantlets during micropropagation including the steps of: growing plantlets in a container containing the plantlets growing in a nutrient medium, the container being positioned in a first orientation while the plantlets are growing, the plantlets having base portions adjacent the nutrient medium and distal portions growing upwardly away from the nutrient medium; cutting the container by a laser to provide access to the plantlets; presenting the plantlets at a work station in a second orientation different from the first orientation, with the distal portions of the plantlets at a lower position relative to the base portions than is the case in the first orientation; cutting by the laser through a plurality of the growing plantlets to release in bulk cut-away portions large enough to contain tips and/or nodes. 12. A method according to claim 11 in which the plantlets are presented for cutting with the container inverted and the plantlets extending downwardly from the nutrient medium. 13. A method according to claim 2 including removing the cut away plant portions from the remaining plantlets at least partly by gravity. 14. A method according to claim 2, including the step of receiving the released plant portions onto a second nutrient medium positioned below the plantlets in the first container. 15. A method of operating on plantlets during micropropagation comprising the steps of: presenting at a work station a closed, sterilized container containing plantlets growing in a nutrient medium; cutting open the container by a laser to provide access to the plantlets; and using the laser also to cut a portion of plant tissue from at least one of said plantlets. 