A gain medium is comprised of a multi-phase system wherein: a first phase is an electromagnetic radiation emission phase; a second phase is an electromagnetic radiation scattering phase; and a third phase is a transparent matrix phase. By example, the emission phase may consist of dye molecules, the scattering phase may consist of high contrast particles, and the matrix phase may consist of a solvent such as methanol. In some embodiments of this invention the emission and scattering phases may be the same phase, as when semiconductor particles are employed. A smallest dimension of a body comprised of the gain medium may be less than a scattering length associated with the scattering phase. It is shown that nearly thresholdless laser behavior is observed in strongly scattering optically pumped dye-methanol solutions containing colloidal TiO.sub.2 or Al.sub.2 O.sub.3 ruby nanoparticles. The emission from the high gain colloid exhibits a slope change in the linear input-output characteristics above a critical pump pulse energy. The change in slope is accompanied by a spectral line narrowing with a bichromatic spectrum appearing at high pump energies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multiphase gain medium comprising: a first phase of said multiphase gain medium comprising means for spontaneously emitting electromagnetic radiation in response to an excitation and for amplifying said emitted electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission; and a second phase of said multiphase gain medium comprising means for scattering the emitted and amplified electromagnetic radiation for increasing the residence time of said electromagnetic radiation within said first phase, wherein said multiphase gain medium has a volume, and wherein amplification of said electromagnetic radiation occurs in a portion of said volume of said multiphase gain medium. 2. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 and further comprising a third phase of said multiphase gain medium that is substantially transparent at least at wavelengths of said stimulated emission, said third phase being commingled with said first phase and said second phase within said volume of said gain medium. 3. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 2 wherein said first phase and said third phase are comprised of a polymeric material. 4. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 2 wherein said third phase consists of a material selected from a group consisting of a liquid, a semi-liquid, a gel, a cream, a semi-solid, a solid, and combinations thereof. 5. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first phase is comprised of one or more types of dye molecules, and wherein said second phase is comprised of scattering sites. 6. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim I wherein said first phase and said second phase are comprised of a semiconductor material. 7. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein the gain medium is excited by electromagnetic energy having a first wavelength for outputting electromagnetic energy by stimulated emission, the outputted electromagnetic energy having wavelengths primarily within a band of wavelengths centered about a second wavelength that is different than the first wavelength. 8. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 7 wherein the first wavelength is shorter than the second wavelength. 9. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 7 wherein the first wavelength is longer than the second wavelength. 10. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first phase is comprised of a polymer, and wherein said second phase is comprised of scattering sites contained within said polymer. 11. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first phase is comprised of a semiconductor material that is provided in a particulate form, and wherein at least a portion of second phase of said gain medium is comprised of particles of the semiconductor material. 12. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first phase is comprised of at least one type of dye molecules, and wherein the dye molecules are contained within voids within a matrix material that is substantially transparent at wavelengths of said stimulated emission, said matrix material containing said dye molecules. 13. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein said volume of said gain medium is disposed adjacent to a surface of a substrate. 14. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 13 wherein said volume of said gain medium is disposed upon said surface as a coating, and wherein said surface has a plurality of said coatings formed thereon. 15. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 13 wherein said gain medium forms a portion of an apparatus that includes an electromagnetic radiation source, said apparatus further comprising: an energy source for stimulating said volume of said gain medium to emit electromagnetic energy primarily within a band of wavelengths that includes a predetermined wavelength, wherein said energy source outputs a beam of electromagnetic energy having a wavelength that differs from said predetermined wavelength; and means for causing a relative motion between said beam and said substrate. 16. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 15 wherein said means for causing a relative motion includes means for translating said substrate. 17. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 15 wherein said means for causing a relative motion includes means for scanning said beam. 18. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 13, wherein there are a plurality of said substrates each having at least one region of said gain medium disposed adjacent to a surface thereof, each of said substrates being substantially transparent at least at wavelengths of said stimulated emission, and wherein individual ones of said substrates are disposed one upon another in a multi-layered configuration. 19. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein: said gain medium is disposed adjacent to a surface of a substrate within at least one region of said surface, said at least one region being comprised of a plurality of sub-regions, wherein said gain medium within individual ones of said plurality of sub-regions emits electromagnetic energy, when excited, that is primarily within a band of wavelengths centered about a predetermined wavelength, and wherein the predetermined wavelength of said gain medium within at least two of said sub-regions are different from one another. 20. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein said gain medium forms a portion of an optical source for emitting electromagnetic energy, and further comprising an energy source for stimulating said volume of said gain medium to emit electromagnetic energy primarily within a predetermined band of wavelengths. 21. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 20 wherein said predetermined band of wavelengths is centered about a first wavelength, and wherein said energy source stimulates said volume of said gain medium with electromagnetic energy within a band of wavelengths centered about a second wavelength that differs from said first wavelength. 22. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 20 wherein said energy source is comprised of a chemical energy source. 23. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 20 wherein said energy source is comprised of an electrical energy source. 24. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1 wherein: said gain medium is disposed upon a surface of a substrate as a plurality of coatings, wherein individual ones of said coatings emit electromagnetic energy, when excited, that is primarily within a narrow band of wavelengths centered about a predetermined wavelength, and wherein the predetermined wavelength of at least two of said coatings are different from one another. 25. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 1, wherein said volume of gain medium is contained within a monolithic three-dimensional structure. 26. A multiphase gain medium as set forth in claim 25 wherein said structure is substantially spherical in shape. 27. An optical gain medium, comprising: a medium that is substantially transparent to at least one selected wavelength; a plurality of dye molecules contained within said medium for emitting and amplifying electromagnetic radiation, at the at least one selected wavelength, in response to excitation; and a plurality of particles contained within said medium, said particles having an index of refraction that differs from an index of refraction of said medium for scattering the electromagnetic radiation that is emitted from said plurality of dye molecules for increasing the residence time of the electromagnetic radiation within said medium. 28. A gain medium as set forth in claim 27 wherein said plurality of particles have an associated photon scattering length; and wherein at least one dimension of a volume of said gain medium is not significantly greater than the photon scattering length. 29. An optical gain medium, comprising: a medium that is substantially transparent to at least one selected wavelength; and a plurality of particles contained within said medium, said particles being selected from a material that emits electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission, at the at least one selected wavelength, in response to excitation, said particles having an index of refraction that differs from an index of refraction of said medium for scattering the emitted electromagnetic radiation for increasing the residence time of the eletromagnetic radiation within said medium whereby optical gain occurs at the at least one selected wavelength. 30. A gain medium as set forth in claim 29 wherein said plurality of particles have an associated photon scattering length; and wherein at least one dimension of a volume of said gain medium is not significantly greater than the photon scattering length. 31. A gain medium exhibiting laser-like activity when excited by an excitation source, comprising: a medium that is substantially transparent to at least one selected wavelength, said medium having a volume and comprising a material selected for emitting and amplifying electromagnetic radiation in response to an excitation; and a plurality of particles contained within said medium, said particles having an index of refraction that differs from an index of refraction of said medium for scattering the emitted electromagnetic radiation for increasing the residence time of the electromagnetic radiation within said medium, wherein amplification of said electromagnetic radiation occurs within a portion of the volume of said medium. 32. A gain medium as set forth in claim 31 wherein said plurality of particles have an associated photon scattering length; and wherein at least one dimension of a volume of said gain medium is not significantly greater than the photon scattering length. 33. An apparatus for irradiating a region with electromagnetic radiation that has wavelengths within a predetermined band of wavelengths, said apparatus comprising an elongated structure having an input port for coupling to a source of electromagnetic radiation outputting at least one first wavelength, said elongated structure being comprised along at least a portion of a length thereof of a multiphase optical gain medium comprised of a material having a first phase for spontaneously emitting electromagnetic radiation within the band of wavelengths in response to electromagnetic radiation having said at least one first wavelength, said first phase further amplifying the emitted electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission; said material further being comprised of a second phase for scattering the emitted and amplified electromagnetic radiation for increasing the residence time of the electromagnetic radiation within said first phase. 34. An apparatus as set forth in claim 33 wherein said elongated structure is flexible. 35. An apparatus as set forth in claim 33 wherein said at least one first wavelength is a wavelength outside of the predetermined band of wavelengths. 36. An apparatus as set forth in claim 33 wherein said input port is coupled to a first end of said elongated structure, and further comprising means coupled to a second end of said elongated structure for directing at least said emitted and amplified electromagnetic radiation in at least one predetermined direction. 37. A method for protecting an object from damage caused by energy contained within incident electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths within a first band of wavelengths, comprising the steps of: providing the object with an optical gain medium comprised of a material having a first phase for spontaneously emitting electromagnetic radiation within a second band of wavelengths in response to excitation with electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths within the first band of wavelengths, the first phase further amplifying the emitted electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission; the material further being comprised of a second phase comprising means for scattering the emitted and amplified electromagnetic radiation for increasing the residence time of the electromagnetic radiation within the first phase; and in response to an irradiation of the object with electromagnetic radiation within the first band of wavelengths, using the optical gain medium to convert a portion of the energy of the electromagnetic radiation within the first band of wavelengths to an emission of electromagnetic radiation within the second band of wavelengths. 38. An optical system, comprising: an enclosure containing a first optical gain medium; an optical source for pumping the first optical gain medium with first electromagnetic radiation having a first wavelength; means for converting a portion of the first electromagnetic radiation to a second wavelength for seeding the first gain medium at the second wavelength; wherein said converting means includes a second optical gain medium comprised of a material having a first phase for spontaneously emitting electromagnetic radiation having the second wavelength in response to excitation with electromagnetic radiation having the first wavelength, the first phase further amplifying the emitted electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission; the material further being comprised of a second phase comprising means for scattering the emitted and amplified electromagnetic radiation for increasing the residence time of the electromagnetic radiation within the first phase. 39. An optical system as set forth in claim 38 wherein said second optical gain medium is disposed external to said enclosure. 40. An optical system as set forth in claim 38 wherein said second optical gain medium is disposed adjacent to a surface of said enclosure. 41. An optical system as set forth in claim 38 wherein said first optical gain medium operates by a non-linear process wherein the optical gain is a non-linear function of an intensity of the electromagnetic radiation having at least the first wavelength. 42. An optical system as set forth in claim 38 wherein said second optical gain medium is disposed within said enclosure. 43. A laser diode comprising: an active region having an output face for outputting an optical emission within a first range of wavelengths; and a coating disposed upon said output face for converting at least a portion of said optical emission to an optical emission within a second range of wavelengths, said coating being comprised of a material having a first phase for spontaneously emitting electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths within the second range of wavelengths in response to excitation with electromagnetic radiation having wavelengths with the first range of wavelengths, the first phase further amplifying the emitted electromagnetic radiation by stimulated emission; the material further being comprised of a second phase comprising means for scattering the emitted and amplified electromagnetic radiation for increasing the residence time of the electromagnetic radiation within the first phase. 44. A laser diode as set forth in claim 43 wherein said second phase is comprised of a plurality of particles that are dispersed within said coating and that have an associated scattering cross-section; and wherein at least dimension of said coating is is comparable in size to a dimension of said scattering cross-section. 45. A method for broadening and shifting a band of emission wavelengths from an optical emitter, comprising the steps of: providing an optical emitter in combination with a plurality of scattering centers that are commingled within a medium that is substantially transparent to the band of emission wavelengths; inputting energy into the medium for generating a spontaneous emission from the optical emitter; and broadening and shifting a band of emission wavelengths from the optical emitter by scattering the emission with the scattering centers. 46. An optical emitter comprising: a substrate; and a first thin film disposed on a surface of said substrate; wherein said first thin film is comprised of a first optical gain medium that is comprised of a first optical emitter in combination with a plurality of scattering centers for emitting, in response to excitation by a pulse of electromagnetic radiation having a first range of wavelengths centered about a first wavelength, a first temporally and spectrally collapsed pulse of electromagnetic radiation having a second range of wavelengths centered about a second wavelength. 47. An optical emitter as set forth in claim 46 and further comprising: a second thin film disposed on said surface of said substrate; wherein said second thin film is comprised of a second optical gain medium comprised of a second optical emitter in combination with a plurality of scattering centers for emitting, in response to excitation by said pulse of electromagnetic radiation having said first range of wavelengths centered about said first wavelength, a second temporally and spectrally collapsed pulse of electromagnetic radiation having a third range of wavelengths centered about a third wavelength, and wherein said second wavelength is different than said third wavelength. 48. An optical emitter comprising: a substantially spherical body containing an optical gain medium that is comprised of an optical emitter in combination with a plurality of scattering centers for emitting, in response to excitation by a pulse of electromagnetic radiation having a first range of wavelengths centered about a first wavelength, a first temporally and spectrally collapsed pulse of electromagnetic radiation having a second range of wavelengths centered about a second wavelength. 49. A light emitting device comprising: an active region having a first surface and a second surface opposite said first surface; a first electrode disposed on said first surface; and a second electrode disposed on said second surface; wherein said active region is comprised of a polymer that is responsive to electrical energy input by said first and second electrodes for spontaneously emitting light and for amplifying the emitted light by stimulated emission, said polymer containing scattering centers for scattering the emitted and amplified light for increasing the residence time of the emitted light within said active region. 50. A flexible catheter comprising: a flexible filament structure having a first end for coupling to a pulsed source of light and a second end, said flexible filament structure being capable of guiding pulsed light from said first end to said second end; and a light conversion structure that is optically coupled to said flexible filament structure for converting a portion of said pulsed light from light having a first wavelength to light having a second wavelength, said light conversion structure comprising an optical gain medium that comprised of an optical emitter in combination with a plurality of scattering centers for emitting, in response to excitation by a pulse of light having a first range of wavelengths centered about a first wavelength, a temporally and spectrally collapsed pulse of electromagnetic radiation having a second range of wavelengths centered about a second wavelength. 