A microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, particularly very small objects. The microgripper includes a support and two cantilevered flexible arms, each of which is mounted on one end to the support. The other ends of the flexible arms are capable of being flexed toward and away from each other. A servomotor, is affixed to the support. There is a slide arrangement driven by the servomotor and which is adapted to move the unmounted ends of the flexible arms toward or away from each other, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement. An apparatus which includes a micromanipulator, the microgripper which is operationally, detachably affixed to the micromanipulator, and a control system which is electrically connected to the motor means whereby the movement of the slide arrangement is controlled.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, comprising: (a) support means having a first and a second end; (b) motor means affixed to said support means, the motor means being selected from the group consisting of a stepper motor and a servomotor with an encoder which is integral with the servomotor, the servomotor having a rotatable shaft, said encoder being adapted to control the rotational speed of the servomotor and the shaft thereof, which in turn controls the relative motion of a slide means; (c) slide means driven by said motor means, said slide means having a first end and a second end, said first end of said slide means facing said first end of said support means; and (d) a first cantilevered flexible arm and a second cantilevered flexible arm, an end of said first arm being mounted on the first end of said support means, another end of said first arm being free, an end of said second arm being mounted on the first end on said slide means, another end of said second arm being free, the free ends of said arms being positioned so that the free end of the second arm mounted on said slide means is capable of being moved toward and away from the free end of the first arm mounted on the support means, the free ends of said arms being capable of being flexed towards and away from each other in a common plane, each of said free ends of said arms being a fine tip, the slide means being adapted to move the free end of the second arm mounted on said slide means toward or away from the free end of the first arm mounted on the support means, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement, said gripping taking place with the tip ends of said free ends of said arms, the tip ends of said free ends of said arms being capable of gripping a very small fragile object. 2. The microgripper of claim 1 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm comprises a first replaceable tip, and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm comprises a second replaceable tip. 3. The microgripper of claim 2 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a slanted tip, and the slanted tips face each other. 4. The microgripper of claim 2 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a vertical slide groove, and the vertical slide grooves face each other. 5. The microgripper of claim 1 wherein the motor means is the stepper motor. 6. The microgripper of claim 1 wherein the motor means is the servomotor and the encoder. 7. An apparatus comprising: (i) a micromanipulator; and (ii) a microgripper for gripping and releasing an object, comprising: (a) support means having a first and a second end; (b) motor means affixed to said support means, the motor means being selected from the group consisting of a stepper motor and a servomotor with an encoder which is integral with the servomotor, the servomotor having a rotatable shaft, said encoder being adapted to control the rotational speed of the servomotor and the shaft thereof, which in turn controls the relative motion of a slide means; (c) slide means driven by said motor means, said slide means having a first end and a second end, said first end of said slide means facing said first end of said support means; and (d) a first cantilevered flexible arm and a second cantilevered flexible arm, an end of said first arm being mounted on the first end of said support means, another end of said first arm being free, an end of said second arm being mounted on the first end of said slide means, another end of said second arm being free, the free ends of said arms being positioned so that the free end of the second arm mounted on said slide means is capable of being moved toward and away from the free end of the first arm mounted on the support means, the free ends of said arms being capable of being flexed towards and away from each other in a common plane, each of said free ends of said arms being a fine tip, the slide means being adapted to move the free end of the second arm mounted on said slide means toward or away from the free end of the first arm mounted on the support means, thereby providing, respectively, a gripping or releasing movement, said gripping taking place with the tip ends of said free ends of said arms, the tip ends of said free ends of said arms being capable of gripping a very small fragile object. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm comprises a first replaceable tip, and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm comprises a second replaceable tip. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the tip of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a slanted tip, and the slanted tips face each other. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the tip end of the free end of the first cantilevered arm and the tip of the free end of the second cantilevered arm each has a vertical slide groove, and the vertical slide grooves face each other. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the motor means is the stepper motor. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the motor means is the servomotor and the encoder. 