A system for identifying and managing a plurality of objects includes a high data density label. The label includes an optical media portion configured to store data in an optical format. The optical media portion has a high areal density and may be rewritable. The high data density of the label allows a large amount of information to be stored directly on the label. The data can be quickly read from the label without requiring physical contact with the label. A read device is provided for reading data from a selected label. A write device is provided for modifying the data in a selected label. The preferred embodiment of the labeling system is implemented in an information storage system using an automated cartridge system (ACS). The labels are attached to physical volumes (e.g., tape cartridges) stored in the ACS. The labels are used to identify and manage information stored on the physical volumes as well as the physical volumes themselves.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A label comprising: a label substrate for attachment to an object; and an optical media portion disposed on said substrate portion, said optical media portion configured to store data in an optical format, having an areal density greater than three hundred and sixty (360) Kilobits per square inch, and being readable by an optical means without requiring physical contact between said optical data storage portion and said read means. 2. The label of claim 1, wherein said optical media portion is rewritable. 3. The label of claim 1, wherein said optical media portion has an areal density greater than one Megabit per square inch. 4. The label of claim 1, wherein said optical media portion comprises an active material which optically stores data according to a crystallographic phase change method. 5. The label of claim 1, wherein said optical media portion comprises a read-only area and a rewritable area. 6. The label of claim 1, wherein said substrate portion comprises a conventional label. 7. The label of claim 1, wherein said substrate portion comprises an adhesive for attaching said optical media portion to said object. 8. The label of claim 1, wherein said data stored in said optical media portion comprises user data, synchronization data, address data, and error correction data. 9. The label of claim 1, wherein said optical media portion comprises a data area having plurality of pre-grooves disposed perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of said optical media portion and a plurality of data tracks interleaved with said pre-grooves. 10. The label of claim 9, wherein said optical media portion further comprises a lead-in track region at a first end of said data area. 11. The label of claim 10, wherein said optical media portion further comprises a lead-out track region at a second end of said data area. 12. The label of claim 11, wherein said optical media portion further comprises a coarse positioning pattern disposed on said optical media portion at each side of said data area parallel to said longitudinal axis. 13. A label comprising: a label substrate for attachment to an object; and an optical media portion disposed on said substrate portion, said optical media portion configured to store data in an optical format, wherein said optical media portion is optically readable and rewritable. 14. The label of claim 13, wherein said optical media portion comprises an active material which optically stores data according to a crystallographic phase change method. 15. The label of claim 13, wherein said optical media portion comprises a read-only area and a rewritable area. 16. The label of claim 13, wherein said substrate portion comprises a conventional label. 17. The label of claim 13, wherein said substrate portion comprises an adhesive for attaching said optical media portion to said object. 18. The label of claim 13, wherein said data stored in said optical media portion comprises user data, synchronization data, address data, and error correction data. 19. The label of claim 13, wherein said optical media portion comprises a data area having plurality of pre-grooves disposed perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of said optical media portion and a plurality of data tracks interleaved with said pre-grooves. 20. The label of claim 19, wherein said optical media portion further comprises a lead-in track region at a first end of said data area. 21. The label of claim 20, wherein said optical media portion further comprises a lead-out track region at a second end of said data area. 22. The label of claim 21, wherein said optical media portion further comprises a coarse positioning pattern disposed on said optical media portion at each side of said data area parallel to said longitudinal axis. 23. A system for identifying and managing a plurality of objects, comprising: a plurality of labels, each label being configured for physical attachment to one of the plurality of objects and including an optical media portion configured to store data in an optical format, wherein said optical media portion is optically readable and rewritable; read means for optically reading said data from a selected label; and write means for optically modifying said data in a selected label. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein said read means and said write means comprise an optical scanner. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein said optical scanner is disposed in a hand held unit. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein said optical scanner is coupled to a robotic hand assembly for automated processing of said plurality of objects. 27. A system for identifying and managing information stored on a plurality of physical volumes in an information storage system, comprising: a plurality of labels, each label being configured for attachment to a physical volume and including an optical media portion configured to store data associated with the physical volume to which it is attached, wherein said data is optically stored and is optically readable and rewritable; read means for optically reading said data from a selected label; and write means for optically modifying said data in a selected label. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein said read means and said write means comprise an optical scanner. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein said optical scanner is coupled to a robotic hand assembly configured to manipulate the physical volumes. 