A mechanical hand assembly for use in prosthetic and robotic applications includes multiple fingers pivotally attached to a palm subassembly. The fingers are operatively attached to a central actuating plate so that movement of the actuating plate in opposed directions causes the fingers to bend and straighten. An electric motor drives the actuating plate through a pivotable or tiltable linkage so that when one of the fingers engages an object to be manipulated, the plate tilts and continues to move any opposed fingers toward engagement. Each finger includes a base, a lever arm and multiple phalanges operatively interconnected by gears. Pivotal motion of the lever arm is transmitted to the phalanges through the interconnected phalanges and lever arm and rotation of the gears. The palm subassembly also includes a finger-spacing plate that fixes the relative positions of the fingers, and a finger orientation plate that, when rotated, changes the orientations of the fingers and the planes through which they bend. This makes it possible to selectively converge the tips of only two of the fingers, three of the fingers or to bend all of the fingers in an interdigitating manner.
Claims We claim: 1. A mechanical hand assembly for gripping an object in prosthetic and robotics applications comprising: a plurality of fingers, each finger including a base, a plurality of pivotally interconnected phalanges and means for bending/straightening said plurality of fingers to simulate human finger movement; an annular palm subassembly including means for engaging each said finger base and holding said fingers in relative, spaced operative positions substantially around a periphery of said annular palm subassembly and means, moveable relative to said engaging means, for actuating said finger bending/straightening means in concert, movement of said actuating means in a first direction bending all of said fingers and movement of said actuating means in a second direction straightening all of said fingers; and means for selectively driving said actuating means in said first and second directions. 2. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said actuating means includes a central plate operatively linked to all said finger bending/straightening means. 3. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 2 further including means for shape-adapting the bending of said fingers to conform to the object being gripped. 4. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said shape-adapting means includes a pivotal linkage between said driving means and said central plate allowing tilting of said central plate whereby when one of said fingers engages said object, said central plate tilts allowing further movement of said central plate and closing on said object of all remaining, opposed fingers. 5. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein each finger base includes a cylindrical stem and said finger base engaging means includes a finger spacing plate with apertures fitted to receive for relative rotary movement said cylindrical stem from each of said finger bases thereby allowing rotation of said finger bases. 6. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 5 wherein each of said fingers includes an outermost tip and said assembly further includes means for rotating said finger bases in said finger-spacing plate whereby orientations of the planes through which the fingers bend may be adjusted to selectively effect three cooperative bending relationships: in a first of said relationships said outermost tips of exactly two of said fingers converge; in a second said outermost tips of three of said fingers converge; and in a third all said fingers bend along parallel planes in an interdigitating manner. 7. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 6 wherein said finger base rotating means includes: an annular finger orientation plate including irregularly shaped grooves therein; an eccentric cam extending from each said finger base stem, the positions of said cams defining the orientation of said finger bases as determined by said cams engaging and riding in said irregularly shaped grooves; means for rotating said finger orientation plate whereby the positions of said cams are changed, rotating said finger bases and adjusting the orientations of the planes through which the fingers bend. 8. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 7 wherein said finger orientation plate rotating means includes: a drive shaft; gear teeth on an outer edge of said finger orientation plate; gear means on said drive shaft for engaging said teeth on said edge of said finger orientation plate whereby said finger orientation plate is rotated; and clutch means for releasably coupling said selective driving means to said finger orientation plate drive shaft. 9. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 8 wherein: said driving means includes a reversible electric motor and a clutch assembly coupled to an output shaft of said electric motor. 10. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said bending/straightening means includes: a lever arm pivotally connected to each finger base; means for operatively interconnecting said lever arm and said phalanges including intermeshing gears mounted on said lever arm and said phalanges; means for pivoting said lever arm whereby relative pivoting of said phalanges and bending of said fingers is provided in a manner so as to simulate human finger movement. 11. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 10 wherein each of said fingers includes a first phalange pivotally connected at a proximal end to said base, a second phalange pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of said first phalange, and a third phalange pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of said second phalange and wherein said intermeshing gears include one non-rotary gear mounted on said lever arm, two rotary gears mounted in series on said second phalange, and one non-rotary gear mounted on said third phalange. 12. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 11 wherein ratios are selected between said intermeshing gears to cause said pivoting of said third phalange to be greater than said pivoting of said second phalange, and said pivoting of said second phalange to be greater than said pivoting of said first phalange during said bending/straightening of said finger. 13. A mechanical hand assembly for gripping an object in prosthetic and robotic applications comprising: a plurality of fingers, each finger including a base, a lever arm and first phalange both pivotally connected to said base, a second phalange pivotally connected to a distal end of said first phalange and a third phalange pivotally connected to a distal end of said second phalange; each of said bases further including a cylindrical stem and an eccentric cam extending from said stem; a palm subassembly including both a finger-spacing plate with apertures fitted to receive said cylindrical stems and a finger orientation plate with irregularly shaped grooves receiving said eccentric cams; a central plate mechanically linked to all of said fingers, movement of said central plate in a first direction actuating bending of all of said fingers together, movement in a second direction actuating straightening of all of said fingers; an electric motor driving said central plate in said first and second directions; intermeshing gears for operatively interconnecting said lever arm and said first, second and third phalanges including a non-rotary gear mounted on said lever arm, two rotary gears mounted in series on said second phalange and a non-rotary gear mounted on said third phalange; a drive shaft imparting rotary motion to said finger orientation plate; and clutch means for releasably coupling said electric motor to said finger orientation plate drive shaft. 14. The mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 13, further including means for shape-adapting the bending of said fingers to conform to the object being handled. 15. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 14 wherein said shape-adapting means includes a pivotal linkage connecting said drive means and said central plate whereby when one of said fingers engages said object, said central plate tilts allowing further movement of said central plate and closing of all remaining, opposed fingers. 16. A mechanical hand assembly for gripping an object in prosthetic and robotics applications comprising: a plurality of fingers, each finger including a base having a cylindrical stem, a plurality of pivotally interconnected phalanges and means for bending/straightening said plurality of fingers to simulate human finger movement; a palm subassembly including means for engaging each said finger base and holding said fingers in relative, spaced operative positions and means for actuating said finger bending/straightening means, movement of said actuating means in a first direction bending all of said fingers and movement of said actuating means in a second direction straightening all of said fingers; means for selectively driving said actuating means in said first and second directions; said finger base engaging means including a finger spacing plate with apertures fitted to receive for relative rotary movement said cylindrical stem from each of said finger bases thereby allowing rotation of said finger bases; and means for rotating said finger bases in said finger-spacing plate including an annular finger orientation plate having irregularly shaped grooves therein, an eccentric cam extending from each said finger base stem, the positions of said cams defining the orientation of said finger bases as determined by said cams engaging and riding in said irregularly shaped grooves, and means for rotating said finger orientation plate whereby the positions of said cams are changed, rotating said finger bases and adjusting the orientations of the planes through which the fingers bend. 17. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 16 wherein said finger orientation plate rotating means includes: a drive shaft; gear teeth on an outer edge of said finger orientation plate; gear means on said drive shaft for engaging said teeth on said edge of said finger orientation plate whereby said finger orientation plate is rotated; and clutch means for releasably coupling said selective driving means to said finger orientation plate drive shaft. 18. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein: said driving means includes a reversible electric motor and a clutch assembly coupled to an output shaft of said electric motor. 19. A mechanical hand assembly for gripping an object in prosthetic and robotics applications comprising: a plurality of fingers, each finger including a base; a first phalange pivotally connected at a proximal end to said base, a second phalange pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of said first phalange, and a third phalange pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of said second phalange; a palm subassembly including means for engaging each said finger base and holding said fingers in relative, spaced operative positions and means for actuating said finger bending/straightening means, movement of said actuating means in a first direction bending all of said fingers and movement of said actuating means in a second direction straightening all of said fingers; means for selectively driving said actuating means in said first and second directions; said bending/straightening means including a lever arm pivotally connected to each finger base, means for operatively interconnecting said lever arm and said phalanges including intermeshing gears mounted on said lever arm and said phalanges; said intermeshing gears including one non-rotary gear mounted on said lever arm, two rotary gears mounted in series on said second phalange, and one non-rotary gear mounted on said third phalange; and means for pivoting said lever arm whereby relative pivoting of said phalanges and bending of said fingers is provided in a manner so as to simulate human finger movement. 20. A mechanical hand assembly as set forth in claim 19 wherein ratios are selected between said intermeshing gears to cause said pivoting of said third phalange to be greater than said pivoting of said second phalange, and said pivoting of said second phalange to be greater than said pivoting of said first phalange during said bending/straightening of said finger. 