Disclosed is a method and system for inverse planning of radiosurgery of tumors. Isocenter points are replaced systematically throughout a model of a tumor to generate a sequence of simulated radiation beams. This crossing geometry and intersection pattern of these beams is then computed. Through fine tuning of certain variables used in the calculations in accordance with the present invention, radiosurgery is planned in a manner which avoids over irradiation of healthy tissue and critical regions, and allows for homogeneity of dose inside the tumor. The method of the present invention allows for exact decision about the feasibility of use-defined dose distributions.
Claims I claim: 1. A radiosurgery treatment planning method for simulating radiation treatment of tumorous tissue, comprising the steps of: mapping a volume of tumorous tissue requiring irradiation and other regions to generate a model having a curvature; distinguishing between tumorous tissue regions of said model requiring a predetermined dose of radiation and said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; positioning at least several isocenter points in a distributed manner so that they can be superimposed upon said model of said mapped tumorous tissue requiring irradiation; simulating radiation beams passing through said isocenter points; and determining which regions of said tumorous tissue received said predetermined dose of radiation by identifying first cells formed by crossing simulated radiation beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon said simulating step, received a maximum number of radiation beams passing therethrough. 2. A method as recited in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: identifying second cells formed by crossing simulated beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon said simulating step, received a minimum number of radiation beams passing therethrough. 3. A method as recited in claim 2 further comprising the step of weighing said maximum and minimum radiation dose values. 4. A method as recited in claim 3 further comprising the steps of: comparing said first cells with said model of said tumorous tissue; determining whether said first cells and said model of said tumorous tissue occupy similarly shaped volumes. 5. A method as recited in claim 4 wherein in the event that said first cells and said model of said tumorous tissue do not occupy similarly shaped volumes, said method further comprising of repeating the method after and including said simulating step. 6. A method as recited in claim 3 further comprising the steps of: comparing said second cells with said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; and determining whether said second cells and said other regions occupy similarly shaped volumes. 7. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said mapping step includes the steps of providing CT scans of said volume of tumorous tissue requiring irradiation and its surrounding regions for graphic display as an image on a computer screen. 8. A method as recited in claim 7 wherein said mapping step further comprises the step of viewing said CT scan image in planar slices. 9. A method as recited in claim 8 wherein said distinguishing step includes the step of forming polygonal outlines at the circumference of said image representing said tumorous tissue. 10. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said distinguishing step which includes distinguishing tumorous regions from other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation is performed in a manner which includes distinguishing tumorous regions from healthy tissue and critical regions. 11. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said model has a surface and wherein said step of positioning isocenter points in a distributed manner includes imposing as a grid of points the surface of said model. 12. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said positioning step includes imposing a line segment of points following the curvature of said model. 13. A radiosurgery treatment planning method for simulating radiation treatment of tumorous tissue, comprising the steps of: mapping a volume of tumorous tissue requiring irradiation and other regions to generate a model; distinguishing between tumorous tissue regions of said model requiring a predetermined dose of radiation and said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; simulating radiation beams; identifying first cells formed by simulating the crossing of said simulated radiation beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon simulated treatment, receive a maximum number of radiation beams passing therethrough; and identifying second cells formed by crossing simulated radiation beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon simulated treatment, received a minimum number of radiation beams passing therethrough. 14. A method as recited in claim 13 further comprising the step of weighing said maximum and minimum radiation dose radiation beam dosage values. 15. A method as recited in claim 14 further comprising the steps of: comparing said first cells with said model of said tumorous tissue; determining whether said first cells and said model of said tumorous tissue occupy similarly shaped volumes. 16. A method as recited in claim 15 further comprising the steps of: comparing said second cells with said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; and determining whether said second cells and said other regions occupy similarly shaped volumes. 17. A radiosurgery treatment planning apparatus for simulating radiation treatment of tumorous tissue, comprising: means for mapping a volume of tumorous tissue requiring irradiation and other regions to generate a model having a curvature; means for distinguishing between tumorous tissue regions of said model requiring a predetermined dose of radiation and said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; means for positioning at least several isocenter points in a distributed manner so that they can be superimposed upon said model of said mapped tumorous tissue requiring irradiation; means for simulating radiation beams passing through said isocenter points; and means for determining which regions of said tumorous tissue received said predetermined dose of radiation through the identification of first cells formed by crossing simulated radiation beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon said simulation of radiation beams, received a maximum number of simulated radiation beams passing therethrough. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 17 further comprising: means for identifying second cells formed by crossing simulated beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon said simulating step, received a minimum number of radiation beams passing therethrough. 19. An apparatus as recited in claim 18 further comprising: means for weighing said maximum and minimum radiation dose radiation beam dosage values. 20. An apparatus as recited in claim 19 further comprising: means for comparing said first cells with said model of said tumorous tissue; means for determining whether said first cells and said model of said tumorous tissue occupy similarly shaped volumes. 21. An apparatus as recited in claim 19 further comprising: means for comparing said second cells with said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; and means determining whether said second cells and said other regions occupy similarly shaped volumes. 22. An apparatus as recited in claim 17 wherein said means for mapping includes means for providing CT scans of said volume of tumorous tissue requiring irradiation and its surrounding regions for graphic display as an image on a computer screen. 23. An apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said means for mapping further comprises means for viewing said CT scan image in planar slices. 24. An apparatus as recited in claim 23 wherein said means for distinguishing includes means for forming polygonal outlines at the circumference of said image representing said tumorous tissue. 25. An apparatus as recited in claim 17 wherein said means for distinguishing between tumorous regions of said model and other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation includes means for distinguishing between tumorous regions of said model and healthy tissue and critical regions. 26. An apparatus as recited in claim 17 wherein said model has a surface and said means for positioning includes means for imposing as a grid of points the surface of said model. 27. An apparatus as recited in claim 17 wherein said means for positioning said isocenter points in a distributed manner includes means for imposing a line segment of points or sequence of line segments following the curvature of said model. 28. A radiosurgery treatment planning apparatus for simulating radiation treatment of tumorous tissue, comprising: means for mapping a volume of tumorous tissue requiring irradiation and other regions to generate a model; means for distinguishing between tumorous tissue regions of said model requiring a predetermined dose of radiation and said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; means for generating simulated radiation beams; means for identifying first cells formed by crossing said simulated radiation beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon simulated treatment, receive a maximum number of radiation beams passing therethrough; and means for identifying second cells formed by crossing simulated radiation beams within said model of said tumorous tissue which, upon simulated treatment, received a minimum number of radiation beams passing therethrough. 29. An apparatus as recited in claim 28 further comprising means for weighing said maximum and minimum radiation dose radiation beam dosage values. 30. An apparatus as recited in claim 29 further comprising: means for comparing said first cells with said model of said tumorous tissue; means for determining whether said first cells and said model of said tumorous tissue occupy similarly shaped volumes. 31. An apparatus as recited in claim 30 further comprising: means for comparing said second cells with said other regions requiring less than said predetermined dose of radiation; and means for determining whether said second cells and said other regions occupy similarly shaped volumes. 