A platform is mounted by bellows, at least one for each degree of freedom (DOF) of the platform. The bellows may provide either an active or a passive mounting for the platform. By arranging a suitable number of such bellows in supporting relationship a platform or floater for example six degrees freedom can be provided. Using pneumatic bellows in opposed pairs, one pair for each degree of freedom and by controlling the pressure in (and flow to) the bellows selected forces may be applied to the platform to accurately position the platform or to provide feedback for a sensory control e.g. as reflected force applied to the joystick. The position and orientation of the platform, i.e. movement of the platform, may be used to generate signals for example as in a joystick. Sensing the pressure in each of the bellows of each of the pairs permits the forces being applied by or to the platform to be monitored.
Claims We claim: 1. A mounting system for mounting a platform to a stator comprising at least one counteracting pair of bellows means connected to and acting between said stator and said platform for each degree of freedom of movement of said platform, each of said bellows means of said counteracting pair being arranged on opposite sides of at least portions of said platform and including a bellows that is expandable, contractible and deformable, said bellows means further including a rotatable connection to at least one of said platform and said stator such that rotation of a first end of said bellows relative to a second end of said bellows about a longitudinal axis of said bellows is prevented so that said bellows means may be expanded and contracted axially and curved in a direction deviating from its respective longitudinal axis without said relative rotation of said first end and second ends about its longitudinal axis, said bellows means further including a sealed chamber containing said bellows and a shaft extending from said first end of said bellows which is a sealed end contained within said sealed chamber, through said bellows and out of the second end of said bellows remote from said sealed end, one of said chamber and said shaft being connected to said platform in force transmitting relationship and the other of said shaft and said chamber being connected to said stator in force transmitting relationship. 2. The mounting system as defined in claim 1 wherein said bellows means of each said counteracting pair are axially aligned when said platform is in a neutral position. 3. The mounting system as defined in claim 2 further comprising means for controlling pneumatic pressure within said sealed chamber of each of said bellows means. 4. The mounting system as defined in claim 3 wherein said means for controlling the pressure in each of said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means comprises means for sensing pressure in each of said bellows means, means for applying a predetermined air pressure to each of said bellows means and means for selectively bleeding air applied to each of said bellow means at a selected rate to provide a desired difference in pressure in said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means. 5. The mounting system as defined in claim 1 wherein said platform has at least 4 degrees of freedom and wherein said rotatable connection is provided by bearing means to permit rotation of each of said bellows means about its longitudinal axis relative to one of said platform and said stator. 6. The mounting system as defined in claim 5 wherein said platform has six degrees of freedom and wherein six pairs of bellows means are arranged about said platform and wherein a first three of said counteracting pairs of bellows means are arranged substantially parallel to a first plane and wherein three others of said counteracting pairs are arranged on axes substantially perpendicular to said plane and wherein said each of said three others is positioned intermediate different adjacent counteracting pairs of said first three counteracting pairs. 7. The mounting system as defined in claim 6 further comprising means for controlling pneumatic pressure within said sealed chamber of each of said bellows means. 8. The mounting system as defined in claim 7 wherein said means for controlling the pressure in each of said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means comprises means for sensing pressure in each of said bellows means, means for applying a predetermined air pressure to each of said bellows means and means for selectively bleeding air applied to each of said bellows means at a selected rate to provide a desired difference in pressure in said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means. 9. The mounting system as defined in claim 8 further comprising means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform. 10. The mounting system as defined in claim 7 further comprising means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform. 11. The mounting system as defined in claim 5 further comprising means for controlling pneumatic pressure within said sealed chamber of each of said bellows means. 12. The mounting system as defined in claim 11 wherein said means for controlling the pressure in each of said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means comprises means for sensing pressure in each of said bellows means, means for applying a predetermined air pressure to each of said bellows means and means for selectively bleeding air applied to each of said bellows means at a selected rate to provide a desired difference in pressure in said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means. 13. The mounting system as defined in claim 11 further comprising means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform. 14. The mounting system as defined in claim 11 wherein said means for controlling pressure within each of said sealed chambers comprises means for sensing pressure in each of said sealed chambers, means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform, and processor means for controlling the pressure in each of said sealed chambers. 15. The mounting system as defined in claim 5 further comprising means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform. 16. The mounting system as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for controlling pneumatic pressure within said sealed chamber of each of said bellows means. 17. The mounting system as defined in claim 16 wherein said means for controlling the pressure in each of said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means comprises means for sensing pressure in each of said bellows means, means for applying a predetermined air pressure to each of said bellows means and means for selectively bleeding air applied to each of said bellows means at a selected rate to provide a desired difference in pressure in said bellows means of said at least one counteracting pair of bellows means. 18. The mounting system as defined in claim 17 further comprising means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform. 19. The mounting system as defined in claim 16 wherein said means for controlling pressure within each of said sealed chambers comprises means for sensing pressure in each of said sealed chambers, means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform, and processor means for controlling the pressure in each of said sealed chambers. 20. The mounting system as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing the position and orientation of said platform. 