A method and apparatus for computer retrieval of database material which may be text, computer programs, graphics, audio, object classes, action specifications or other material which may be machine stored. Annotations are provided for at least selected database subdivisions, preferably with natural language questions, assertions or noun phrases or some combination/collection thereof. However, the annotations may also initially be generated in a structured form. Annotations are, if required, converted to a structured form and are stored in that form along with connections to corresponding subdivisions. Searching for relevant subdivisions involves entering a query in natural language or structured form, converting natural language queries to structured form, matching the structured form query against stored annotations and retrieving database subdivisions connected to matched annotations. The annotation process may be aided by utilizing various techniques for automatically or semiautomatically generating the annotations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for facilitating computer retrieval of database material comprising the steps of: selecting subdivisions for the material; generating for each of said subdivisions which is to be recovered at least one annotation containing words having a selected annotator determined relationship and being in a language selected from the group of a natural language and an artificial language; storing the annotations in a predetermined structured form which retains said selected relationship, the, stored annotations being readable by a computer to search for desired annotations; and adding to the stored annotations a connection to corresponding material subdivisions. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said generating step includes the step of generating said annotations in said structured form. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said generating step includes the step of generating said annotations in a natural language; and wherein said storing step includes the step of translating the annotations in natural language to said predetermined structured form. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the natural language for said annotations is different than the natural language of said text. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the annotations for a given subdivision are a collection of one or more questions, assertions and noun phrases. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said database material includes at least one of textual material, graphic material, audio material, programming material and specification material of actions to be taken in response to a given command. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said generating step includes the step of generating annotations at least semiautomatically. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said storing step includes the step of storing with each annotation one or more pointers for subdivisions to which the annotation is relevant. 9. A method as claimed in claim 1 including the step of searching stored annotations to find relevant subdivisions. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said searching step includes the step of presenting a search input in structured form, matching the structured form search input to the annotations stored during said storing step, and presenting subdivisions connected to matching annotations found during said matching step. 11. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said searching step includes the steps of presenting a natural language search input, translating the search input into said predetermined structured form, matching the structured form search input to the annotations stored during said storing step, and presenting subdivisions connected to matching annotations found during said matching step. 12. A method as claimed in claim 9 including the steps of storing a standing query, and examining new stored annotations to determine correspondence to said standing query. 13. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the method is being employed to at least semiautomatically perform an "answer desk" function on queries received from one or more sources, the step of searching stored annotations being performed for received queries to find an appropriate response, the query being referred to a person for response if an appropriate response is not found during the searching step. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13 including the step of automatically adding the person's response to the query as a database subdivision, and adding in a selected form the query as an annotation for such subdivision. 15. A system for facilitating computer retrieval of database material comprising: means for selecting subdivisions for the database material means for generating for each of said subdivisions which is to be recovered at least one annotation containing words having a selected annotator determined relationship and being in a language selected from the group of a natural language and an artificial language; means for storing the annotations in a predetermined structured form which retains said selected relationship, the stored annotations being readable by a computer to search for desired annotations and means for adding to stored annotations a connection to corresponding material subdivisions. 16. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said means for generating generates said annotations in said structured form. 17. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said means for generating generates said annotations in a natural language; and wherein said means for storing includes means for translating the annotations in natural language to said predetermined structured form. 18. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein the annotations for a given subdivision are a collection of one or more questions, assertions and noun phrases. 19. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said database material includes at least one textural material, graphic material, audio material, programming material and specification material of actions to be taken in response to a given command. 20. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said means for generating includes means for generating annotations at least semiautomatically. 21. A system as claimed in claim 15 wherein said means for storing includes means for storing with each annotation one or more pointers for subdivisions to which the annotation is relevant. 22. A system as claimed in claim 15 including means for searching stored annotations to find relevant subdivisions. 23. A system as claimed in claim 22 wherein said means for searching includes means for presenting a search input in structured form, means for matching the structured form search input to the annotations stored during said storing step, and means for presenting subdivisions connected to matching annotations. 24. A system as claimed in claim 22 wherein said means for searching includes means for presenting a natural language search input, means for translating the search input into said predetermined structured form, means for matching the structured form search input to the annotations stored during said storing step, and means for presenting subdivisions connected to matching annotations found during said matching step. 25. A system as claimed in claim 22 including means for storing a standing query, and means for examining new stored annotations to determine correspondence to said standing query. 26. A system as claimed in claim 22 including means for receiving queries from one or more sources, means for referring a query to a person if an appropriate response is not found to such query by said means for searching, the person generating a response to the query which is entered into the system, means for automatically adding the person's response to a query as a database subdivision, and means for adding the query in a selected form as an annotation for the added database subdivision. 