A cap for sealing pressure vessels is disclosed. The present invention permits a nominal closure to be formed by hand tightening and a substantially higher force to be applied to a cap by a separate clamp mechanism, thereby forming a pressure seal. In certain preferred embodiments, means for providing a process flow through a hole in the seal and filtering means are also provided as part of the cap assembly. A preferred application of the cap of the present invention is for the sealing of sample vessels used for supercritical fluid extraction of compounds from a solid matrix for subsequent chemical analysis. Methods of supercritical fluid extraction are also disclosed. The present invention thus provides methods and apparatus whereby the placement of a sample into a pressurized system may be automated and monitored to ensure adequate seals have been created and maintained within such pressurized systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of creating a high pressure seal by applying a cap to a vessel, the vessel having a threaded portion and a sealing surface around the inside diameter of the vessel, and the cap having an outer body portion having body portion threads and an opening exposing an inner sealing material movable relative to the body portion, the method comprising the steps of: applying said cap to said vessel; engaging said threaded portion of the vessel with said body portion threads by rotating the cap relative to the vessel; and applying an external force directly to the inner sealing material through the opening such that no force is transmitted to the body portion, wherein the sealing material moves relative to the body portion to form a high pressure seal with the sealing surface on the inside diameter of the vessel. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of sensing the force applied to said sealing material. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of continuously monitoring the force applied to said sealing material to determine the sufficiency with which said container is sealed. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of applying a controlled force to said sealing material. 5. A method of extracting compounds from a solid matrix using a pressurized fluid comprising: (a) providing a sample vessel having two ends comprising means formed thereon to receive a seal; (b) forming a nominal seal between said sample vessel and a first cap applied to a first end of the sample vessel; (c) loading a solid sample into said sample vessel; (d) forming a nominal seal between said sample vessel and a second cap applied to a second end of the sample vessel; (e) applying a compressive force to said first and second caps to create a high pressure seal by urging a force-applying member against at least one of the first and second caps and providing resistance in a direction opposite the compressive force; and (f) pumping solvent through said vessel to perform the extraction of compounds from said solid matrix. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said high pressure seal of said first and second ends is formed by the relative motion between a sealing material disposed within the end cap at each of said ends and a body portion of each of the end caps that is engaged with the sample vessel. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said end caps are installed with a torque less than that achieved by hand tightening. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the solvent is pumped through said end caps. 9. The method of claim 5 further comprising the step of regulating the temperature of said vessel. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said extraction fluid is a supercritical fluid. 11. A method of extracting components from a liquid matrix comprising: (a) providing a sample vessel having two ends comprising means formed thereon to receive a seal and containing a granular packing material; (b) forming a nominal seal between said sample vessel and a cap applied to a first end of the sample vessel; (c) applying a compressive force to said cap to create a high pressure seal by urging a force-applying member against the cap and providing resistance in a direction opposite the compressive force; (d) flowing a liquid sample through said sample vessel, whereby one or more components are retained by the granular packing material within the sample vessel; and (e) pumping extraction fluid through said vessel to perform the extraction of components from said granular packing material, whereby said components are dissolved from said packing material and collected in concentrated form. 12. A method of filtering particulate from a fluid stream comprising: (a) providing a sample vessel comprising means for engaging a seal and to be transferred to an extraction instrument; (b) forming a nominal seal between said sample vessel and a cap applied to a first end of the sample vessel; (c) applying a compressive force to said nominal seal by urging a force-applying member against the vessel wherein the vessel resists the force-applying member; (d) directing said fluid stream into said sample vessel; and (e) forming a nominal seal at another end of said vessel using a cap comprising a filter element. 