A control system for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle is disclosed. The work implement includes a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder. A position sensor produces respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket. A pressure sensor produces respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders. A microprocessor receives the position and pressure signals, and produces a command signal. An electrohydraulic system receives the command signal and controllably actuates predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle. The microprocessor determines the external force applied to the bucket and the angle of the bucket force, compares the angle of the bucket force to a predetermined value, and responsively determines when a digging portion of the work cycle is complete.
Claims I claim: 1. A control system for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle, the work implement including a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, the control system comprising: position sensing means for producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; pressure sensing means for producing respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; means for receiving the position and pressure signals, and producing a command signal; actuating means for receiving the command signal and controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle; and logic means for determining the external force applied to the bucket and the angle of the bucket force, comparing the angle of the bucket force to a predetermined value, and responsively determining when a digging portion of the work cycle is complete. 2. A control system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the logic means includes means for determining when the bucket is heeling in response to comparing the angle of the bucket force to a predetermined value. 3. A control system, as set forth in claim 2, including means for receiving the pressure signals and responsively computing a correlative force signal for each of the boom, stick and bucket hydraulic cylinders, wherein the command signal is produced in response to the hydraulic cylinder forces. 4. A control system, as set forth in claim 3, wherein the logic means includes means for determining the moment arm of the external force applied to the bucket relative to the point of rotation of the bucket. 5. A control system, as set forth in claim 4, including an operator interface means for displaying the external force magnitude and direction, and indicating when the bucket is heeling. 6. A method for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle, the work implement including a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, comprising the following steps: producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; producing respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; receiving the position and pressure signals, and responsively producing a command signal; receiving the command signal and controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle; and determining an external force applied to the bucket and the angle of the bucket force, comparing the angle of the bucket force to a predetermined value, and responsively determining when a digging portion of the work cycle is complete. 7. A method, as set forth in claim 6, including the step of determining when the bucket is heeling in response to the step of comparing the angle of the bucket force to a predetermined value. 8. A method, as set forth in claim 7, including the step of receiving the pressure signals and responsively computing a correlative force signal for each of the boom, stick and bucket hydraulic cylinders, wherein the step of producing the command signal includes the step of receiving the force signals. 9. A method, as set forth in claim 8, including the step of determining the moment arm of the external force applied to the bucket relative to the point of rotation of the bucket. 10. A method, as set forth in claim 9, including the steps of displaying the external force magnitude and direction, and indicating when the bucket is heeling. 11. A control system for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle, the work implement including a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, the control system comprising: position sensing means for producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; pressure sensing means for producing respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; means for receiving the position and pressure signals, and producing a command signal; actuating means for receiving the command signal and controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle; and logic means for determining the external force applied to the bucket and the angle of the bucket force, comparing the angle of the bucket force to a predetermined value, determining the moment arm of the external force applied to the bucket relative to the point of rotation of the bucket, and responsively determining when a digging portion of the work cycle is complete. 12. A method for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle, the work implement including a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, comprising the following steps: producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; producing respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; receiving the position and pressure signals, and responsively producing a command signal; receiving the command signal and controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle; and determining the external force applied to the bucket and the angle of the bucket force, comparing the angle of the bucket force to a predetermined value, determining the moment arm of the external force applied to the bucket relative to the point of rotation of the bucket, and responsively determining when a digging portion of the work cycle is complete. 