A system and method for cleaning or removing coatings, such as paint, from a surface with a stream of particles. A carbon dioxide (CO.sub.2) pelletizer forms carbon dioxide pellets, which are delivered by a delivery system against a surface to be cleaned. The delivery system includes a hopper for containing the pellets and a high pressure air supply. A feeder introduces the pellets from the hopper into the high pressure air. The combined high pressure air and pellets are directed along a delivery hose to a nozzle, which directs the air and pellets against a surface to be cleaned. Temperature sensors are provided to monitor the temperature of the pressurized air at various points in the delivery system. Signals from the temperature sensor are provided in a feedback control manner to a control valve. The control valve controls the introduction of liquid nitrogen (N.sub.2) into the air stream at a mixing chamber in the delivery system. In accordance with the invention, the temperature sensors and feedback controls permit maintenance of the temperature of the high pressure air below the sublimation temperature of the pellets as the pellets are delivered by the delivery system, thereby prolonging the life of the pellets and reducing sublimation prior to ejection from the nozzle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for cleaning a surface, comprising: means for forming frozen pellets for use as blasting media; means for delivering said pellets against a surface to be cleaned; and means for controlling the temperature within at least a portion of said delivery means to a temperature below the sublimation point of frozen pellets comprising: means for monitoring the temperature in a conduit in said delivering means, means responsive to signals from said temperature monitoring means for controlling a coolant injection valve, and a source of coolant connected to said coolant injection valve, whereby when the temperature in said conduit exceeds a predetermined temperature of about -120.degree. F., said coolant injection valve opens to introduce coolant into said conduit to maintain the temperature below the sublimation point of said frozen pellets. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said delivering means comprises: collecting means for collecting said pellets; supply means for supplying pressurized air; introducing means for introducing said pellets from said collecting means into a stream pressurized air supplied by said supplying means; a conduit having opposing ends, said conduit connected at one end to said introducing means for receipt of said pellets and said pressurized air; and a nozzle connected to the opposing end of said conduit. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said temperature controlling means comprises means for cooling said pressurized air. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said cooling means comprises means for injecting coolant into said stream of pressurized air. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said coolant is liquid nitrogen. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein said forming means comprises a carbon dioxide pelletizer. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein said collecting means comprises a hopper. 8. The system of claim 2, wherein said introducing means comprises a rotary feeder. 9. The system of claim 2, wherein said nozzle is a single hose nozzle. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said pellets are cylindrically shaped. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said pellets are 0.040 inches in diameter. 12. A system for cleaning a surface comprising: forming means forming carbon dioxide pellets; collecting means for collecting said pellets; supply means for supplying pressurized air; introducing means for introducing said pellets from said collecting means into a stream of high pressure air supplied by said supplying means; a conduit having opposing ends, said conduit connected at one end to said introducing means for receipt of said pellets and said pressurized air; a high pressure nozzle connected to the opposing end of said conduit; cooling means for cooling said high pressure air; and a control means comprising means for monitoring the temperature in the interior of said conduit, and means responsive to signals from said temperature monitoring means for controlling said cooling means to maintain a predetermined temperature of about -120.degree. F. of said high pressure air. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said forming means comprises a carbon dioxide pelletizer. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said pellets are 0.040 inches in diameter. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein said collecting means comprises a hopper. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein said supply means is an air compressor. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein said introducing means comprises a rotary feeder. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein said nozzle is a single hose nozzle. 19. The system of claim 12, wherein said cooling means comprises an injection means for injecting coolant into said stream of high pressure air. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein said injecting means comprises a valve. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein said coolant is liquid nitrogen. 22. The system of claim 12, wherein said pellets are cylindrically shaped. 23. A method for cleaning a surface, comprising the steps of: forming pellets made of carbon dioxide; collecting the pellets in a hopper; providing a source of pressurized air; introducing the pressurized air into a feeder; introducing the pellets from the hopper into the feeder to combine the pellets and the pressurized air; maintaining the temperature of the pressurized air at a predetermined temperature level comprising the steps of: measuring the temperature of the pressurized air; and controlling the introduction of a coolant into the pressurized air in correspondence with the temperature of the pressurized air, to maintain the temperature below the sublimation point of carbon dioxide; and propelling the pellets onto a surface to be cleaned. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the pellets are cylindrically shaped. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein said pellets are 0.040 inches in diameter. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the pellets are propelled by means of a nozzle against the surface to be cleaned. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of maintaining the temperature comprises injecting coolant into the pressurized air. 