A rehabilitation system employs a force feedback system, such as a force feedback glove, to simulate virtual deformable objects. Prior to rehabilitation, the patient places his or her hand in a sensing glove which measures the force exertable by the patient's digits. Information from the sensing glove is received by an interface and transmitted to a computer where the information can be used to diagnose the patient's manual capability. The computer generates rehabilitation control signals for a force feedback glove. The patient places his or her hand in the force feedback glove and attempts to bring the digits together as though grasping the virtual object. The force feedback glove resists the squeezing movement of the digits in a manner that simulates the tactile feel of the virtual object. The force exerted by the fingers of the patient is fed back to the computer control system where it can be recorded and/or used to modify future rehabilitation control signals. The basic concept of rehabilitation in virtual environment with force feedback can also be applied to other appendages of the human body including arms, legs, neck, knees, elbows and other articulated joints.
Claims We claim: 1. A rehabilitation system for rehabilitating a human appendage, said system comprising: means for measuring position and force exerted by a human appendage, instruction means receiving said measurement of said position and force exerted by said human appendages and providing rehabilitation control signals; and force feedback rehabilitation means connected to said instruction means and attachable to said human appendages for manipulating said appendage in response to said rehabilitation control signals and feeding back to said instruction means feedback signals in response to the force exerted by said human appendages against said rehabilitation means. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said rehabilitation means comprises a force feedback glove which is worn on said appendage. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said force feedback glove includes: digit force measuring means for measuring the force exerted by at least a first digit of said hand; and, digit manipulation means for manipulating said first digit, wherein the force measured by said digit force measuring means is detected by said instruction means and employed to modify the force exerted by said digital manipulation means. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said instruction means comprises: an interface means connected to said force feedback glove; and, a programmable computer connected to said interface means. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said instruction means provides said rehabilitation control signals to said force feedback glove which causes said glove to simulate the reaction force of grasping a solid object. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said force measurement means comprises; a sensing glove means connected to said instruction means for detecting the force exertable by said hand prior to rehabilitation. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said instruction means includes diagnosis means for analyzing the output of said sensing glove means and producing a rehabilitation diagnosis in response thereto for implementation by said force feedback glove. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said sensing glove means comprises said force feedback glove. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said programmable computer includes an artificial intelligence program for performing said diagnosis means and said producing of said rehabilitation diagnosis. 10. The system of claim 9 further comprising a remote programmable computer connected to said programmable computer, said remote programmable computer including said instruction means. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said simulated solid comprises a virtual reality simulated object. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said virtual reality simulated object comprises a virtual sphere. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein said simulated solid object is deformable. 14. A rehabilitation method for use by a human appendage comprising the steps of: (a) detecting force exerted by said appendage on an object; (b) producing rehabilitation instructions in response to the detected force exerted by said appendage on said object; (c) feeding said rehabilitation instructions to a force producing means; and (d) exerting force with said force producing means on said appendage in response to said rehabilitation instructions. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of: (e) detecting the force exerted by said appendage prior to rehabilitation to produce diagnosis information; and, (f) producing rehabilitation instructions in response to said diagnosis information. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the force detected in step (a) is measured by a force feedback glove. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said rehabilitation instructions produced in step (b) comprise instructions for said force feedback glove to simulate a virtual object. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said virtual object comprises a sphere. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said virtual object comprises deformable sphere. 