An anatomically correct, humanlike, mechanical arm and hand is provided that an operator can control to perform with the dexterity and compliance of a human hand. Being humanlike and robotic enhances the device's control and gripper dexterity. Control of the movement of the arm and hand is performed or guided by a "teachglove" worn by the operator. As he or she performs some hand manipulation, a controller stores signals from sensors on the exoskeleton. The sensors monitor the operator's finger-joint movement positions. These values are later translated into actuator control signals for servomotors, eventually duplicating the operator's movement.
Claims Having described my invention, I claim: 1. A dexterous robotic arm comprising: a hand section, a wrist section including an articulated wrist joint, and a forearm section; said hand section comprising; four flexible fingers, a thumb, and a palm member; said fingers including an index finger, a middle finger, a ring finger and a little finger, each being comprised of a distal link, a middle link, a proximal link and a knuckle link, said thumb being comprised of a distal link, a middle link, a proximal link and a base link; said fingers, thumb, and the links thereof being respectively sized to replicate the geometric proportions of the length of the digital phalanges of a human hand; said palm member comprising, a knuckle bracket for mounting said four flexible fingers thereon, an inner and outer side bracket, said thumb being attached to said inner side bracket, and a wrist bracket attached to said articulated wrist joint; said wrist joint being pivotally attached to said wrist bracket by attachment means such that it is able to rotate said palm member in elevation and being pivotally attached to said forearm section by attachment means such that it is able to rotate laterally with respect to said forearm section about a pivot on said forearm section; said knuckle bracket includes a middle finger mounting point and when said hand section is viewed from above, said knuckle bracket includes a relatively shorter and a relatively longer bracket segment, each including respective finger mounting points and extending rearwardly from said middle finger mounting point toward said wrist bracket; said knuckle bracket further, when said hand section is viewed from the front, is inclined downward on each side of said middle finger mounting point; each said flexible finger further including three bending joints connecting its links and thereby allowing it to rotationally bend upwardly and downwardly at these joints and being pivotally attached to said knuckle bracket of said palm member by attachment means such that it is able to rotate laterally whereby the space between the flexible fingers increases and decreases; said thumb further including three bending joints connecting its links and thereby allowing it to rotationally bend at each joint and being located adjacent said wrist joint on said inner side bracket by a rotatable base joint which allows said thumb to sweep under said palm member so as to oppose a tip portion of a predetermined finger of said flexible fingers, said proximal link of said thumb additionally comprising a first pair of mutually rotatable link sections for providing a first angular adjustment of said thumb, and wherein said base link of said thumb comprises a second pair of mutually rotatable link sections for providing a second angular adjustment of said thumb, and wherein said first pair of link sections of said proximal link of said thumb comprises a mutually aligned lower proximal link section and an upper proximal link section and said second pair of link sections of said base link of said thumb comprises a mutually offset lower base link section and an upper base link section and wherein said lower proximal link section is connected to said middle link at a first of said three bending joints, said upper proximal link section is connected to said upper base link section at a second of said three bending joints, and said lower base joint section is connected to said rotatable base joint; and drive means coupled to each of said sections for effecting controlled movement of said sections, said drive means further comprising servo motors and cabling means coupled to said hand section and to each said link of said flexible fingers and thumb at one end and coupled to said servo motors at the opposite end, wherein said servo motors, when actuated, cause said cabling to push/pull and thereby move said hand section, said flexible fingers, and said thumb. 2. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 1 and additionally including means for controlling said drive means. 3. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 1 wherein said means for controlling said drive means comprises: an exoskeletal teaching glove having the shape and characteristics of a human hand and having sensors positioned about the periphery of said exoskeletal teaching glove, wherein said sensors monitor an operator's wrist, hand and finger-joint movements; actuator means for actuating said servo motors; and means for sending monitored signals from said sensors to said actuator means, whereby said hand section and said wrist section mimic the movement of said exoskeletal teaching glove. 4. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 2 wherein said means for controlling said drive means is an analog mechanism operating under real time conditions. 5. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 2 wherein said means for controlling said drive means is an analog mechanism coupled to a personal computer that will enable at least one of a motion record and replay for said hand section. 6. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 1 wherein said distal link of said fingers rotationally bends at an outermost joint of said three joints at a first rate of rotation, said middle link rotationally bends at an intermediate joint of said three joints at a second rate of rotation and wherein said first rate of rotation is equal to or greater than said second rate of rotation. 7. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 1 wherein said shorter bracket segment has a first angle of inclination referenced from a horizontal line passing over said middle finger mounting point when said hand section is viewed from above and said longer bracket segment has a second angle of inclination referenced from said horizontal line, and wherein said second angle is greater than said first angle. 8. The dexterous robotic arm is recited in claim 7 wherein said second angle is at least equal to twice said first angle. 9. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 8 wherein said first angle is at least equal to approximately 5.degree. and said second angle is at least equal to approximately 12.degree.. 10. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 1 wherein said hand section, when viewed from the front, is inclined downward on one side of said middle finger mounting joint by a first angle referenced from a horizontal line passing over said middle finger mounting point and inclined downward on the other side of said middle finger mounting joint by a second angle referenced from said horizontal line and wherein said first angle is less than said second angle. 11. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 10 wherein said first angle is at least equal to approximately 3.degree. and said second angle is at least equal to approximately 5.degree.. 12. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 1 wherein said attachment means to said wrist bracket for rotating the wrist joint upwardly and downwardly comprises a gear assembly. 13. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 12 wherein said gear assembly comprises a bevel gear assembly. 14. The dexterous robotic arm as recited in claim 1 and additionally including a motor driven elbow section coupled to said forearm section for rotating said forearm section about a central longitudinal axis passing through said forearm section. 