A legged mobile robot having a body and two legs each connected to the body. The robot is quipped with a mechanism for absorbing and moderating impacts produced by external forces during footfall or the like. The mechanism includes an elastic member interposed between the body and legs, or interposed between the leg links, or interposed between the distal end of the legs and foot portions. The robot further has a foot structure for enhancing the ground gripping force and absorbs the impacts. For enhancing the gripping force, the foot sole is provided, for example, with a first elastic member and second elastic member sandwiching a plate spring therebetween. The first elastic member absorbs the impacts, while the second elastic member enhancing the gripping force. The plate spring restrict the deformation of the elastic members in the direction vertical to the foot sole. The invention further includes a locomotion control system using one shock absorbing mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a legged mobile robot of the type having a body and a plurality of legs each connected to the body the improvement comprising: an impact absorption mechanism between the body and legs oriented to allow the body and the individual legs to be displaceable with respect to each other in the gravitational direction, for absorbing external forces acting on the body or the individual legs, the impact absorption mechanism comprising: an elastic member interposed between a portion of the body and a portion of each leg; a fastener extending through the elastic member and connecting the portion of the body and the portion of each leg; and a shaft encircling the fastener to limit movement of the fastener to vertical movement. 2. A robot according to claim 1, wherein the impact absorption mechanism further includes a spring interposed between the portion of the body and the portion of each leg. 3. In a legged mobile robot having a plurality of articulated legs each having a joint connecting a first link to a second link, the improvement comprising: an impact absorption mechanism at the joint and including an elastic member, for absorbing external forces acting between the first link and the second link with the joint including: a motor mounted on the first link; a drive having an input connected to an output shaft of the motor and an output connected to the second link wherein the impact absorption mechanism further comprises: a pin interposed between the output of the drive and the second link; a member having a hole for receiving the pin; and the elastic member positioned in the hole and contacting at least one side of the pin. 4. A robot according to claim 3, wherein the leg links are made displaceable with respect to each other about an axis of the joint. 5. A robot according to claim 3, wherein the hole is an oblong hole. 6. A robot according to claim 5, wherein the pin is sandwiched between the elastic member. 7. A robot according to claim 5, wherein the elastic member contacts the pin on two opposite sides. 8. A robot according to claim 5, wherein the elastic member is pre-compressed in the oblong hole. 9. A robot according to claim 5, wherein the hole is a square hole. 10. A robot according to claim 9, wherein the elastic member is a spring. 11. A robot according to claim 9, wherein the pin is square. 12. A robot according to claim 3, wherein the robot is a biped robot and the joint connecting the first and second leg links is a knee joint. 13. In a legged mobile robot of the type having a plurality of legs each having a foot, the improvement comprising: an impact absorption mechanism on the foot comprising: a cylinder mounted on a sole of the foot and forming a chamber; a piston slidably movable in the cylinder; fluid in the chamber; a piston rod having a ground contact member, the piston rod movable into the cylinder against the resistance of the fluid to absorb impact acting on the robot when the foot lands on the ground; and means for restricting the direction in which the piston moves. 14. In a legged mobile robot of the type having a plurality of legs with each leg having a foot, the improvement comprising: an impact absorption mechanism connecting each leg and foot, and including an elastic member to allow the leg and the foot to be displaceable with respect to each other in response to a moment or force to absorb impact acting when the foot lands on the ground, the impact absorption mechanism comprising an outer member mounted on the foot; an inner member within the outer member and connected to a distal end of each leg; and the elastic member placed between the outer member and the inner member. 15. A robot according to claim 14, wherein the inner member has a trough-like shape and a flanged end resting on the elastic member. 16. A robot according to claim 15, wherein the inner member is suspended over the foot. 17. A robot according to claim 15, wherein the flanged end of the inner member includes an elastic slide in contact with an inner wall of the outer member. 18. A robot according to claim 14, wherein the elastic comprises a plurality of spaced apart elastic bushings. 19. A robot according to claim 18, wherein the elastic member comprises four elastic bushings radially spaced apart at 90.degree. intervals, and wherein an axis passing through opposite bushings coincides with the direction in which the robot advances and the direction perpendicular thereto. 20. A robot according to claim 19, wherein the bushings all have the same hardness. 21. A robot according to claim 19, wherein the bushings have different hardness. 22. A robot according to claim 14, wherein the foot has a sole with a third elastic member. 23. A robot according to claim 22, wherein the third elastic member is placed at a corner of the sole of the foot. 24. In a legged mobile robot of the type having a plurality of legs with each leg having a foot, the improvement comprising: an elastic member attached to a sole of the foot for absorbing impact generated when the foot portion lands on the ground; and a plate spring between and separating the sole and the elastic member, and underlying substantially the entire sole for restricting the deformation of the elastic member with the plate spring rigidly attached to the sole. 25. A robot according to claim 24 further comprising a second elastic member attached to the bottom of the plate spring for contacting the ground, the second elastic member spaced away from the center of the foot for resisting spin force acting on a leg which supports the robot weight when other leg free from the robot weight is swung. 26. A robot according to claim 25, wherein the second elastic member is positioned at a corner of the sole. 27. In a legged mobile robot of the type having a plurality of legs with each leg having a foot, the improvement comprising: an elastic member attached to a sole of the foot for absorbing impact; and a spring dampener mechanism positioned between the sole and the elastic member for restricting deformation of the elastic member, the spring dampener mechanism comprising: a cylinder mounted on the foot portion and forming a chamber; a piston slidably movable in the cylinder; a fluid in the chamber; a spring disposed in the chamber to urge the piston out of the cylinder; and a piston rod having a distal end connected to the elastic member. 28. In a legged robot of the type having a plurality of legs, with each leg having a foot, the improvement comprising: a foot having a first section narrower than a second section of the foot; and means for widening the first section, including at least one flap section pivotally attached to the foot. 29. A robot according to claim 28, wherein the means for widening further comprises: a cylinder mounted on the foot and forming a chamber; a piston slidably movable in the cylinder and having a rod connected to the flap section; a fluid in the chamber; and means for pumping the fluid into the cylinder to displace the flap section. 30. A robot according to claim 28, wherein the means for widening comprises: a projection positioned at the end of the narrow region; and means for projecting the projection when the foot portion lands on the ground. 31. A robot according to claim 30, wherein the means is a motor. 32. A robot according to claim 30, wherein the means is a spring. 33. A robot according to claim 28, wherein the first section comprises the heel area of the foot. 34. A robot according to claim 30, further comprising an elastic member at the periphery of the sole for resisting spin force acting on a leg which supports the robot weight when other leg free from the robot weight is swung. 35. A robot according to claim 34, wherein the elastic member is positioned at a corner of the sole. 36. A robot according to claim 28, wherein the first section comprises the toe area of the foot. 37. A robot according to claim 36, further comprising an elastic member at the periphery of the sole for resisting spin force acting on a leg which supports the robot weight when other leg free from the robot weight is swung. 38. A robot according to claim 37, wherein the elastic member is placed at a corner of the sole. 39. A robot according to claim 36, further including: an elastic member attached to a sole of the foot portion for absorbing impact generated when the foot portion lands on the ground; and means for restricting the deformation of the elastic member in the direction vertical to the sole. 40. A robot according to claim 39, wherein said means is a plate spring sandwiched between the sole and the elastic member. 41. A system for controlling locomotion of a legged mobile robot having a plurality of articulated legs each having a foot portion at its distal end and at least one joint adjacent thereto; comprising: an impact absorption mechanism including an elastic member for connecting the distal end of each leg and the foot portion and allowing the leg and the foot portion to be displaceable with respect to each other; servo motor means provided at the joint; first means for providing a control value to the servo motor means for driving the joint to a target angle; second means for detecting moment or force acting on the legs; and control means for correcting the control value in response to the detected moment or force to impart compliance to the leg. 42. A system according to claim 41, wherein said control means corrects the control value in response to a low frequency component of the detected moment or force. 