The disclosure relates to a system for the detection of human presence in hazardous situations near moving machinery; appropriately shaped electrodes are placed in an area to be safeguarded and a radio-frequency signal of appropriate frequency and voltage is applied on the electrodes creating an alternating electric field around them. A bridge circuit is used to measure the capacitive impedance created by the electrodes and a dissipation factor is calculated from the real and imaginary parts of the impedance. If a foreign object is introduced into the electric field, the characteristics of the dielectric are modified creating a change of the value of the dissipation factor. The dissipation of energy in the high frequency region is much greater if this foreign object is a biological tissue as compared to other types of materials, such as conductors or insulators. Thus, the system detects human presence by noting the increase of the dissipation factor above a threshold value, and the movement of the appropriate machine part can then be stopped, thereby eliminating the danger of injury to the person.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A system for detecting the human presence in a given area, comprising: an arrangement of at least one electrode located in said area defining a condenser having a capacitance C.sub.x, an impedance Z.sub.x and a dissipation factor D, whose values depend on the nature of the objects located in said area; means in electrical connection with said arrangement of at least one electrode for applying a radio frequency signal to said arrangement of at least one electrode an alternating electric field around said at least one electrode whereby human presence in said field causes a change of the characteristics of the dielectric of said condenser; impedance bridge means, in electrical connection with said arrangement of at least one electrode, including a known reference impedance Z.sub.r, a fixed voltage source S.sub.f and a source of adjustable voltage S.sub.a ; said sources S.sub.f and S.sub.a producing a sinusoidal voltage at an operating frequency f.sub.op ; said known reference impedance Z.sub.r said fixed voltage source S.sub.f and said adjustable voltage source S.sub.a being in electrical connection with each other and with said arrangement of at least one electrode; vectorial detector means for measuring real and imaginary parts of the complex amplitude of a signal V.sub.L between each arms of said bridge: circuit balancing means or continuously adjusting the voltage produced by S.sub.a to reduce said real and imaginary parts of V.sub.L to zero; means measuring said dissipation factor D from outputs of said vectorial detector means, including means for determining a human presence in said area when a change of said dissipation factor exceeds a predetermined threshold value. 2. A system as defined in claim 1, wherein the adjustment of the voltage produced by S.sub.a consists of a feedback loop of said balancing circuit means to define the following relationship: ##EQU5## 3. A system as defined in claim 2, wherein said vectorial detector means comprise vectorial detectors VD.sub.2 and VD.sub.3 to measure V.sub.H and V.sub.r and wherein said dissipation factor D is calculated using the equation: ##EQU6## where Z'.sub.x and Z"x are respectively said real and said imaginary parts of Z.sub.x. 4. A system as defined in claim 3, wherein said bridge is controlled by a digital controller. 5. A system as defined in claim 1, wherein said at least one electrode is placed near a moving machine component to be guarded and are supplied with radio frequency signals by said impedance bridge through a module of reference impedance containing a reference impedance, said module being in a fixed position relative to said at least one electrode and being connected to said bridge by way of flexible coaxial cables with grounded shields. 6. A system as defined in claim 1, including a module of reference impedance mounted on a body of a machine, said body being grounded and wherein an electrode on said machine is supplied with a radio frequency signal by said impedance bridge through said module of reference impedance containing a reference impedance and two transformers, said module being in a fixed position relative to said electrode and being connected to said bridge by way of five flexible coaxial cables with grounded shields. 7. A system as defined in claim 1, wherein said known reference impedance is a capacitor whose value is equal to the capacitance C.sub.x of said at least one electrode. 