A Customer Access Port (CAP) for an automated storage library subsystem which comprises two sliding doors to control operator access to the library. A magazine adapted to hold several storage media cartridges is positioned inside the storage library accessible to both an operator and the robotic mechanism for exchanging storage media cartridges between the operator and the storage library. Both sliding doors are slid between two positions by manual movement of a single knob. In one position, a first door closes to prevent any operator access to the magazine as well as other components inside the library while the second door opens to permit robotic mechanisms inside the library to manipulate storage media cartridges in the magazine. In the second position, the first door opens to permit operator access to the magazine while the second door closes to restrict the operator from accessing other components such as the robotic mechanisms or inventoried storage media cartridges within the library.
Claims We claim: 1. In a storage library subsystem having an inside substantially enclosed by an outer cover and utilizing robotic means to manipulate a plurality of storage media cartridges within said storage library subsystem, a customer access port for permitting limited access by an operator to the inside of said storage library subsystem for purposes of inserting or removing said storage media cartridges in said storage library subsystem, said customer access port comprising: magazine means attached to the inside of said storage library subsystem for temporarily holding storage media cartridges to be exchanged between an operator and said storage library subsystem; and sliding door means mounted on said outer cover and movable between a first position for preventing an operator from accessing the inside of said storage library subsystem while permitting said robotic manipulation means to exchange said storage media cartridges in said magazine means, and a second position for preventing said robotic manipulation means from manipulating said storage media cartridges in said magazine means while simultaneously permitting an operator to access said storage media cartridges in said magazine means through said outer cover, said sliding door means comprising: a first door means movable between a first position for permitting said robotic manipulation means to manipulate said storage media cartridges in said magazine means and a second position for preventing said robotic manipulation means from manipulating said storage media cartridges in said magazine means; a second door means movable between a first position for preventing an operator from accessing the inside of said storage library subsystem, and a second position for permitting an operator to access said storage media cartridges in said magazine means; and coupling means for connecting said first door means to said second door means such that both said first door means and said second door means move in unison between said first position and said second position. 2. The customer access port of claim 1 further comprising: sensor means for indicating that said door means is positioned at said first position preventing an operator from accessing the inside of said storage library subsystem. 3. The customer access port of claim 1 further comprising: lock means for controllably retaining said door means in said first position preventing an operator from accessing the inside of said storage library subsystem. 4. The customer access port of claim 3 further comprising: lock means responsive to said sensor means indicating that said door means is positioned at said first position for controllably retaining said door means in said first position preventing an operator from accessing the inside of said storage library subsystem. 