A substantially transparent housing (202) for an electronic device (100) is capable of enclosing at least one component (502, 504). The enclosed at least one component (502, 504) can be visible from the outside of the housing (202). The housing (202) includes an outer surface (701) and an inner surface (702). A portion of the inner surface (703) is textured to provide a translucent surface. A portion of the outer surface (704) overlaps the textured portion of the inner surface (703). The overlapping portion of the outer surface (704) has opaque marks (602). The opaque marks (602) provide information visible from the outside of the housing (202). A method is also provided for applying the opaque marks (602) to the housing (202).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substantially transparent housing for an electronic device, the housing capable of enclosing at least one component therein and having the enclosed at least one component be visible from the outside of the housing, the housing comprising: a single plastic layer having an outer surface and an inner surface; a portion of the outer surface having opaque marks, the opaque marks providing information visible from the outside of the housing and; a portion of the inner surface being textured to provide a translucent surface to enhance the visibility of the opaque marks. 2. The substantially transparent housing of claim 1, wherein the textured portion of the inner surface provides at least a partially light reflective surface for at least partially reflecting ambient light toward the portion of the outer surface having the opaque marks for enhancing the visibility of the opaque marks from the outside of the housing. 3. The substantially transparent housing of claim 1, wherein the opaque marks are laser marks on the outer surface of the housing. 4. The substantially transparent housing of claim 1, wherein the portion of the outer surface comprises plastic construction. 5. The substantially transparent housing of claim 4, wherein the housing is constructed of plastic. 6. The substantially transparent housing of claim 5, wherein the housing is constructed from LEXAN 141R polycarbonate resin plastic. 7. A method for marking a translucent plastic housing having an inner and an outer surface, where the contents to be enclosed within the housing are intended to be at least partially visible through the housing, the method comprising the steps of: texturing at least a portion of the inner surface of a single plastic layer; substantially enclosing at least one component of the contents within the housing wherein the textured portion provides protection to the at least one component of the contents when the opaque mark is applied; and applying an opaque mark directly on a portion of the outer surface, the portion of the outer surface at least partially overlapping the portion of the inner surface having the texturing. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the applying step comprises the step of: applying heat about the portion of the outer surface to create the opaque mark directly on the portion of the outer surface. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the applying step comprises the step of: focusing a laser beam about the portion of the outer surface to create the opaque mark directly on the portion of the outer surface. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the focusing step comprises the step of: focusing the laser beam just above the outer surface of the housing create the opaque mark directly on the portion of the outer surface. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the focusing step comprises the step of: steering the focused laser beam about the portion of the outer surface in a predetermined pattern to create the opaque mark directly on the portion of the outer surface. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the steering step creates the opaque mark to represent visible information comprising at least one visible information from the set of: a) bar code information; b) graphical information; c) numeric information; and d) alphanumeric information. 13. A selective call receiver comprising: a housing for enclosing at least one component of the selective call receiver within the housing, the housing being at least partially transparent for allowing the enclosed at least one component to be at least partially visible from the outside of the housing, the at least one component including at least one of: receiving means for receiving a message comprising an address; decoding means coupled to the receiving means for decoding the received message, and for determining if the received address matches a predetermined address; presenting means coupled to the decoding means for presenting the decoded message to a user; and alert means coupled to the decoding means for generating an alert if the received address matches the predetermined address; and the housing comprising a single plastic layer having an outer surface and an inner surface, a portion of the outer surface having at least one opaque mark thereon for providing information visible from the outside of the housing, and a portion of the inner surface being textured to provide a translucent surface to enhance the visibility of the at least one opaque mark. 14. The selective call receiver of claim 13, wherein the textured portion of the inner surface provides at least a partially light reflective surface for at least partially reflecting ambient light toward the overlapping portion of the outer surface for enhancing the visibility of the at least one opaque mark from the outside of the housing. 15. The selective call receiver of claim 13, wherein the at least one opaque mark includes at least one laser mark on the outer surface of the housing. 16. The selective call receiver of claim 13, wherein the portion of the outer surface comprises plastic construction. 17. The selective call receiver of claim 13, wherein the housing is constructed of plastic. 18. The selective call receiver of claim 13, wherein the housing is constructed of LEXAN 141R polycarbonate resin plastic. 19. The selective call receiver of claim 13, wherein the at least one opaque mark represents visible information comprising at least one visible information from the set of: a) bar code information; b) graphical information; c) numeric information; and d) alphanumeric information. 