Seat cushions and backs comprising a foam bun and a trim cover are made by applying a molten hot melt bead to the trim cover or the foam bun in a predetermined pattern that matches or produces style conformations in the seating portion, pressing the trim cover and the foam cushion together in localized areas within a predetermined amount of time with a tool that has rails arranged in the same predetermined pattern to establish intimate contact of the cover and bun with the hot melt bead, and holding the trim cover and the foam cushion in intimate contact with the hot melt bead for a predetermined amount of time while the hot melt bead cools and bonds the trim cover to the foam cushion beneath the style conformations. The tool or at least the rails preferably provide a heat sink to facilitate cooling the hot melt adhesive bead. The bonding method can be used with a wide variety of seating materials including heat-sensitive seating fabrics and laminates and foam-backed seating materials.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method of manufacturing a seat assembly that has a foam bun and a trim cover for the foam bun that has a seating surface attached to a seating surface of the foam bun, comprising: applying a molten hot melt adhesive bead to an inner surface of the seating portion of the trim cover or to the seating surface of the foam bun in a predetermined pattern, pressing the trim cover and the foam cushion together in the area of the predetermined pattern while the adhesive is still molten with a tool having rails arranged in the predetermined pattern so that the trim cover and the foam bun have intimate contact with the hot melt adhesive bead, and holding the trim cover and the foam cushion in intimate contact with the hot melt adhesive bead for a predetermined amount of time while the hot melt adhesive cools and thereby bonding the trim cover to the foam cushion and enhancing style conformations for the seating potion of the seat assembly. 2. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the bonding of the trim cover to the foam bun by cooling of the hot melt adhesive constitutes the sole means for attaching the seating portion of trim cover to the facing surface of the foam bun. 3. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the tool pressing the trim cover and the foam bun together is a heat sink that facilitates cooling the hot melt bead. 4. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein additional hot melt adhesive is sprayed on a convex surface of the foam bun when the hot melt adhesive bead is applied. 5. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the hot melt adhesive is applied at a temperature in the range of 340.degree. F. to 390.degree. F. 6. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the hot melt adhesive is applied at a temperature in the range of 350.degree. F. to 360.degree. F. 7. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the trim cover and the foam bun are pressed together while the hot melt adhesive is at least about 250.degree. F. 8. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the trim cover and the foam bun are pressed together while the hot melt adhesive is at least about 275.degree. F. 9. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the trim cover and the foam bun are pressed together within a range of about 10 seconds to about 30 seconds from the time that the hot melt adhesive is applied. 10. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the trim cover and the foam bun are pressed and held together by a pressure in the range of about 4.5 psi to about 7.0 psi. 11. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the trim cover and the foam bun are held together until the hot melt material cools to about 180.degree. F. 12. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the trim cover and the foam bun are held together in the range of about 60 seconds to about 97 seconds. 13. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the trim cover has a seating portion comprising a plurality of panels whose adjacent side edges are abutted and sewed together to define salvage end projections that are arranged in the predetermined pattern and bonded to the foam bun by the hot melt adhesive bead when it cools. 14. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the foam bun has conformations arranged in the predetermined pattern so that the trim cover is bonded to the foam bun in such conformations to avoid discomfort to the seat occupant after the hot melt adhesive bead cools and hardens. 15. A method of manufacturing a sculptured seat assembly having a foam bun that includes raised side bolsters and a trim cover for the foam bun having a seating portion covering a seating surface of the foam bun including part of the side bolsters comprising: applying a molten hot melt adhesive bead an inner surface of the seating portion of the trim cover or the seating surface of the foam bun in a predetermined pattern that includes side beads at the inner ends of the bolsters at a temperature in the range of 340.degree. F. to 390.degree. F., pressing the trim cover and the foam cushion together in the area of the predetermined pattern before the hot melt adhesive cools below about 250.degree. F. with a tool that has rails arranged in the predetermined pattern so that the trim cover and the foam cushion have intimate contact with the hot melt adhesive bead, and holding the trim cover and foam cushion in intimate contact with the hot melt adhesive while the hot melt adhesive cools to about 180.degree. F. to bond the trim cover to the foam cushion. 16. The method of as defined in claim 15 wherein the hot melt adhesive is applied at a temperature in the range of 350.degree. F. to 360.degree. F. 17. The method as defined in claim 15 wherein the trim cover and the foam cushion are pressed together before the hot melt adhesive cools to about 275.degree. F. 18. The method as defined in claim 15 wherein the trim cover and the foam cushion are pressed and held together by a pressure in the range of about 4.5 psi to about 7.0 psi. 19. A method of manufacturing a seat assembly that has a foam bun and a trim cover for the foam bun that has a seating portion covering a seating surface of the foam bun comprising: shaping the foam bun so that the seating surface includes styling conformations in a predetermined pattern, applying a molten hot melt adhesive bead to an inner surface of the seating portion of the trim cover in the predetermined pattern or to the conformations in the seating surface of the foam bun at a temperature in the range of 340.degree. F. to 390.degree. F., pressing the trim cover and the foam cushion together with a range of about 10 seconds to about 30 seconds from the time that the hot melt adhesive is applied with a tool that has rails arranged in the predetermined pattern so that the trim cover and the foam bun have intimate contact with the hot melt adhesive bead, and then holding the trim cover and foam bun in intimate contact with the hot melt adhesive in the range of about 60 seconds to about 97 seconds while the hot melt adhesive cools to bond the trim cover to the foam cushion. 20. The method as defined in claim 19 wherein the hot melt adhesive is applied at a temperature in the range of 350.degree. F. to 360.degree. F. 21. The method as defined in claim 19 wherein the trim cover and the foam cushion are pressed and held together by a pressure in the range of about 4.5 psi to about 7.0 psi. 