A system and method for seam tracking in real time without path preprogramming uses at least two degrees of freedom and at least one degree of freedom created by a redundant axis. A robot can be used to weld or apply adhesive or sealant to a workpiece that is mounted on a positioner that it is movable relative to a base of the robot as a movable end of the robot tracks a seam on the workpiece. A sensor expresses a seam trajectory in workpiece coordinates and queues the coordinates in a computer processor so that the coordinates can be extracted from the processor to cause the movable end of the robot to track the seam. The workpiece can remain stationary and the robot base can be moved or the base can remain stationary and the workpiece can be moved or both the workpiece and the robot base can be moved. Any reasonable number of redundant axes can be utilized so long as there is one control parameter independently defined for each degree of freedom greater than six. Previous seam tracking systems do not have more than one degree of freedom with one of the degrees of freedom being created by redundant axes and previous systems do not automatically move the robot base relative to the workpiece.
Claims What we claim as our invention is: 1. A system for tracking a feature on an object in real time without path preprogramming, said system comprising: (a) a manipulator having a movable end and a base, said movable end being movable relative to said base; (b) a sensor mounted adjacent to said movable end, said sensor being oriented to monitor said feature near said end; (c) said system having at least two degrees of freedom with at least one degree of freedom being created by a redundant axis; and (d) said system having control means for receiving information from said sensor, for processing said information to control said redundant axis and for sending processed information to said manipulator, thereby causing said end to track said feature in real time without path preprogramming. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein there are means for moving said base relative to said object. 3. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein said adjustment means is a movable frame supporting said object. 4. A system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said frame can rotate said object relative to said base. 5. A system as claimed in claim 4 wherein said frame can rotate said object in more than one plane. 6. A system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the system has at least six degrees of freedom. 7. A system as claimed in claim 6 wherein the sensor is a camera. 8. A system as claimed in claim 7 wherein the manipulator is a robot. 9. A system as claimed in claim 8 wherein there are seven degrees of freedom and said end has a tip, three degrees of freedom for said tip of said movable end, two degrees of freedom for the orientation of the movable end, one degree of freedom for positioning the sensor around said movable end and one degree of freedom for said adjustment means moving said base relative to said object. 10. A system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the control means is at least one computer processor that controls a position of the object relative to said base as well as said manipulator and said movable end. 11. A system as claimed in claim 10 wherein there is a control parameter independently defined for each degree of freedom greater than six. 12. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the movable end supports at least one head selected from the group of a welding torch, cutting torch, a sealant dispenser, spray gun, adhesive dispenser and a laser delivery head, said frame positioning said object so that a surface thereof is always substantially horizontal in an area of said head. 13. A system as claimed in any one of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the number of degrees of freedom created by redundant axes ranges from two to six and there is one control parameter independently defined for each degree of freedom greater than six. 14. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the object is stationary and said base of said robot moves relative to said object. 15. A method for tracking a feature on an object in real time without path preprogramming using a system having a manipulator with a movable end and a base, means for moving said manipulator base relative to said object, a sensor mounted adjacent to said end, said sensor being oriented to monitor said feature near said end, said system having at least two degrees of freedom with at least one degree of freedom being created by a redundant axis, with control means for said system, said method comprising activating said control means to receive information from said sensor, processing said information to control said redundant axis, sending processed information to said manipulator and causing said end to track said feature in real time without path preprogramming. 16. A method as claimed in claim 15 including the step of moving said object to maintain said object in a substantially horizontal position in an area of said end as said end follows said feature on said object. 17. A method as claimed in claim 15 including the steps of expressing a sensed feature trajectory in object coordinates, suitably queuing these coordinates in said control means, extracting said coordinates from said control means and causing said end to follow said feature. 