The present invention is a method for welding difficult-to-weld metal components as illustrated in the welding of a receiver for a weapon. The method reduces net distortion by a number of techniques, including: (1) cooling the weld with Carbon Dioxide (CO.sub.2) preheated with the welding torch tip; (2) use of not more than approximately 4% oxygen in the shield gas to enable hotter, faster welding; (3) the use of a reduced voltage and wire feed rate at the end of a weld to avoid cracking; (4) the intentional use of distortion to reduce net distortion; and (5) sequencing of welds to reduce distortion. Distortion can be introduced in the stamped parts as they are made or when placed in a fixture for welding that, when welded, have less distortion than before. Distortion can also be countered by welding parts in a sequence where a subsequent weld reduces the distortion of a previous weld. The process is illustrated as applied to a receiver for a weapon made by welding non-compatible and low carbon steels in a low tolerance configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for welding a first part to a second part, said process comprising the steps of: placing said first part proximate to said second part so as to define a joint therebetween, said joint having a periphery and a center; applying a first electrical potential difference between a wire and said first part near said joint; blowing a first gas mixture onto said joint to displace substantially all air from the vicinity of said joint; moving said wire proximate to said joint until said first part, said second part and said wire become molten, said molten wire fills said joint, diffusing into said first part and said second part; reducing said first electrical potential difference to a second electrical potential difference lower than said first potential difference after said first and said second parts become molten; applying said second electrical potential difference to said center of said joint so that cooling is slowed in said center with respect to said periphery; and blowing a second gas mixture onto said joint to cool said joint. 2. The process as recited in claim 1, wherein said second gas includes Carbon Dioxide (CO.sub.2). 3. The process as recited in claim 1, wherein said blowing step further comprises the step of preheating said second gas for an interval of time before said gas is blown onto said joint so that said second gas is warmed when it first reaches said joint, but cools by the end of said interval of time. 4. The process as recited in claim 1, where said first gas mixture contains up to 4% oxygen. 5. The process as recited in claim 1, wherein said first part is distorted before said wire is moved toward said first part, and said moving step further comprises the step of continuing to heat said first part until said first part is not distorted. 6. A process for arc welding a plurality of parts to a body, said body having a first side and an opposing, second side, said process comprising the steps of: placing said body in a fixture so that said body is distorted; placing each part of said plurality of parts in engagement with said body, said each part and said body defining a joint therebetween; arc welding said each part of said plurality of parts to said body in the presence of a first gas mixture; continuing to heat said body until said joint is no longer distorted; and cooling said plurality of parts and said body with a second gas mixture alter each part of said plurality of parts has been arc welded for a period of time after said joints are welded. 7. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein at least one part of said plurality of parts defines at least two symmetric joints with said body, said process further comprises the steps of arc welding said symmetric joints substantially simultaneously. 8. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein first gas mixture of said arc welding step includes up to approximately 4% oxygen. 9. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein said second gas mixture includes Carbon Dioxide (CO.sub.2). 10. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein said cooling step further comprises the step of lowering the temperature of said second gas mixture from a first temperature to a lower, second temperature during said interval. 11. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein said interval is less than approximately one second and more than approximately one-quarter second. 12. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein said each joint has a center and a periphery, and said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said each part and said body are molten at said joint; and then heating said center. 13. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein each joint is adjacent to at least one adjacent joint and is not adjacent to at least one nonadjacent joint, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises arc welding nonadjacent joint after welding said each joint. 14. The process as recited in claim 6, wherein said body has a first side and an opposing second side and said at least one part includes a first part on said first side and a second part on said second side, and said arc welding step further comprises the step of: arc welding said first part to said first side, said arc welding step resulting in a distortion of said body; and arc welding said second part to said second side so that said second part is welded to said body and said distortion is off set. 15. A process for making a receiver for a weapon, said process comprising the steps of: forming a receiver body from sheet steel; placing said receiver body in a fixture; distorting said receiver body: clamping metal parts of said receiver to said receiver body, said parts and said body defining joint therebetween; arc welding said parts to said receiver body in the presence of a first gas mixture; continuing to heat said receiver body until said distortion is eliminated; and removing said receiver from said fixture. 16. The process as recited in claim 15, further comprising the steps of cooling said joints following said arc welding step. 17. The process as recited in claim 15, further comprising the steps of: warming a second gas mixture to a first temperature; and blowing said warmed second gas mixture onto said joints after each joint is arc welded; allowing said warmed second gas mixture to cool from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature to cool said joint gradually in a first interval. 18. The process as recited in claim 15, wherein said arc welding step is performed by a welding torch having a tip that becomes hot in arc welding and said process further comprises the step of blowing a second gas mixture by said tip and onto said joints after said joints are arc welded so that said gas mixture can absorb heat from said torch, whereby said gas mixture is preheated to a first temperature before striking said arc welded joint, said gas mixture cooling from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature. 19. The process as recited in claim 15, further comprising the step of cooling said arc welded joints until said joints are no longer red hot. 20. The process as recited in claim 15, wherein said joints have a center and a periphery, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said receiver body and said part are molten near said joint; heating said center. 21. The process as recited in claim 15, wherein said receiver body has a first side and an opposing, second side, and said joints include a first joint on said first side and a second joint on said second side of said receiver body, said arc welding step further comprising the steps of: arc welding said first joint on said first side, said arc welding producing a first distortion of said receiver body; and arc welding said second joint on said second side so that said second joint is welded, said arc welding of said second joint producing a second distortion, said first and said second distortion off-setting each other. 22. The process as recited in claim 15, where in said arc welding of said joints is done in a sequence so that distortion produced by arc welding one joint is offset by welding at least one other joint. 23. Apparatus for arc welding parts to a receiver body to make a receiver for a weapon, said apparatus comprising: a fixture for holding said parts to said receiver body, said parts and said body defining joints to be arc welded, each joint of said joints having a periphery and a center, said fixture holding said parts so that said joints are accessible; at least one arc welding torch in spaced relation to said fixture so that said torch can arc weld said parts to said receiver body at said joints; means for controlling said at least one arc welding torch so that said torch arc welds said parts to said receiver body at said joints in a predetermined sequence; a first gas mixture; means in spaced relation to said fixture for directing said first gas mixture at each joint so as to establish an environment at said joint for arc welding; means in spaced relation to said fixture for cooling said joints after said part and said receiver body are welded, said controlling means heating said joint at a first temperature until molten and heating said center of said joint at a second lower temperature so that said center cools slower than said periphery of said joint. 24. The apparatus as recited in claim 23, further comprising means for rotating said fixture with respect to said at least one torches so that said joints are presented for welding. 25. The apparatus as recited in claim 23, wherein said cooling means further comprises: a second gas mixture; and means for directing said second gas mixture at said joints. 26. The apparatus as recited in claim 23, wherein said cooling means further comprises: a second gas mixture; means for directing said second gas mixture at said joints; and means for preheating said second gas mixture to a first temperature so that said second gas mixture cools from said first temperature to a second temperature when directed to said joints. 27. The apparatus as recited in claim 23, wherein said first gas mixture includes up to 4% oxygen. 28. A process for welding a first part to a second part, said process comprising the steps of: placing said first part proximate to said second part so as to define a joint therebetween; distorting said first part; applying a first electrical potential difference between a wire and said first part near said joint; blowing a first gas mixture onto said joint to displace substantially all air from the vicinity of said joint; moving said wire proximate to said joint until said first part, said second part and said wire becoming molten, said molten wire fills said joint, diffusing into said first part and said second part; continuing to heat said first part until said first part is not distorted; and blowing a second gas mixture onto said joint to cool said joint. 29. The process as recited in claim 28, wherein said second gas includes Carbon Dioxide (CO.sub.2). 30. The process as recited in claim 28, wherein said blowing step further comprises the step of preheating said second gas for an interval of time before said gas is blown onto said joint so that said second gas is warmed when it first reaches said joint, but cools by the end of said interval of time. 31. The process as recited in claim 28, wherein said joint has a center and a periphery, and said process further comprises the steps of reducing said first electrical potential difference to a second electrical potential difference lower than said first potential difference after said first and said second parts become molten; and applying said second electrical potential difference to said center so that cooling is slowed in said center with respect to said periphery for a period of time less than approximately one second and more than approximately one-quarter second. 32. The process as recited in claim 28, where said first gas mixture contains up to 4% oxygen. 33. A process for arc welding a plurality of parts to a body, said body having a first side and an opposing, second side, said plurality of parts including a first part on said first side and a second part on said second side, said process comprising the steps of: placing said body in a fixture; placing each part of said plurality of parts in engagement with said body, said each part and said body defining a joint therebetween; arc welding said first part to said first side in the presence of a first gas mixture, said arc welding step resulting in a distortion of said body; arc welding said second part to said second side in the presence of said first gas mixture so that said second part is welded to said body and said distortion is offset; and cooling said plurality of parts and said body with a second gas mixture alter each part of said plurality of parts has been arc welded for a period of time after said joints are welded. 34. The process as recited in claim 33, wherein at least one part of said plurality of parts defines at least two symmetric joints with said body, said process further comprises the steps of arc welding said symmetric joints substantially simultaneously. 35. The process as recited in claim 33, wherein said body placing step further comprises the step of distorting said body. 36. The process as recited in claim 33, wherein first gas mixture of said arc welding step includes up to approximately 4% oxygen. 37. The process as recited in claim 33, wherein said second gas mixture includes Carbon Dioxide (CO.sub.2). 38. The process as recited in claim 33, wherein said cooling step further comprises the step of lowering the temperature of said second gas mixture from a first temperature to a lower, second temperature during said interval. 39. The process as recited in claim 33, wherein said each joint has a center and a periphery, and said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said each part and said body are molten at said joint; and then heating said center. 40. The process as recited in claim 33, wherein each joint is adjacent to at least one adjacent joint and is not adjacent to at least one nonadjacent joint, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises arc welding nonadjacent joint after welding said each joint. 41. A process for making a receiver for a weapon, wherein said receiver body has a first side and an opposing second side, and said joints include a first joint on said first side and a second joint on said second side of said receiver body, said process comprising the steps of: forming a receiver body from sheet steel; placing said receiver body in a fixture; clamping metal parts of said receiver to said receiver body, said parts and said body defining joint therebetween; arc welding said parts to said receiver body in the presence of a first gas mixture by arc welding said first joint on said first side, said arc welding producing a first distortion of said receiver body, and arc welding said second joint on said second side so that said second joint is welded, said arc welding of said second joint producing a second distortion, said first and said second distortion off-setting each other; and removing said receiver from said fixture. 42. The process as recited in claim 41, wherein said receiver body is formed with a distortion so that said distortion is eliminated by the step of arc welding said parts. 43. The process as recited in claim 41, further comprising the steps of cooling said joints following said arc welding step. 44. The process as recited in claim 41, further comprising the steps of: warming a second gas mixture to a first temperature; and blowing said warmed second gas mixture onto said joints after each joint is arc welded; allowing said warmed second gas mixture to cool from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature to cool said joint gradually in a first interval. 45. The process as recited in claim 41, wherein said arc welding step is performed by a welding torch having a tip that becomes hot in arc welding and said process further comprises the step of blowing a second gas mixture by said tip and onto said joints after said joints are arc welded so that said gas mixture can absorb heat from said torch, whereby said gas mixture is preheated to a first temperature before striking said arc welded joint, said gas mixture cooling from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature. 46. The process as recited in claim 41, further comprising the step of cooling said arc welded joints until said joints are no longer red hot. 47. The process as recited in claim 41, wherein said joints have a center and a periphery, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said receiver body and said part are molten near said joint; heating said center. 48. The process as recited in claim 41, wherein said arc welding of said joints is done in a sequence so that distortion produced by arc welding one joint is offset by welding at least one other joint. 49. A process for making a receiver for a weapon, said process comprising the steps of: forming a receiver body from sheet steel; placing said receiver body in a fixture; clamping metal parts of said receiver to said receiver body, said parts and said body defining joints therebetween; arc welding said parts to said receiver body in the presence of a first gas mixture and in a sequence so that distortion produced by arc welding one joint is offset by welding at least one other joint; and removing said receiver from said fixture. 50. The process as recited in claim 49, wherein said receiver body is formed with a distortion so that said distortion is eliminated by the step of arc welding said parts. 51. The process as recited in claim 49, further comprising the steps of cooling said joints following said arc welding step. 52. The process as recited in claim 49, further comprising the steps of: warming a second gas mixture to a first temperature; and blowing said warmed second gas mixture onto said joints after each joint is arc welded; allowing said warmed second gas mixture to cool from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature to cool said joint gradually in a first interval. 53. The process as recited in claim 49, wherein said arc welding step is performed by a welding torch having a tip that becomes hot in arc welding and said process further comprises the step of blowing a second gas mixture by said tip and onto said joints after said joints are arc welded so that said gas mixture can absorb heat from said torch, whereby said gas mixture is preheated to a first temperature before striking said arc welded joint, said gas mixture cooling from said first temperature to a second, lower temperature. 54. The process as recited in claim 49, further comprising the step of cooling said arc welded joints until said joints are no longer red hot. 55. The process as recited in claim 49, wherein said joints have a center and a periphery, and wherein said arc welding step further comprises the steps of: heating said periphery until said receiver body and said part are molten near said joint; heating said center. 56. The process as recited in claim 49, wherein said receiver body has a first side and an opposing, second side, and said joints include a first joint on said first side and a second joint on said second side of said receiver body, said arc welding step further comprising the steps of: arc welding said first joint on said first side, said arc welding producing a first distortion of said receiver body; and arc welding said second joint on said second side so that said second joint is welded, said arc welding of said second joint producing a second distortion, said first and said second distortion off-setting each other. 