A device for positioning a first object relative to a second object, primarily for positioning an automatic fuelling device relative to vehicles. A transponder using a microstrip antenna design is small in dimension and gives accurate position indication by attachment to a back surface of a body which acts as a close reflection plane. The preferred embodiment of the device is a microstrip patch antenna where the ground plane is of similar size as the antenna element, and where the transponder is mounted on a car body rearward of the fuel filling point, to result in a radiation diagram that is created from the added direct signal from the antenna element and the reflected signal from the car body. A rounded profile of the transponder is a result of placement of its battery adjacent to the radiating element.
Claims I claim: 1. A device for positioning a first object relative to a second object which includes a metal surface, where the first object has a robotic head and the second object is located by a position sensing system comprising: a sensor and a transponder; said sensor comprising a transmitter and receiver unit in the robotic head and said transponder (50) is located on the metal surface of said second object; said transponder operates at a frequency in the microwave range and is enabled to reradiate a signal received from said sensor, said transponder thereby operating to enable positioning of said robotic head relative to said second object, said transponder comprising a microstrip antenna element (20) , (60) , (70) , a dielectric material plate (28) and a ground plane (21), said dielectric material plate having two sides and mounting said microstrip antenna on one of said sides and mounting said ground plane on the other of said sides; said ground plane (21) being of similar size as the microstrip antenna element and wherein the transponder is arranged to cooperate with said metal surface of said second object which thereby provides a reflector plane (22), located behind the transponder, to obtain an antenna radiating diagram that is directed perpendicular out from the transponder on the opposite side from said reflection plane; said transponder having a power source (40) and associated electronic elements, placed inside the perimeter of said microstrip antenna element (20), (60), (70) and on one side of the dielectric plate. 2. Device according to claim 1, wherein the metal reflecting surface (22) forms a part on the side of a vehicle and wherein said dielectric material plate has a diametric extension of at least 1.7 times the effective diameter of the microstrip antenna element (20), (60), (70). 3. A device according to claim 2 wherein said part on the side of a vehicle comprises: a fuel tank door. 4. A device according to claim 3, wherein said part on the side of a vehicle is a microwave transparent fuel tank door including a metal reflective device on the inner side of the door. 5. A device according to claim 2 wherein said part on the side of a vehicle comprises: a metal plate part with a hole therein; and a mounting cup with at least a metal base portion is used as a mounting for said transponder. 6. Device according to claim 1, wherein microwave microstrip conductors (29), (31) are mounted inside an opening (35) of the microstrip antenna element (20), where the microstrip conductors (29), (31) are placed on the same side of said dielectric plate (28) as the microstrip antenna element (20) and acting against the same ground plane (21) as the microstrip antenna element. 7. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein said first object is an automatic fueling device and said second object is a vehicle with a fueling point, said transponder being mounted on the vehicle adjacent said fueling point. 8. Device according to claim 7, wherein the vehicle has a tank door and the transponder (50) is mounted on the vehicle side (51) adjacent the tank door (52). 9. Device according to claim 8, wherein the transponder is mounted on the outside of the tank door, and wherein the tank door includes a metal reflecting surface with a diametric extension at least 1.6 times that of the antenna element. 10. Device according to claim 8, wherein the transponder is mounted behind the tank door, the tank door being made from a microwave transparent material, and a metal reflecting device (90) is arranged behind the tank door and behind the transponder. 11. Device according to claim 1, wherein the transponder powering is made by microwave energy, where a received microwave powering signal is rectified by at least one diode (26) to supply the electronic components with energy. 12. A device for positioning a first object relative to a second object which includes a metal surface, where the first object has a robotic head and the second object is located by a position sensing system comprising: a sensor and a transponder; said sensor comprising a transmitter and receiver unit in the robotic head and said transponder (50) is located on the metal surface of said second object; said transponder operates at a frequency in the microwave range and is enabled to reradiate a signal received from said sensor, said transponder thereby operating to enable positioning of said robotic head relative to said second object, said transponder comprising a microstrip antenna element (20), (60), (70), a dielectric material plate (28) and a ground plane (21), said dielectric material plate having two sides; said ground plane (21) being of similar size as the microstrip antenna element and wherein the transponder is arranged to cooperate with said metal surface of said second object which thereby provides a reflector plane (22), located behind the transponder, to obtain an antenna radiating diagram that is directed perpendicular out from the transponder on the opposite side from said reflection plane; said transponder having a power source (40) and associated electronic elements, placed inside the perimeter of said microstrip antenna element (20), (60), (70) and on one side of the dielectric plate; said microstrip antenna element being a patch antenna element, and the size of said ground plane (21) provides a diametric extension of less than 1.7 times, and more than 0.6 times that of the size of the antenna element, whereby the reflection of the back lobe thereby created is reflected by said metal surface of the second object located behind the transponder and is added to the direct signal from the microstrip antenna to form a radiating diagram directed perpendicular to the dielectric material plate and the microstrip antenna element. 13. A device for positioning a first object relative to a second object which includes a metal surface, where the first object has a robotic head and the second object is located by a position sensing system comprising: a sensor and a transponder; said sensor comprising a transmitter and receiver unit in the robotic head and said transponder (50) is located on the metal surface of said second object; said transponder operates at a frequency in the microwave range and is enabled to reradiate a signal received from said sensor, said transponder thereby operating to enable positioning of said robotic head relative to said second object, said transponder comprising a microstrip antenna element (20), (60), (70), a dielectric material plate (28) and a ground plane (21), said dielectric material plate having two sides; said ground plane (21) being of similar size as the microstrip antenna element and wherein the transponder is arranged to cooperate with said metal surface of said second object which thereby provides a reflector plane (22), located behind the transponder, to obtain an antenna radiating diagram that is directed perpendicular out from the transponder on the opposite side from said reflection plane; said transponder having a power source (40) and associated electronic elements, placed inside the perimeter of said microstrip antenna element (20), (60), (70) and on one side of the dielectric plate; said microstrip antenna element comprising at least one dipole antenna element of a folded type being arranged with a said ground plane that has a size providing a diametric extension of less than 1.7 times, and more than 0.6 times that of the effective size of the microstrip antenna element, whereby the reflection of the back lobe thereby created is reflected by said metal surface of the second object behind the transponder, said reflection of the back lobe from the metal surface being added to the direct signal from the microstrip antenna element to form a radiating diagram directed perpendicular to the dielectric material plate and the microstrip antenna element. 