A device and method for high speed production rates in the hydration of soft contact lenses. Such device and method includes the use robotic transfer equipment to transfer contact lens molds containing contact lenses to and from a hydration station and a flushing station.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated apparatus for hydrating a molded hydrophilic contact lens, said automated apparatus comprising: (a) a first robotic assembly for removing a plurality of contact lens molds from a carrier, each mold having a contact lens therein, and assembling said molds with a lens transfer plate to form a first hydration carrier; (b) a second robotic assembly for immersing said first hydration carrier in a hydration bath to hydrate the lenses and release said lenses from said mold, and allow said lenses to transfer from said mold to said lens transfer plate; (c) a pick unit for removing said first hydration carrier from said bath after a predetermined time; (d) a third robotic assembly for removing said molds from said lens transfer plate and transporting said lens transfer plate and said lenses to a subsequent processing station. 2. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first robotic assembly is a pick and place robot that picks said lens transfer plate from a first location and places it on said contact lens molds which are carried by one or more pallet carriers. 3. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said lens transfer plate includes a plurality of clips for engaging said contact lens molds, and securing said molds to said transfer plate. 4. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein each of said contact lens molds defines a tab member which extends outwardly from said mold and said lens transfer plate further defines a plurality of openings adjacent said clips and aligned with said tabs to receive a plurality of ejectors mounted on said third robotic assembly, said ejectors dislodging said molds from said clips after said lens transfer plate has been engaged by said third robotic assembly. 5. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 4, wherein said third robotic assembly further comprises a reciprocal gripping plate for engaging said lens transfer means, wherein said plate will reciprocate said lens transfer plate and said mold tabs into engagement with said ejectors to dislodge said molds. 6. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein said clips are formed of a liquid crystalline polymer. 7. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said lens transfer plate further comprises: a transport frame, said transport frame facilitating transfer of a contact lens between two processing stations; a carrier element, said element including a body portion having a convex lens attachment surface on one end and a means for attaching said body portion to said transport frame on an opposite end; and a fluid line extending through said body portion for introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment surface and a contact lens carried thereon to release said lens. 8. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said lens transfer plate further includes a pair of clips for engaging one of each of said contact lens molds, and securing one of each of said molds to said carrier elements. 9. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said convex lens attachment surface generally conforms to a concave surface of a contact lens to enable said convex lens attachment surface to hold a contact lens with surface tension. 10. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said body portion includes a circumferential wall having a plurality of openings formed therein, said wall formed proximal to a circumference of the contact lens attachment surface. 11. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said body portion includes an annular shoulder formed proximal to a circumference of the contact lens attachment surface. 12. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein said plate further comprises a hydration carrier having a plurality of concave lens holding surfaces, each of said concave surfaces associated with a respective carrier element to receive a lens attached thereto, and a fluid line extending through said body portion of said carrier element for introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment surface and said lens to release the lens from said convex lens attachment surface and transfer said lens to said concave holding surface. 13. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said concave lens holding surface defines a hydration chamber between said concave holding surface and the convex lens attachment surface. 14. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second robotic assembly slides said first hydration carrier into said hydration bath at a predetermined angle. 15. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein said second robotic assembly slides said hydration assembly into said hydration bath with the contact lens molds positioned above said lens transfer means. 16. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein said predetermined angle is 45.degree. from the surface of the hydration bath, .+-.20.degree.. 17. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein said first robotic assembly inverts said molds and said lens transfer plate after assembly. 18. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said second robotic assembly slides said first hydration carrier into said hydration bath at a predetermined speed. 19. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein said predetermined speed does not exceed 40 cm/sec. 20. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises a heater for heating the temperature of the hydration bath to a predetermined temperature ranging from 55.degree. C. to 90.degree. C. 21. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein said predetermined temperature is 70.degree. C. 22. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said hydration bath is a bath of deionized water with a surfactant therein. 23. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 22, wherein said surfactant ranges from 0.005% to 5% of said hydration bath. 24. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said pick unit further includes a fourth robotic assembly for removing said hydration carrier from said bath at a speed that does not exceed 24 cm/sec. 25. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a pair of walking beams for transporting said carrier through said hydration bath. 26. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said lens transfer plate includes a plurality of convex lens carrier elements, with a convex carrier element associated with each lens to be hydrated, said automated means further comprising a plurality of second hydration carriers, each of said second hydration carriers having a plurality of concave lens holding surfaces that are arranged to cooperate with said convex lens carrier elements to define a plurality of hydration chambers therebetween, wherein said third robotic assembly assembles said lens transfer plate and said lenses with said second hydration carrier for transport to said subsequent processing station. 27. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein said apparatus further includes a plurality of extraction stations for receiving said second hydration carriers and said hydration chambers defined therein. 28. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 27, wherein said automated apparatus further comprises a transport for advancing each of said second hydration carriers through each of said extraction stations. 29. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 28, wherein said automated apparatus further comprises a control means for sequencing the transport and extraction of each hydration carrier. 30. An automated apparatus for hydrating a hydrophilic lens, said apparatus comprising: (a) a plurality of carriers, each carrier having (i) a lens transfer plate, said lens transfer plate having a plurality of lens carrier elements, each carrier element having a convex lens attachment surface, and each lens attachment surface defining a fluid port therein for introducing a fluid between said convex lens attachment surface and a contact lens carried thereon; (ii) a hydration carrier, said hydration carrier defining a plurality of concave lens holding surfaces with a concave lens holding surface associated with a lens carrier element to define a hydration chamber therebetween, each concave lens holding surface also defining a fluid port therein for introducing a fluid between said concave holding surface and a contact lens carried within each respective hydration chamber; (b) a plurality of automated extraction stations, each station having a discharge manifold, said discharge manifold cooperating with said carriers to provide a flow of fluid within each hydration chamber; (c) a transport for conveying said hydration carrier through each of said plurality of extraction stations; and (d) a controller for sequencing the flow of fluid at each station with the conveyance of each carrier means thereto. 31. An automated apparatus for hydrating a hydrophilic lens as claimed in claim 30 wherein fresh deionized water is introduced into said hydration chambers at each extraction station to flush leachable substances from the hydrating chambers. 32. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein said apparatus further includes a transport path between each of said automated extraction stations wherein a fluid in said hydration chambers and an incremental residence time on said transport path between each of said extraction stations is used to extract impurities from said contact lens through mass transfer exchange. 33. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said controller controls said incremental residence time and the duration of the flow of deionized water through each hydration chamber. 34. An automated means as claimed in claim 30 wherein each of said lens carrier elements further includes a body portion having a circumferential wall with a plurality of radial openings formed therein, said wall formed proximal to a circumference of the contact lens attachment surface. 35. An automated apparatus as claimed in claim 30 wherein said apparatus further comprises a final station for separating said lens transfer plate and said hydration carrier, said final station having a fluid discharge manifold to supply a fluid to the port defined in said convex lens attachment surface to ensure transfer of said lens to said concave lens holding surface prior to separation of said carrier means. 