Method and system for trajectory or path planning to move a device such as a robot along a Cartesian path to achieve high path accuracy and ease of programming. Cascaded linear filters are utilized to perform acceleration/deceleration control in Cartesian space having six Cartesian components. Generally, six sets of such linear filters are used, three for location components and three for orientation components. Cartesian path blending is also provided. First and second path segments are planned and blended together and a corner distance is formed at a transition between the first and second path segments. A method is also provided for adjusting the corner distance. The corner distance is adjusted by corner distance variables which are independent of program speed so that the resultant Cartesian path can be maintained regardless of program speed changes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for planning a path for a device in Cartesian space having a plurality of Cartesian components, the device being movable along axes defining an axis space, the method comprising the steps of: (a) receiving a first motion command from a user program, the motion command having desired motion-type information in the Cartesian space, and also having position and velocity information, the position, velocity and motion-type information defining a desired path; (b) setting a constant velocity parameter based upon the velocity information; (c) planning a set of interpolation parameters based on the position, velocity and motion-type information and based upon the constant velocity parameter; (d) computing a plurality of intermediate Cartesian positions including location and orientation components based upon the interpolation parameters, the intermediate Cartesian positions being on the desired path; (e) transforming the orientation components of the intermediate Cartesian positions into transformed orientation components; (f) smoothing the location components and the transformed orientation components into smoothed location and smoothed transformed orientation components; (g) inverse transforming the smoothed transformed orientation components into inverse transformed orientation components; and (h) generating a plurality of commands in the axis space based upon the smoothed location components and the inverse transformed orientation components. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of smoothing is accomplished with a plurality of cascaded linear filters, each of the cascaded linear filters corresponding to a respective Cartesian component. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein each cascaded linear filter has the same filter lengths. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein each of the cascaded linear filters has two-stages. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein each of the stages includes a shift register. 6. The method of claim 2 further comprising the steps of receiving a second motion command from the user program and blending the first and second motion commands by performing the steps (b)-(h) on the second motion command immediately after the steps (b)-(h) on the first motion command are completed, whereby the blending is achieved by the operation of the cascaded linear filters and the blended motion commands define a corner distance. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6 further comprising the step of modifying the location components and the transformed orientation components to the cascaded linear filters during the step of blending to thereby modify speed during blending wherein the corner distance is adjusted. 8. The method as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 further comprising the step of modifying the length of the cascaded linear filters, whereby the duration in which blending occurs is modified and the corner distance is adjusted. 9. A system for planning a path for a device in Cartesian space having a plurality of Cartesian components, the device being movable along axes defining an axis space, the system comprising: means for receiving a first motion command from a user program, the motion command having desired motion-type information in the Cartesian space, and also having position and velocity information, the position, velocity and motion-type information defining a desired path; means for setting a constant velocity parameter based upon the velocity information; means for planning a set of interpolation parameters based on the position, velocity and motion-type information and based upon the constant velocity parameter; means for computing a plurality of intermediate Cartesian positions including location and orientation components based upon the interpolation parameters, the intermediate Cartesian positions being on the desired path; means for transforming the orientation components of the intermediate Cartesian positions into transformed orientation components; means for smoothing the location components and the transformed orientation components into smoothed location and smoothed transformed orientation components; means for inverse transforming the smoothed transformed orientation components into inverse transformed orientation components; and means for generating a plurality of commands in the axis space based upon the smoothed location components and the inverse transformed orientation components. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein the means for smoothing includes a plurality of cascaded linear filters, each of the cascaded linear filters corresponding to a respective Cartesian component. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein each cascaded linear filter has the same filter lengths. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein each of the cascaded linear filters has two-stages. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein each of the stages includes a shift register. 14. The system of claim 10 further comprising means for receiving a second motion command from the user program and means for blending the first and second motion commands, whereby the blending is achieved by the operation of the cascaded linear filters and the blended motion commands define a corner distance. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14 further comprising means for modifying the location components and the transformed orientation components to the cascaded linear filters during blending to thereby modify speed during blending wherein the corner distance is adjusted. 16. The system as claimed in claim 14 or claim 15 further comprising means for modifying the length of the cascaded linear filters, whereby the duration in which blending occurs is modified and the corner distance is adjusted. 