A multi-degree-of-freedom vehicle employs a compliant linkage to accommodate the need for a variation in the distance between drive wheels or drive systems which are independently steerable and drivable. The subject vehicle is provided with rotary encodes to provide signals representative of the orientation of the steering pivot associated with each such drive wheel or system, and a linear encoder which issues a signal representative of the fluctuations in the distance between the drive elements. The wheels of the vehicle are steered and driven in response to the linear encoder signal, there being provided a controller system for minimizing the fluctuations in the distance. The controller system is a software implementation of a plurality of controllers, operating at the chassis level and at the vehicle level. A trajectory interpolator receives x-displacement, y-displacement, and .theta.-displacement signals and produces to the vehicle level controller trajectory signals corresponding to interpolated control signals. The x-displacement, y-displacement, and .theta.-displacement signals are received from a human operator, via a manipulable joy stick.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A drive arrangement for a vehicle having a plurality of drive wheels, the drive arrangement comprising: first and second chassis members each having at least one of the plurality of drive wheels associated therewith, each chassis member being steerable with respect to the vehicle and coupled thereto at a predetermined nominal distance from one another; distance monitoring means for producing distance data in the form of an electrical distance monitoring signal, said distance data being responsive to a variation in said predetermined nominal distance between said first and second chassis members, as the vehicle is driven; first and second steering angle monitoring means, each associated with a respective one of said first and second chassis members, for producing respective first and second steering angle data in the form of first and second steering angle signals; and drive control means for receiving at a first input thereof said electrical monitoring signal and at second and third inputs thereof respective ones of said first and second steering angle signals, and for controlling the plurality of drive wheels in response to said distance monitoring signal and said first and second steering angle signals, whereby said variation in said predetermined nominal distance is minimized as the vehicle is driven. 2. The drive arrangement of claim 1 wherein there is further provided: first coupling means for coupling said first chassis member to the vehicle; and said first steering angle monitoring means comprises a first rotation encoder means for producing said first steering angle signal responsive to a rotational orientation of said first chassis member with respect to the vehicle. 3. The drive arrangement of claim 2 wherein there is further provided: second coupling means for coupling said second chassis member to the vehicle; and said second steering angle monitoring means comprises a second rotation encoder means for producing said second steering angle signal responsive to a rotational orientation of said second chassis member with respect to the vehicle. 4. The drive arrangement of claim 3 wherein said second coupling means comprises a compliant linkage means for permitting said second chassis member to move over a predetermined distance with respect to the vehicle. 5. The drive arrangement of claim 4 wherein said compliant linkage means is arranged to permit said second chassis member to move over a predetermined distance with respect to said first chassis member. 6. The drive arrangement of claim 1 wherein there is further provided compliance means for permitting said predetermined nominal distance between said first and second chassis members to vary. 7. The drive arrangement of claim 6 wherein the vehicle is a multi-degree-of-freedom vehicle, said drive control means is of the type which functions digitally having predetermined sample periods, and said compliance means comprises compliance linkage means arranged to accommodate displacement discrepancies between said first and second chassis members which would otherwise cause wheel slippage during operation of the vehicle until correction therefor is made by said drive control means in response to said distance monitoring signal. 8. A drive arrangement for a vehicle, the drive arrangement comprising: a first drive assembly having at least a first drive wheel associated therewith, said first drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle at a first pivot point and being rotatable thereabout; a second drive assembly having at least a second drive wheel associated therewith, said second drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle at a second pivot point and being rotatable thereabout, said second pivot point being displaceable so as to be located within a predetermined range of distances from said first pivot point; distance monitoring means for producing distance data in the form of an electrical distance monitoring signal, said distance data being responsive to the distance between said first and second pivot points; and drive control means having an input for receiving said electrical distance monitoring signal, and first and second outputs for producing first and second drive signals, respectively, said first and second drive signals being applied to control said first and second drive wheels in response to said distance monitoring signal, whereby the distance between said first and second pivot points is maintained substantially constant as the vehicle is driven. 9. The drive arrangement of claim 8 wherein there is further provided at least one castor wheel associated with each of said first and second drive assemblies. 10. The drive arrangement of claim 8 wherein there are further provided first and second pivot drive means associated with respectively associated ones of said first and second drive assemblies for rotating said first and second drive assemblies about their respective first and second pivot points. 11. The drive arrangement of claim 10 wherein there is further provided controller means for controlling the operation of said first and second pivot drive means in response to said distance monitoring signal. 12. A drive arrangement for a vehicle, the drive arrangement comprising: a first drive assembly having at least one drive wheel associated therewith, said first drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle; a second drive assembly having at least one drive wheel associated therewith, said second drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle at a pivot point and being controllably rotatable thereabout, said pivot point being displaceable with respect to the vehicle; displacement monitoring means for producing displacement data in the form of an electrical displacement monitoring signal, said displacement data being responsive to the variations in the displacement of said second drive assembly with respect to the vehicle as the vehicle is driven; and control means for issuing a control signal for controlling at least one of said first and second drive assemblies in response to said displacement monitoring signal, whereby said variations in the displacement of said second drive assembly with respect to the vehicle are minimized. 13. The drive arrangement of claim 12 wherein there is further provided pivot rotation drive means for controllably rotating said second drive assembly about said pivot point in response to said displacement monitoring signal. 14. The drive arrangement of claim 12 wherein there is further provided means for controlling said drive wheel of said second drive assembly in response to said displacement monitoring signal. 15. The drive arrangement of claim 12 wherein there is further provided means for controlling said drive wheel of said first drive assembly in response to said displacement monitoring signal. 16. A drive arrangement for a vehicle, the drive arrangement comprising: a first drive assembly having a control input and at least one drive wheel associated therewith, said first drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle; first steering means for steering said drive wheel of said first drive assembly; a second drive assembly having a control input and at least one drive wheel associated therewith, said second drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle so as to be displaceable with respect thereto; second steering means for steering said drive wheel of said second drive assembly; displacement monitoring means for producing displacement data in the form of an electrical displacement monitoring signal, said displacement data being responsive to the displacement of said second drive assembly with respect to the vehicle as the vehicle is driven; and controller means having an input for receiving said electrical displacement monitoring signal, and an output for issuing a control signal, said control signal being responsive to said electrical displacement monitoring signal and being applied to said control input at least one of said first and second drive assemblies to control said displacement of said second drive assembly. 17. The drive arrangement of claim 16 wherein there is further provided first steering control means for controlling said first steering means in response to said electrical displacement monitoring signal. 18. The drive arrangement of claim 16 wherein there is further provided second steering control means for controlling said second steering means in response to said electrical displacement monitoring signal. 19. The drive arrangement of claim 16 wherein there is further provided means for controlling said drive wheel of said first drive assembly in response to said electrical displacement monitoring signal. 20. The drive arrangement of claim 16 wherein there is further provided means for controlling said drive wheel of said second drive assembly in response to said electrical displacement monitoring signal. 21. A drive arrangement for a vehicle, the drive arrangement comprising: a first drive assembly having a control input and a first drive wheel associated therewith, said first drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle; a first steering means for steering said first drive wheel; a first steering monitor means for producing first steering angle data in the form of a first electrical steering monitor signal, said first steering angle data being responsive to the steering orientation of said first drive wheel; a first drive assembly controller for controlling said first drive wheel, said first drive assembly controller having an input for receiving a first drive wheel control signal for controlling a speed of rotation of said first drive wheel; a second drive assembly having a control input and a second drive wheel associated therewith, said second drive assembly being coupled to the vehicle so as to be displaceable with respect thereto; a second steering means for steering said second drive wheel; a second steering monitor means for producing second steering angle data in the form of a second electrical steering monitor signal, said second steering angle data being responsive to the steering orientation of said second drive wheel; a second drive assembly controller for controlling said second drive wheel, said second drive assembly controller having an input for receiving a second drive wheel control signal for controlling a speed of rotation of said second drive wheel; displacement monitoring means for producing displacement data in the form of an electrical displacement monitoring signal responsive to the displacement of said second drive assembly with respect to the vehicle as the vehicle is driven; and vehicle level control means for issuing a control signal to the control input of at least one of said first and second drive assemblies in response to said electrical displacement monitoring signal for controlling the displacement of said second drive assembly with respect to the vehicle. 22. The drive arrangement of claim 21 wherein there is further provided vehicle controller means for coordinating the operations of said first and second drive assemblies, said vehicle controller means having: a first input for receiving said electrical displacement monitoring signal; a second input for receiving said first electrical steering monitor signal; a third input for receiving said second electrical steering monitor signal; a first output coupled to said first drive assembly controller for producing a first drive wheel speed control signal; and a second output coupled to said second drive assembly controller for producing a second drive wheel speed control signal. 23. The drive arrangement of claim 22 wherein there is further provided operator control means coupled to said vehicle controller means for providing thereto: an x-displacement signal containing x-data which corresponds to an x-displacement desired by the operator to be executed by the vehicle; a y-displacement signal containing y-data which corresponds to a y-displacement desired by the operator to be executed by the vehicle; and a .theta.-displacement signal containing .theta.-data which corresponds to a .theta.-displacement desired by the operator to be executed by the vehicle. 24. The drive arrangement of claim 23 wherein there is further provided trajectory interpolator means arranged to receive said x-displacement, y-displacement, and .theta.-displacement signals for providing to said vehicle controller means trajectory signals corresponding to at least a first trajectory interpolated control signal. 25. The drive arrangement of claim 24 wherein said trajectory interpolator means is provided with an alignment controller means for effecting a desired orientation of the vehicle at a predetermined location along a predetermined vehicle path. 26. A system for driving a vehicle along a surface, the system comprising: first and second drive assemblies for urging the vehicle to travel along the surface, each of said drive assemblies having at least a first drive wheel for engaging with the surface and being coupled to a respectively associated first drive means; distance monitoring means for producing distance data in the form of an electrical distance signal, said distance data being responsive to a distance between said first and second drive assemblies as the vehicle is driven; motor control means for controlling a speed of at least one of said drive means in response to said electrical distance signal; and motor control means for controlling a speed of at least one of said first and second drive means in response to said electrical distance signal for controlling the distance between said first and second drive assemblies. 27. The system of claim 26 wherein at least one of said first and second drive assemblies is a drive chassis, said drive chassis being provided with a second drive wheel for engaging with the surface and being coupled to an associated second drive means, said motor control means being arranged to control a relative speed of rotation of said first and second drive means of said drive chassis in response to said electrical distance signal. 28. A method of maneuvering a vehicle, the method comprising the steps of: applying steering and drive signals to each of two drive chassis coupled to the vehicle whereby the distance between the two drive chassis varies over a predetermined range of distances; producing distance data in the form of and electrical distance signal, said distance data being responsive to variations in the distance between the two drive chassis as the vehicle is driven; and controlling at least one of said steering and drive signals in response to the electrical distance signal, whereby the variations in the distance between the two drive chassis are minimized. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein there is further provided the step of trajectory interpolating for producing control signals which specify a predetermined trajectory for the vehicle. 30. The method of claim, 29 wherein said step of trajectory interpolating is responsive to operator control signals corresponding to respective directions of travel of the vehicle. 