The present invention is a method and apparatus for defining the critical characteristics of a pallet, or tray, used to supply workpieces to an automated, flexible assembly station or workcell. Once the characteristics are described and stored in memory, they may be used to uniquely identify workpieces which are determined to be defective during the automatic assembly operations.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of controlling a system for performing assembly operations on a plurality of workpieces residing on a pallet at a workcell, wherein the workcell includes a robot controller and a robot adapted to respond to commands received from the robot controller to assemble the workpieces comprising the steps of: defining a location for each of the plurality of workpieces on the pallet, including defining a geometric structure of the pallet including displaying, on a user-interface electrically interconnected to the workcell, a series of prompts to which an operator responds to characterize critical parameters of the pallet, storing, in a memory, all values that the operator enters in response to the prompts, and calculating, as a function of the values entered for the critical parameters, a nominal location for each of the plurality of workpieces residing on the pallet; and communicating from a cell controller to the workcell, said cell controller having a set of preprogrammed requirements stored in a memory therein, said preprogrammed requirements for controlling an operation of the workcell, so as to cause the workcell to assemble the plurality of workpieces residing on the pallet. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of defining the location of workpieces on the pallet further includes the step of teaching, by the operator manually directing the robot, a reference location for the pallet, said reference location being used by the robot controller to determine actual workpiece locations as a function of the reference location and the nominal location for each of the plurality of workpieces. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of defining the location of workpieces on the pallet further includes the step of manually entering coordinates of a reference location for the pallet, said reference location being used by the robot controller to determine actual workpiece locations as a function of the reference location and the nominal location for each of the plurality of workpieces. 4. The method of claim 1, further including the step of adjusting the nominal location for each of the plurality of workpieces residing on the pallet as a function of a frame error value which represents positioning inaccuracies within the workcell. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the frame error value is determined automatically by the robot controller using a method including the steps of: moving the robot to simulate a production situation, and upon arriving at an extreme workpiece location on the pallet, storing an actual robot position in memory; and calculating the frame error value as a function of the difference between the actual robot position at an extreme workpiece location and a corresponding nominal location for one of the plurality of workpieces residing on the pallet. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the frame error value is entered manually via the user interface. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of adjusting the nominal location for each of the plurality of workpieces residing on the pallet as a function of a frame error value comprises the steps of: teaching coordinates of at least two additional reference locations using the robot, to thereby determine the coordinates of at least three reference locations; storing the coordinates of the three reference locations in the memory; and automatically deriving the frame error value as a function of the coordinates of the three reference locations stored in the memory. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of defining the location of workpieces on the pallet includes the steps of: retrieving, from a storage memory, a set of critical parameter values which characterize the pallet; displaying, on a user-interface, the critical parameter values for the pallet while prompting the operator to make changes to those parameters which are incorrect; storing all corrections made by the operator to the critical parameter values to establish a set of updated parameter values; calculating, as a function of the updated parameter values, the nominal location for each of the plurality of workpieces residing on the pallet. 