A novel process for creating aesthetically pleasing multicolor designs and patterns in cast materials, particularly cementitious materials, which may be used to imitate natural stone in appearance. The process includes the steps of preparing multiple colors of the casting material, geometrically loading these colors in a three dimensional array in a holding container according to formulas corresponding to particular patterns to be created, placing the geometrically loaded colors into a mold by means which include pouring, extruding and spraying, consolidating the mixtures in the mold and allowing them to set, and removing the cast structure from the mold followed by polishing and sealing if required. A removable matrix in the holding container provides the ability to reliably repeat patterns according to the loading formulas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing reproducible colored and patterned castings which simulate natural stone having a pattern which continues from piece to piece, comprising the steps of; a) preparing a plurality of molds to receive casting mixtures by designating a pour design to be followed; b) preparing at least two different colored casting mixtures at a viscosity to facilitate even pouring; c) loading the casting mixtures into a container in a horizontal and vertical geometric arrangement according to a predetermined formula for a particular pattern; d) transferring the loaded mixtures to the molds in accordance with the pour design; and d) consolidating the mixture in the molds into a physically uniform mass and allowing the mass to set. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein preparing the molds comprises creating a diagram showing pieces to be cast in adjacent positions with a representation of the pattern thereon and transferring the representation to the molds to designate the pour design to be followed. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the pattern is transferred as a series of lines across the molds. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the pattern is transferred by marking entry and exit points for each part of the pattern on the edges of the molds. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the pattern is transferred using a grid coordinate system applied to the molds. 6. The method of claim 2 comprising preparing a plurality of molds, wherein the molds are positioned adjacent to each other and the casting mixtures are transferred to the molds along a continuous path from one mold to the next following the pour design. 7. The method of claim 2 applied to an automated environment wherein the pour design is an element of a computer program and the steps of preparation, loading and transferring the casting mixtures are controlled by the computer program. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the casting mixtures are transferred by pouring. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the casting mixtures are transferred by spraying. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the casting mixtures are transferred by extruding. 