A mixed-frequency, high temperature PECVD process is utilized to create a high quality silicon nitride layer having highly conformal properties. Deposition in an ammonia rich ambient at high temperature reduces microloading between dense and isolated features by improving surface mobility of precursors. High quality nitride films formed by the instant process are particularly suited for front-end applications such as the formation of spacer structures and the formation of contact etch stop layers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a silicon nitride layer over a substrate disposed in a substrate processing chamber, said method comprising: flowing a process gas comprising silane and ammonia into the processing chamber, wherein a flow ratio of said ammonia to said silane in said process gas is at least 10:1; and forming a plasma from the processing gas by applying both high and low frequency RF power to one or more electrodes in the chamber to deposit said silicon nitride layer. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein a total amount of RF power applied to said one or more electrodes during deposition of said silicon nitride layer is 2.5 Watts/in.sup.2 or less. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein 1.0 Watts/in.sup.2 or less of low frequency RF power is applied to one of said electrodes during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein 2.0 Watts/in.sup.2 or less of high frequency RF power is applied to one of said electrodes during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate is maintained at a temperature between about 500-580.degree. C. during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein pressure within the chamber is maintained at between about 1.0-4.0 Torr during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said process gas further comprises molecular nitrogen. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said silicon nitride film is deposited over a transistor gate as a barrier layer prior to the formation of a premetal dielectric layer. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said silicon nitride film exhibits a conformity of at least 90%. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said silicon nitride layer has a density of between about 2.6 and 2.9 g/cm.sup.3. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said silicon nitride film exhibits less than 10% microloading between dense structures spaced about 0.13 microns or less apart and isolated structures spaced apart by at least an order of magnitude more than said dense structures. 12. A method of forming a silicon nitride layer over a substrate disposed in a substrate processing chamber, said method comprising: flowing a process gas comprising silane, ammonia and molecular nitrogen into the substrate processing chamber, wherein a flow ratio of said ammonia to said silane in said process gas is at least 10:1; heating the substrate to a temperature of at least 500.degree. C.; and forming a plasma from the processing gas by applying both high and low frequency RF power to one or more electrodes in the chamber to deposit said silicon nitride layer, wherein (i) a power level at which the low frequency power is applied is less than a power level at which the high frequency power is applied, (ii) the low frequency RF power level is less than or equal to 1.0 Watts/in.sup.2 and (iii) the high frequency RF power is less than or equal to 2.0 Watts/in.sup.2. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein between 0.4 and 0.6 Watts/in.sup.2 of low frequency RF power is applied to one of said electrodes during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein between 1.0 and 2.0 Watts/in.sup.2 of high frequency RF power is applied to one of said electrodes during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said substrate is maintained at a temperature less between about 500-580.degree. C. during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein pressure within the chamber is maintained at between about 1.0-4.0 Torr during deposition of said silicon nitride layer. 