The method of changing the cage, including a bottom (31), grill (32) and lid (38), of a laboratory animal, includes the steps of: (a) providing a first rack (20) holding at least one clean bottom, grill and lid; (b) removing a clean bottom, grill and lid from said first rack; (c) assembling a clean cage from such bottom, grill and lid; (d) transferring a laboratory animal from a dirty cage to such assembled clean cage; (e) disassembling the dirty cage into its bottom, grill and lid components; (f) providing a second rack (20) having space for holding the dirty cage bottom, grill and lid components; (g) placing said dirty grill and lid on the second rack; (h) washing the dirty grill and lid while mounted on said second rack; (i) removing soiled bedding from the dirty bottom; (j) washing the bottom; (k) placing cleaned bedding in the washed bottom; and (l) placing said washed bottom with cleaned bedding on said second rack; thereby to change the cage of said laboratory animal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. The method of changing the cage of a laboratory animal, said cage including a bottom, a grill and a lid, comprising the steps of: providing a first rack having a plurality of stations for holding a corresponding plurality of bottoms, grills and lids, said stations holding at least one bottom, grill and lid; removing a bottom, grill and lid from said first rack; assembling a clean cage from the bottom, grill and lid removed from said first rack; providing a dirty cage; disassembling said dirty cage into its bottom, grill and lid components; providing a second rack having a plurality of stations for holding a corresponding plurality of bottoms, grills and lids, said second rack having space for at least one bottom, grill and lid; placing said dirty grill and lid on said second rack; washing said dirty grill and lid while mounted on said second rack; removing soiled bedding from said dirty bottom, washing said bottom; and placing said washed bottom on said second rack; thereby to change the cage of said laboratory animal. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, comprising the further step of: adding clean bedding to said washed bottom prior to its placement on said second rack. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the step of placing said washed bottom on said second rack comprises the steps of: placing said washed bottom on a pallet; and transferring said pallet to said second rack. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1, and further comprising the additional step of: sterilizing said second rack with said washed bottom, grill and lid thereon. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein each lid is slidably on said second rack. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1, comprising the further step of: providing a third rack having a plurality of stations for holding a corresponding plurality of bottoms, grills and lids; and coupling said second rack to said third rack before said dirty grill and lid are washed. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6, comprising the further step of: uncoupling said second and third racks after said dirty grill and lid have been washed. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said dirty cage contains a laboratory animal, and wherein said method comprises the further step of: transferring said laboratory animal from said dirty cage to said clean cage. 