A wafer handling wand allows the efficient loading and unloading of semiconductor wafers to and from a CMP apparatus. The wand includes identical work piece gripping, alignment, and loading/unloading mechanisms on the top and bottom sides. A processed wafer can be unloaded from the apparatus onto one side of the wand and an unprocessed wafer can be loaded into the apparatus from the second side. The gripping mechanism includes a support area and a spaced apart moveable gripping finger. Wafer loading is facilitated by a cam attached to the support area that rotates when the cam contacts the apparatus. Upon rotation, the cam provides a surface for directing the work piece into the apparatus. The surface of the cam also includes an alignment aid that can be brought into contact with a reference surface on the apparatus to insure proper alignment between the wand and the apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A work piece handling wand for loading an unprocessed work piece into a work piece processing apparatus and for unloading a processed work piece from the work piece processing apparatus, the work piece handling wand comprising: a support area comprising a support shelf and a raised wall extending upwardly from the support shelf, the support shelf and raised wall configured to contact an edge of a work piece at a first location; a gripping finger spaced apart from the support area, the gripping finger moveable from an extended position to a retracted position and configured to engage the edge of the work piece at a second location on a side of the work piece opposite the first location and to move the edge at the first location into contact with the support area when the gripping finger is moved to the retracted position; and a cam mechanism coupled to the support area and configured to raise the edge at the first location out of contact with the support area in response to the work piece handling wand being brought into proximity with the work piece processing apparatus. 2. The work piece handling wand of claim 1 wherein the raised wall comprises a concave arcuate shape having a diameter substantially equal to a diameter of the work piece. 3. The work piece handling wand of claim 2 wherein the support shelf is inclined below a line extending from the support area to the gripping finger and the raised wall is canted inwardly toward the gripping finger. 4. The work piece handling wand of claim 1 wherein the gripping finger comprises: a finger support shelf; and a finger raised wall extending upwardly from the finger support shelf. 5. The work piece handling wand of claim 4 wherein the finger support shelf is inclined below a line extending from the support area to the gripping finger and the finger raised wall is canted inwardly toward the support area. 6. The work piece handling wand of claim 1 further comprising an arm assembly spaced apart from and coupled to the support area by a support strut extending from the support area to the arm assembly, the gripping finger slideably moveable on the arm assembly. 7. The work piece handling wand of claim 6 further comprising a drive rod extending from the support area to the gripping finger and capable of moving the gripping finger on the arm assembly between the extended position and the retracted position. 8. The work piece handling wand of claim 1 wherein the cam mechanism comprises a spring loaded cam mounted at an extremity of the support area and configured to be rotatable about a pivot pin in response to the cam contacting the work piece processing apparatus. 9. The work piece handling wand of claim 8 wherein the cam comprises a first curved surface configured to contact, upon rotation of the cam, the edge of the work piece and to move the edge out of contact with the raised wall. 10. The work piece handling wand of claim 9 wherein the cam further comprises a first substantially flat surface configured to provide, upon further rotation of the cam, a ramp upon which the work piece can be caused to slide to effect a raising of the work piece away from the support shelf. 11. The work piece handling wand of claim 10 wherein the cam further comprises a second substantially flat surface configured to seat, upon further rotation of the cam, against a flat surface on the work piece processing apparatus. 12. The work piece handling wand of claim 11 wherein the cam further comprises an alignment aid positioned between the first substantially flat surface and the second substantially flat surface, the alignment aid configured to mate with a reference surface on the work piece processing apparatus. 13. The work piece handling wand of claim 12 further comprising a second spring loaded cam coupled to the support area, rotatable about a second pivot pin in response to the second spring loaded cam contacting the work piece processing apparatus, and configured to provide a cam surface upon which a processed work piece can slide during an unloading operation. 14. The work piece handling wand of claim 13 wherein the pivot pin is configured to provide a stop limiting the rotation of the second spring loaded cam and the second pivot pin is configured to provide a stop limiting the rotation of the spring loaded cam. 15. The work piece handling wand of claim 13 further comprising a third spring loaded cam and a fourth spring loaded cam, each of the third spring loaded cam and the fourth spring loaded cam mounted at an opposite extremity of the support area, the third spring loaded cam substantially identical to the spring loaded cam and the fourth spring loaded cam substantially identical to the second spring loaded cam. 16. The work piece handling wand of claim 8 further comprising a second spring loaded cam coupled to the support area, rotatable about a second pivot pin in response to the second spring loaded cam contacting the work piece processing apparatus, and configured to provide a cam surface upon which a processed work piece can slide during an unloading operation. 17. The work piece handling wand of claim 16 wherein the support area and gripping finger are positioned on a first side of the work piece handling wand and the spring loaded cam and the second spring loaded cam are configured to operate in connection with a first work piece engaged by the support area and gripping finger, the work piece handling wand further comprising a second side opposite the first side, the second side of the work piece handling wand comprising: a second support area comprising a second support shelf and a second raised wall extending outwardly from the second support shelf, the second support shelf and the second raised wall configured to contact an edge of a second work piece at a first location; a second gripping finger spaced apart from the second support area, the second gripping finger moveable from an extended position to a retracted position and configured to engage the edge of the second work piece at a second location on a side of the second work piece opposite the first location and to move the edge of the second work piece at the first location into contact with the second support area when the second gripping finger is moved to the retracted position; a third spring loaded cam mounted at an extremity of the second support area, rotatable about the pivot pin, and having a surface configured to move the edge of the second work piece at the first location out of contact with the second raised wall in response to the third spring loaded cam contacting the work piece processing apparatus; and a fourth spring loaded cam coupled to the second support area, rotatable about the second pivot pin in response to the fourth spring loaded cam contacting the work piece processing apparatus, and configured to provide a cam surface upon which a processed work piece can slide during an unloading operation. 18. The work piece handling wand of claim 17 wherein the spring loaded cam and the third spring loaded cam are substantially identical in configuration and the second spring loaded cam and the fourth spring loaded cam are substantially identical in configuration. 19. The work piece handling wand of claim 1 wherein the support area and gripping finger are located on a first side of the work piece handling wand and the cam mechanism is configured to operate in connection with a first work piece engaged by the support area and gripping finger, the work piece handling wand further comprising a second side opposite the first side, the second side of the work piece handling wand comprising: a second support area comprising a second support shelf and a second raised wall extending outwardly from the second support shelf, the second support shelf and the second raised wall configured to contact an edge of a second work piece at a first location on the second work piece; and a second gripping finger spaced apart from the second support area, the second gripping finger moveable from an extended position to a retracted position and configured to engage the edge of the second work piece at a second location on a side of the second work piece opposite the first location on the second work piece and to move the edge at the first location on the second work piece into contact with the second support area when the second gripping finger is moved to the retracted position. 20. The work piece handling wand of claim 19 further comprising a second cam mechanism coupled to the second support area and configured to move the edge of the second work piece at the first location on the second work piece out of contact with the second raised wall in response to the work piece handling wand being brought into proximity with the work piece processing apparatus. 21. The work piece handling wand of claim 20 further comprising a spring loaded cam coupled to the second support area, rotatable about a pivot pin in response to the spring loaded cam contacting the work piece processing apparatus, and configured to provide a cam surface upon which a processed work piece can slide during an unloading operation. 22. The work piece handling wand of claim 21 further comprising first and second position sensors configured to detect movement of the gripping finger and second gripping finger, respectively, to their respective retracted positions. 23. The work piece handling wand of claim 22 further comprising: a first gravity sensor configured to detect the presence of the work piece seated against the support shelf; and a second gravity sensor configured to detect the presence of the second work piece seated against the second support shelf. 24. The work piece handling wand of claim 23 wherein the first position sensor and the first gravity sensor are logically coupled in an AND configuration and wherein the second position sensor and the second gravity sensor are logically coupled in an AND configuration. 25. A work piece handling wand for loading an unprocessed work piece into a work piece processing apparatus and for unloading a processed work piece from the work piece processing apparatus, the work piece handling wand comprising: a first side comprising a first support structure and a first movable gripping finger spaced apart from the first support structure and configured to confine a first work piece between the first support structure and the first movable gripping finger; and a second side opposite the first side, the second side comprising a second support structure and a second movable gripping finger spaced apart from the second support structure and configured to confine a second work piece between the second support structure and the second movable gripping finger. 26. The work piece handling wand of claim 25 further comprising a first cam mechanism coupled to the first support structure and configured to raise an edge of an unprocessed work piece out of contact with the first support structure and toward a work piece processing apparatus in response to the work piece handling wand being brought into proximity with the work piece processing apparatus. 27. The work piece handling wand of claim 26 further comprising a second cam mechanism coupled to the second support structure and configured to guide a processed work piece from the work piece processing apparatus to a position where the processed work piece can be contacted by the second support structure and the second movable gripping finger. 28. The work piece handling wand of claim 27 further comprising: a third cam mechanism substantially similar to the first cam mechanism, the third cam mechanism coupled to the second support structure; and a fourth cam mechanism substantially similar to the second cam mechanism, the fourth cam mechanism coupled to the first support structure. 29. A method for processing work pieces in a work piece processing apparatus, the method comprising the steps of: gripping a first work piece by a first gripping mechanism on a first side of a work piece handling wand; transferring the first work piece from the work piece handling wand to a work piece processing apparatus; performing a process on the first work piece in the work piece processing apparatus; gripping a second work piece by the gripping mechanism on the first side of the work piece handling wand; transferring the first work piece from the work piece processing apparatus to a second gripping mechanism on a second side of the work piece handling wand; rotating the work piece handling wand by 180.degree.; and transferring the second work piece from the work piece handling wand to the work piece processing apparatus. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the step of performing a process comprises the step of performing a chemical mechanical planarization process. 31. The method of claim 29 wherein the step of gripping a first work piece comprises the steps of: extending a first moveable gripping finger on the first side of the work piece handling wand to an extended position spaced apart from a first support area; positioning the work piece handling wand to place the first work piece between the first moveable gripping finger and the first support area; moving the first moveable gripping finger to a retracted position to move the first work piece into contact with the first support area and to confine the first work piece between the first moveable gripping finger and the first support area. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the step of transferring the first work piece from the work piece handling wand comprises the steps of: positioning the work piece handling wand and the first work piece below a work piece processing area of the work piece processing apparatus; extending the first moveable gripping finger slightly in the direction of the extended position; pressing a cam coupled to the support area against the work piece processing apparatus to cause the cam to rotate about a pivot pin; causing a surface of the cam to contact an edge of the first work piece and to raise the first work piece out of contact with the first support area as the cam rotates; moving the first moveable gripping finger toward the first support area to cause the edge of the first work piece to slide on the cam surface toward the work piece processing area. 33. The method of claim 32 further comprising the step of engaging an alignment aid on the surface of the cam with a reference surface on the work piece processing apparatus to align the first work piece with the work piece processing area. 34. The method of claim 29 wherein the step of transferring the first work piece from the work piece handling wand further comprises the step of applying a jet of fluid to a lower surface of the work piece to move the work piece into contact with the work piece processing apparatus. 35. The method of claim 29 wherein the step of transferring the first work piece from the work piece processing apparatus comprises the steps of: aligning the second side of the work piece handling wand below a work piece processing area of the work piece processing apparatus; moving a second moveable gripping finger on the second side of the work piece handling wand to an extended position spaced apart from a second support area on the second side of the work piece handling wand; moving a second cam coupled to the second support area into contact with the work piece processing apparatus to cause the second cam to rotate about a pivot pin and to present a second cam surface to the first work piece; allowing the first work piece to slide on the second cam surface to a position between the second gripping finger and the second support area; and moving the second moveable gripping finger to a retracted position to move the first work piece into contact with the second support area and to confine the first work piece between the second support area and the second moveable gripping finger. 36. A method for processing work pieces in a work piece processing apparatus, the method comprising the steps of: transferring a first processed work piece from a work piece processing apparatus to a first side of a work piece handling wand; rotating the work piece handling wand by 180.degree.; and subsequently transferring a second unprocessed work piece from a second side of the work piece handling wand to the work piece processing apparatus. 37. A method for processing work pieces in a work piece processing apparatus, the method comprising the steps of: positioning a work piece handling wand relative to a cache containing a plurality of work pieces; gripping a first work piece from the plurality of work pieces by an edge grip mechanism on a first side of the work piece handling wand; positioning the work piece handling wand below a work piece area of a work piece processing apparatus; transferring the first work piece from the first side of the work piece handling wand to the work piece area; processing the first work piece in the work piece processing apparatus; gripping a second work piece from the plurality of work pieces by an edge grip mechanism on the first side of the work piece handling wand; positioning the work piece handling wand below the work piece area of the work piece processing apparatus; transferring the first work piece from the work piece processing apparatus to a second edge grip mechanism on a second side of the work piece handling wand; rotating the work piece handling wand by 180.degree. to position the second work piece below the work piece area of the work piece processing apparatus; and transferring the second work piece from the second side of the work piece handling wand to the work piece area. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of processing the first work piece comprises the step of chemical mechanical planarizing a surface of the first work piece. 