This invention provides a process for treating a workpiece having a front side, a back side, and an outer perimeter. In accordance with the process, a processing fluid is selectively applied or excluded from an outer peripheral margin of at least one of the front or back sides or the workpiece. Exclusion and/or application of the processing fluid occurs by applying one or more processing fluids to the workpiece as the workpiece and corresponding reactor are spinning about an axis of rotation that is generally orthogonal to the center of the face of the workpiece being processed. The flow rate of the one or more processing fluids, fluid pressure, and/or spin rate are used to control the extent to which the processing fluid is selectively applied or excluded from the outer peripheral margin.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with metal ions, comprising: (a) placing the semiconductor workpiece in a reaction chamber; (b) supplying a first fluid to the chamber to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece and said first fluid comprises an aqueous etchant solution comprised of an acid selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece; and (d) supplying a second fluid to the chamber to expose the front side to the second fluid. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the first and second fluids are supplied concurrently to the back and front sides, respectively, of the workpiece. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the first and second fluids are supplied at different time periods. 4. The process of claim 1, further comprising exposing the peripheral edge of the workpiece to the first fluid. 5. The process of claim 4, further comprising exposing the outer perimeter edge portion of the back side to the first fluid. 6. The process of claim 1, wherein the second fluid comprises a fluid that is different from the first fluid. 7. The process of claim 1, wherein the second fluid comprises an inert purge gas or an aqueous rinse. 8. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with metal ions, comprising: (a) placing the semiconductor workpiece in a reaction chamber; (b) supplying a first fluid to the chamber to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece and said first fluid comprises an aqueous etchant solution comprised of an acid selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece; (d) supplying a second fluid to the chamber to expose the front side to the second fluid; and (e) wherein the reaction chamber comprises a first chamber portion and a second chamber portion that are defined by separable first and second reactor members that cooperatively support the workpiece. 9. The process of claim 8, wherein the first and second reactor members are spun together on a common axis during the supplying of the first and second fluids to the workpiece. 10. The process of claim 8, further comprising spinning the reactor chamber and workpiece while supplying the first fluid to etch the surface portion of the workpiece. 11. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with metal ions, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion that receives the back side and including a first fluid inlet and a second chamber portion receiving the front side and including a second fluid inlet; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; and (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece and said first fluid comprises an aqueous etchant solution which comprises an acid selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece. 12. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with metal ions, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion that receives the back side and including a first fluid inlet and a second chamber portion receiving the front side and including a second fluid inlet; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece and said first fluid comprises an aqueous etchant solution which comprises an acid selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece; and (d) wherein the first chamber portion and the second chamber portion are defined by separable first and second reactor members that cooperatively support the workpiece. 13. The process of claim 12, wherein the first and second reactor members are spun together on a common axis during the supplying of the first and second fluids to the workpiece. 14. The process of claim 12, further comprising spinning the reactor chamber and workpiece while supplying the first fluid to etch the surface portion of the workpiece. 15. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with copper ions, comprising: (a) placing the semiconductor workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion that receives the back side of the workpiece and a second chamber portion that receives the front side of the workpiece; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period and comprises an aqueous etchant solution which comprises an acid selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove at least a portion of the contaminant copper ions from the back side of the workpiece; and (d) supplying a second fluid to the second chamber portion to expose the front side to the second fluid. 16. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with copper ions, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion that receives the back side and including a first fluid inlet and a second chamber portion receiving the front side and including a second fluid inlet; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; and (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period and comprises an aqueous etchant solution which comprises an acid selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove at least a portion of the contaminant copper ions from the back side of the workpiece. 17. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with metal ions, comprising: (a) placing the semiconductor workpiece in a reaction chamber; (b) supplying a first fluid to the chamber to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece and said first fluid comprises an aqueous etchant solution comprised of: (a1) an acid, selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove at least a portion of the contaminant metal ions from the back side of the workpiece, and (b1) an oxidizing agent; and (d) supplying a second fluid to the chamber to expose the front side to the second fluid. 18. The process of claim 17, wherein the aqueous etchant solution is selected from the group consisting of: (a2) hydrofluoric acid and hydrogen peroxide, (b2) hydrofluoric acid and ozone in an aqueous solution, (c2) sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide, (d2) hydrofluoric acid and hydrochloric acid, and (e2) nitric acid and hydrofluoric acid. 19. The process of claim 18, wherein the hydrofluoric acid is included at a level of 0.4 to 0.6 volume % and the hydrogen peroxide is included at a level of 5.0 to 15.0 volume %. 20. The process of claim 18, wherein the hydrofluoric acid is included at a level of 0.4 to 0.6 volume % and the ozone is present in solution at a level of from 10 parts per million to an ozone saturated solution. 21. A process for treating a semiconductor workpiece having a front side on which a plurality of metallized devices are formed, an opposing back side and a peripheral edge defined between the front and back sides, the back side and/or peripheral edge being contaminated with copper ions, comprising: (a) placing the workpiece in a reaction chamber that includes a first chamber portion that receives the back side and including a first fluid inlet and a second chamber portion receiving the front side and including a second fluid inlet; (b) supplying a first fluid to the first chamber portion to expose the back side to the first fluid while excluding at least a major portion of the front side from exposure to the first fluid; (c) wherein the first fluid is supplied for a sufficient time period and comprises an aqueous etchant solution which comprises an acid selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove at least a portion of the contaminant copper ions from the back side of the workpiece; and (d) wherein the etchant comprises: (a1) an acid, selected and supplied at a concentration level sufficient to remove at least a portion of the contaminant copper ions from the back side of the workpiece, and (b1) an oxidizing agent. 22. The process of claim 21, wherein the etchant is selected from the group consisting of: (a2) hydrofluoric acid and hydrogen peroxide, (b2) hydrofluoric acid and ozone in an aqueous solution, (c2) sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide, (d2) hydrofluoric acid and hydrochloric acid, and (e2) nitric acid and hydrofluoric acid. 23. The process of claim 22, wherein the hydrofluoric acid is included at a level of 0.4 to 0.6 volume % and the hydrogen peroxide is included at a level of from 5.0 to 15.0 volume %. 24. The process of claim 22, wherein the hydrofluoric acid is included at a level of from 0.4 to 0.6 volume % and the ozone is present in solution at a level of from 10 parts per million to an ozone saturated solution. 