A user can place the multifunctional mobile appliance in a work area bounded by a set of impulse radio, or GPS, transceivers. The appliance independently and accurately maps the work area and proceeds to perform one or more tasks over that area, as directed by the user. These tasks include, but are not limited to, mowing, vacuuming, scrubbing, waxing, and polishing. The user may control, through the World Wide Web, what tasks are performed where and when. Both the user and the appliance can make use of services that are provided on the Internet to enhance the performance of the appliance. The appliance is safe, silent, self-sufficient, nimble, and non-polluting. It is equipped with sensors to enable it to avoid obstacles and other less than optimal operating conditions.
Claims I claim: 1. A multifunctional mobile appliance comprising a carriage, means for providing energy for said carriage, means for moving said carriage, impulse radio means for generating navigation signals adapted to control the movement of said carriage by said moving means, memory means for receiving and storing location information signals relative to an area over which said carriage is adapted to be moved, means for comparing the navigation signals of said impulse radio means and the location information signals of said memory means and generating a carriage control signal therefrom, means for controlling the movement of said carriage in response to said carriage control signal to effect movement of said carriage by said moving means along the area, means for performing a task over the area during the movement of said carriage, and means for controlling the operation of said task performing means. 2. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said impulse radio means includes a mobile impulse radio on said carriage and a reference impulse radio on one of satellites, a fixed station communicating using directional antenna means, and a plurality of fixed stations communicating using omnidirectional antenna means. 3. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said impulse radio means includes a mobile impulse radio on said carriage and a reference impulse radio on one of satellites, a fixed station communicating using directional antenna means, and a plurality of fixed stations communicating using omnidirectional antenna means; and said fixed stations include one of facilities and services provided by a public utility. 4. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said location information signals include perimeter data determined by the mobile appliance using perimeter detection sensor means toward recognizing portions of a perimeter that are marked by identifiable physical features, and location information signals from one of said impulse radio means and satellite navigation receiver means located substantially on a perimeter of the area over which work is to be performed. 5. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said location information signals include perimeter data determined by the mobile appliance using perimeter detection sensor means toward recognizing portions of a perimeter that are marked by identifiable physical features, said perimeter detection sensor means including one of an ultrasonic transducer, a radar means, a lidar means, visible imaging means and infrared imaging means; and location information signals from one of said impulse radio means and satellite navigation receiver means located substantially on a perimeter of the area over which work is to be performed. 6. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for inertially navigating said carriage, and said carriage movement control means being responsive to said inertial navigating means. 7. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for inertially navigating said carriage, said inertial navigating means including one of a wheel rotation encoder and an accelerometer, and said carriage movement control means being responsive to said inertial navigating means. 8. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for inertially navigating said carriage, said inertial navigating means including one of a gyroscope, inclinometer, and a magnetometer, and said carriage movement control means being responsive to said inertial navigating means. 9. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for detecting less than optimal operating conditions within the area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved, and means for adapting the movement of said carriage toward minimizing the degradation in performance caused by said less than optimal conditions. 10. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for detecting less than optimal operating conditions within the area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved, said detecting means including one of an ultrasonic transducer, a radar means, and a lidar means; and means for adapting the movement of said carriage toward minimizing the degradation in performance caused by said less than optimal conditions. 11. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for detecting less than optimal operating conditions within the area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved, said detecting means including image-processing software and one of a visible imaging means and an infrared imaging means; and means for adapting the movement of said carriage toward minimizing the degradation in performance caused by said less than optimal conditions. 12. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for detecting less than optimal operating conditions within the area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved, said detecting means including one of an inductive transducer, a capacitive transducer, and a wheel rotation sensor; and means for adapting the movement of said carriage toward minimizing the degradation in performance caused by said less than optimal conditions. 13. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for remotely controlling said carriage movement controlling means and said task controlling means. 14. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for remotely controlling said carriage movement controlling means and said task controlling means, and said remotely controlling means is responsive to one of spread-spectrum signals, impulse radio signals, and frequency-hopping signals. 15. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for remotely controlling said carriage movement controlling means and said task controlling means, and said remotely controlling means is responsive to signals carried over public utilities. 16. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for remotely controlling said carriage movement controlling means and said task controlling means, said remotely controlling means is responsive to signals carried over public utilities, and said public utilities including one of the Internet and the World Wide Web. 17. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said means for providing energy includes converting sunlight into electrical energy. 18. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said energy providing means includes means for energy distribution, means for sensing the need for more energy to satisfy the requirements of said task performing means, said carriage movement controlling means being responsive to said sensing means for moving said carriage to said energy distribution means, means for transferring energy from said energy distribution means to said carriage energy providing means, and means for controlling the transfer of energy from said energy distribution means to said carriage energy providing means. 19. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said energy providing means includes means for energy distribution, means for sensing the need for more energy to satisfy the requirements of said task performing means, said carriage movement controlling means being responsive to said sensing means for moving said carriage to said energy distribution means, means for transferring energy from said energy distribution means to said carriage energy providing means, said energy transferring means includes one of inductive coupling and conductive coupling, and means for controlling the transfer of energy from said energy distribution means to said carriage energy providing means. 20. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said energy providing means includes means for energy distribution, said energy distribution means includes a public power utility, means for sensing the need for more energy to satisfy the requirements of said task performing means, said carriage movement controlling means being responsive to said sensing means for moving said carriage to said energy distribution means, means for transferring energy from said energy distribution means to said carriage energy providing means, and means for controlling the transfer of energy from said energy distribution means to said carriage energy providing means. 21. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for dispensing material, means for sensing the need for additional material to satisfy the requirements of said task performing means, said carriage movement controlling means being responsive to said sensing means for moving said carriage to said material dispensing means, means for transferring the material from said material dispensing means to said carriage task performing means, and said task controlling means being responsive to said sensing means for the collection of material from said material dispensing means. 22. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for collecting waste, means for sensing the need for the removal of waste from said carriage to satisfy the requirements of said task performing means, said carriage movement controlling means being responsive to said sensing means for moving said carriage to said waste collecting means, means for transferring the waste from said carriage to said waste collecting means, and said task controlling means being responsive to said sensing means for the discharge of the waste into said waste collecting means. 23. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said location information signals stored in said memory means include data defining at least one perimeter of the area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved. 24. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for teaching said movement controlling means said location information signals, and said location information signals including data defining at least one perimeter of said area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved. 25. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for teaching said movement controlling means said location information signals, and said location information signals including data defining at least one perimeter of said area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved taught by said teaching means in the absence of physically guiding said carriage relative to said perimeter. 26. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for teaching said movement controlling means said location information signals, and said location information signals including data defining at least one perimeter of said area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved taught by said teaching means through the physical guiding of said carriage relative to said perimeter. 27. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising means for teaching said movement controlling means said location information signals, and said teaching means including one of a membrane switch and speech generation for a user interface. 28. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising second means for performing a second task differing from the first task over the area during movement of said carriage, and means for effecting selective operation of said first and second task performing means. 29. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 further comprising second means for performing a second task differing from the first task over the area during movement of said carriage, and means for automating the substitution of one of said task performing means for another of said task performing means. 30. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task controlling means is responsive to information provided by one of a user and a user support service toward varying one of the quantity and quality of the task performed by said task performing means in different portions of the area over which work is adapted to be performed. 31. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means extends outside of at least one side of said carriage for performing the task thereof substantially at a perimeter of the area over which the carriage is adapted to be moved. 32. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means includes means for moving said task performing means in response to one of striking an obstacle and overloading of said task performing means. 33. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means is a mower. 34. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means is one of a vacuum, a sander, and a polisher. 35. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means includes a rotating blade assembly, filtration means surrounding said blade assembly, and said filtration means prevents contact between said blade assembly and objects whose dimensions are substantially equal to the diameter of a finger. 36. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means includes a rotating blade assembly, filtration means surrounding said blade assembly, said filtration means prevents contact between said blade assembly and objects whose dimensions are substantially equal to the diameter of a finger, and said filtration means includes thin, closely-spaced, substantially parallel members of stiff but resilient material. 37. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means includes a rotating blade assembly, said blade assembly includes blades mounted substantially at a perimeter of one of a disk and a cylinder, filtration means surrounding said blade assembly, and said filtration means prevents contact between said blade assembly and objects whose dimensions are substantially equal to the diameter of a finger. 38. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means includes a rotating blade assembly, said blade assembly includes blades mounted substantially at a perimeter of one of a disk and a cylinder, said blades include cutting surfaces protruding outside of an edge of said perimeter a maximum distance which is substantially less than the diameter of a finger, filtration means surrounding said blade assembly, and said filtration means prevents contact between said blade assembly and objects whose dimensions are substantially equal to the diameter of a finger. 39. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means includes a rotating blade assembly, said blade assembly includes blades mounted substantially at a perimeter of one of a disk and a cylinder, retraction means to effect the movement of said blades to a sheltered position when subjected to conditions likely to result in one of damage to and obstruction of the blades, filtration means surrounding said blade assembly, and said filtration means prevents contact between said blade assembly and objects whose dimensions are substantially equal to the diameter of a finger. 40. The multifunctional mobile appliance as defined in claim 1 wherein said task performing means includes a rotating blade assembly, a cutting means, said rotating blade assembly includes said cutting means mounted on one of a substantially helical edge and substantially uniformly around a central shaft, filtration means surrounding said blade assembly, and said filtration means prevents contact between said blade assembly and objects whose dimensions are substantially equal to the diameter of a finger. 41. A method of controlling a mobile appliance comprising the steps of transmitting and receiving impulse radio navigation signals adapted to control the movement of the mobile appliance, learning and storing location information signals relative to an area over which the mobile appliance is adapted to be moved, comparing said impulse radio navigation signals and said location information signals and generating a mobile appliance control signal therefrom, controlling the movement of the mobile appliance in response to said mobile appliance control signal to effect movement of the mobile appliance along said area, controlling the performance of a task over said area during the movement of the mobile appliance, and adapting the movement of the mobile appliance to minimize the effect of less than optimal operating conditions for the performance of said task. 42. The method as defined in claim 41 further comprising the steps of comparing the impulse radio navigation signals with inertial navigation information toward enabling the selection of the best impulse radio navigation signals from a plurality of received impulse radio navigation signals to thereby refine the accuracy of said mobile appliance control signal prior to effecting the movement of the mobile appliance thereby, and bridging any temporary loss of received impulse radio navigation signals with inertial navigation information toward ensuring the continuity of said mobile appliance control signal. 43. The method as defined in claim 41 wherein the step of learning and storing location information signals includes learning the perimeter of the area over which work is to be performed through one of the steps of guiding the mobile appliance around said perimeter and combining perimeter detection sensor data gathered by the mobile appliance through exploration with location information signals transmitted from a set of reference impulse radios or satellite navigation receivers placed substantially on the perimeter. 44. The method as defined in claim 41 wherein the step of learning and storing location information signals includes the steps of mapping an area roughly confined by perimeter location information received from a set of one of reference impulse radios and satellite navigation receivers placed at positions substantially along the perimeter defining the area over which the task is to be performed into a plurality of substantially equally spaced grid points with the distance between adjacent grid points corresponding substantially to one of a predetermined path width and a fraction of the predetermined path width, quantizing the direction of movement of the mobile appliance into a set of vectors connecting the grid point representing the present location of the mobile appliance with the grid points immediately adjacent to the present location grid point, initiating the movement of the mobile appliance along a path from one grid point to an adjacent grid point, recording the sequence of grid points crossed by the mobile appliance toward ensuring that the task is performed substantially over the area represented by the grid points, executing a centrifugal routing algorithm whereby the mobile appliance moves (a) forward toward adjacent grid points where the task has not yet been performed, and (b) preferentially moves toward those grid points requiring movement vectors with a predetermined rotation from the current movement vector, combining perimeter location information gathered by a mobile appliance perimeter detection sensor with said impulse radio and satellite navigation perimeter location information to determine when a perimeter has been reached, and storing said combined perimeter location information. 45. The method as defined in claim 41 further comprising the steps of transferring energy to the mobile appliance through one of the steps of converting sunlight into electrical energy and controlling the movement of the mobile appliance, in response to sensing the need for more energy to satisfy the requirements of a task, to a fixed station where energy can be transferred through one of an inductive and conductive coupling. 46. A vegetation-cutting device comprising a rotating blade assembly, filtration means surrounding said blade assembly, said filtration means prevents contact between said blade assembly and objects whose dimensions are substantially equal to the diameter of a finger, said filtration means includes thin, closely-spaced, members of stiff but resilient material, and said blade assembly includes blades mounted substantially at a perimeter of one of a disk and a cylinder. 47. The vegetation-cutting device as defined in claim 46 wherein said blades include cutting surfaces protruding outside of the edge of said perimeter a maximum distance which is substantially less than the diameter of a finger. 48. The vegetation-cutting device as defined in claim 46 farther comprising retraction means to effect the movement of said blades to a sheltered position when subjected to conditions likely to result in one of damage to and obstruction of the blades. 