A method and system are provided for automatically positioning specimen containers and culture medium containers and transferring specimen samples from the containers to the culture medium. The samples are positioned at predetermined locations, and a sample is automatically streaked in a pattern on the culture medium after deposition of the sample. A means is also provided for establishing the predetermined locations by recording a position of a deposit location in a memory as deposit location data. Biological specimens such as a sample of bacteria are used in the method and system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated specimen container transport, handling and inoculating system for transferring a sample of a bacteria specimen from specimen containers to a culture medium, followed by streaking of said sample bacteria specimen over said culture medium comprising: (a) a specimen delivery system to convey a sample of the specimen from its original specimen container to a deposit location on a culture medium; (b) means for recording a position of said deposit location in a memory as deposit location data; (c) a streaking tool carried by a streaking mechanism; and (d) a controller for said streaking mechanism wherein said controller, using the recorded deposit location data to guide the streaking tool, directs the streaking tool to move to said culture medium and effect a streaking pattern over said culture medium. 2. A system as in claim 1 wherein said specimen containers contain differing specimen types and are each identified by specimen indicia corresponding to each specimen, said inoculating system further comprising an indicia reader for identifying the specimen indicia and for providing a specimen signal to the streaking mechanism, wherein the streaking pattern executed by the streaking tool is controlled by a signal from the controller that, based on the specimen signal of the indicia reader, conforms to a predefined pattern that corresponds to the identity of the specimen sample. 3. A system as in claim 1 wherein said specimen delivery system comprises a grasping manipulator in combination with a swab mounted at the end of a swab stem as a carrier for the sample specimen wherein the swab is carried to and positioned by the grasping manipulator at the deposit location. 4. A system as in claim 3 comprising: (a) a tip location device to which the swab and swab stem are presented by the grasping manipulator whereby the location of the swab with respect to the grasping manipulator is determined by a visual examination effected by the tip location device; and (b) a location memory accessible by the controller wherein the swab location with respect to the grasping manipulator is then stored, whereby the stored swab location is subsequently used by the controller to control the specimen delivery system in positioning the swab on the culture medium at the deposit location. 5. A system as in claim 4, wherein said grasping manipulator includes means for rotating said stem to rotate said swab in contact with said culture medium and for moving an axis of rotation of said stem to offset distortion of the stem. 6. A system as in claim 4 wherein the controller of the specimen delivery system comprises control means for effecting reinsertion of the swab into a specimen container using the swab location data stored in the location memory of the controller to ensure that the swab passes into the specimen container without contaminating its exterior surface. 7. A system as in claim 3 wherein a grasping mechanism of said grasping manipulator provides an axis of rotation and the swab is mechanically fixtured to ensure that it is positioned along said axis of rotation by providing a guide to guide the swab into alignment with the axis of rotation during transfer of bacteria specimen to the culture medium. 8. A system as claimed in claim 1 in combination with a threaded, capped specimen container with identifying specimen indicia encoded on the side of the container comprising a container manipulating device including means for: (a) grasping the cap of the container while the container is rotated by a rotating container holder at a lid-opening station; and (b) raising and removing the cap of the specimen container to one side once the rotating container holder has rotated the container sufficiently so as to cause the cap and the container to disengage and wherein an indicia reader is located to one side of the rotating container holder to read said specimen indicia encoded on the side of the specimen container. 9. A system as in claim 1 wherein the specimen delivery system comprises: (a) culture holding means for holding a culture medium container with culture medium present therein at a predetermined inoculation position; (b) specimen container positioning means for positioning the specimen container at a specimen extraction station; (c) a specimen applicator for extracting a specimen sample from said specimen container, and (d) specimen transfer means for moving said specimen applicator to said culture medium and for depositing the specimen sample at the deposit location. 10. A system as claimed in claim 9, including means for locating the position of the specimen applicator in space upon its removal from a specimen holder. 11. A system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the specimen container carries specimen indicia data and said system comprises an indicia reader for reading data on said container. 12. A system as claimed in claim 9 wherein said specimen containers comprise swab containers, each having an elongate tubular receptacle, a cap with a stem extending from said cap into said receptacle, and a specimen sample holding swab positioned at the end of said stem remote from said cap, said specimen transfer means comprising a controlled gripping member for gripping and removing said cap from said receptacle and for moving said swab to position it at said deposit location on said culture medium. 13. A system as claimed in claim 12, including means for viewing said swab after removal from said receptacle and producing swab position data for the location of said swab with respect to said cap for use by the specimen transfer means in subsequently positioning the swab at the deposit location in accordance with said swab position data. 14. A system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said specimen transfer means comprises means to replace said swab in said tubular receptacle without contacting the swab against the exterior surface of the receptacle. 15. A system as claimed in claim 12, including straightening means for engaging with said stem after removal from said receptacle, to straighten any distortion in said stem. 16. A system as claimed in claim 12, said gripping member including means for rotating said stem to rotate said swab in contact with said culture medium and for moving an axis of rotation of said stem to offset distortion of the stem. 17. A system as claimed in claim 9, said specimen container comprising a container having a jar receptacle and a separate cap, said specimen applicator comprising a controlled gripping member and a pipette grasped by said gripping member, and said specimen transfer means further comprising control means for (a) moving said gripping member and pipette over said specimen holder to retrieve a specimen sample; (b) moving said gripping member and pipette over a culture medium container; and (c) depositing said specimen sample onto said culture medium at said deposit location. 18. A system as claimed in claim 12, said cap being a screw cap for threaded attachment to said jar receptacle, said system including means for rotating said cap relative to said receptacle at a cap removal station for removal of said cap. 19. A system as claimed in claim 18, wherein said jar receptacle carries specimen data and further including transfer means for transporting said jar receptacle through a data reading station including data reading means for reading said specimen data on aid jar receptacle at said data reading station, said means for moving said streaking tool during streaking being governed by said specimen data. 20. A system as claimed in claim 9, including means for positioning swab holders and jar holders, said specimen transfer means being adapted to remove said sample from either of said holders. 21. A method of automated deposition of a specimen sample on a culture medium, comprising: (a) providing a culture medium container delivery system and controllably delivering a culture medium container with culture medium present therein to a predetermined position constituting a streaking station; (b) providing a specimen container delivery system and controllably delivering a specimen container with a biological specimen contained therein to a specimen retrieval station; (c) providing a specimen transfer mechanism and controllably moving said specimen transfer mechanism to remove a specimen sample from a specimen container at the specimen retrieval station, convey the specimen sample to the streaking station and deposit said speciment sample onto the surface of the culture medium in said culture medium container at a deposit location on said surface of said culture medium; (d) recording the deposit location of the specimen sample on said surface of said culture medium in a memory as location data, and (e) providing a streaking tool and controllably moving said streaking tool, using the recorded location data to guide the streaking tool to the specimen sample, to move said streaking tool in a predetermined streaking pattern over said surface of said culture medium. 22. A method as claimed in claim 21, said specimen container comprising a swab container having an elongate tubular receptacle, a cap, a stem extending into said receptacle from the cap, and a swab positioned at the end of the stem, the swab holding the biological specimen sample, including the steps of: (a) moving said specimen transfer mechanism to grip said cap and remove said stem and said swab to a first position, before position sensing means, viewing said swab; (b) obtaining positional data relating to the spatial position of said swab with respect to said transfer mechanism; and (c) moving said stem and swab to deposit said sample on said surface of said culture medium at said deposit location, in conformity with said positional data. 23. A method as claimed in claim 22, including the further step of controllably moving said transfer mechanism to convey said stem and swab to said receptacle and insert the swab and stem into the receptacle without allowing the swab to contact the outside surface of the receptacle. 24. A method as claimed in claim 21, said specimen container comprising a container having a jar receptacle and a screw cap with liquid specimen present therein, including the steps of: (a) removing said cap at the specimen retrieval station; (b) controllably moving said specimen transfer mechanism to convey a pipette to said specimen container at the specimen retrieval station to retrieve a liquid specimen sample from said receptacle; and (c) moving said specimen transfer mechanism and pipette to deposit said liquid specimen sample onto said surface of said culture medium at said deposit location. 25. A method as claimed in claim 21 including the steps of reading identifying specimen data present on said container, recording said data and effecting a streaking pattern in the culture medium that corresponds to the specimen data. 26. A method as claimed in claim 21, including (a) moving said containers along a conveying system to position said containers sequentially at a viewing station; (b) reading identifying specimen data carried on each of the containers, while the container is present at the viewing station; and (c) conveying said containers sequentially to the specimen retrieval station, and subsequently using the specimen data to define the streaking pattern. 27. An automated culture inoculation system for transferring a sample of a bacterial specimen from specimen containers to a culture medium, followed by streaking of such sample bacteria specimen over said culture medium comprising: (a) a culture medium container delivery system to controllably deliver a culture medium container with culture medium having an exposed surface present therein to a predetermined position constituting a streaking station; (b) a specimen container delivery system to controllably deliver a specimen container with a biological specimen contained therein to a specimen retrieval station; (c) a specimen transfer mechanism positioned to controllably remove a specimen sample from a specimen container at the specimen retrieval station, convey the specimen sample to the streaking station and deposit said specimen sample onto the surface of the culture medium in said culture medium container at a deposit location on the surface of said culture medium; (d) data recording means for recording the deposit location of the specimen sample on said surface of said culture medium in a memory as location data; (e) a streaking tool; and (f) control means for controllably moving said streaking tool, using the recorded location data, to guide the streaking tool to engage with the specimen sample present on the surface of said culture medium, and move said streaking tool in a predetermined streaking pattern over said surface of said culture medium. 