The present invention provides methods of preparing large polynucleotides of arbitrary sequence and in a manner that will readily lend itself to automation. The present invention provides methods of preparing a polynucleotide having at least 200 nucleotides in either a 5' to 3' or 3' to 5' direction by ligating a plurality of oligonucleotides, the assembly of which, represents the nucleotide sequence of the desired polynucleotide. The present invention also provides libraries of polynucleotides and screening of libraries for polynucleotide members having desired properties.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a polynucleotide from a plurality of oligonucleotides, said method comprising: a) blocking the 3' terminus of a first oligonucleotide with a blocking group to form a blocked oligonucleotide, wherein said first oligonucleotide comprises the 3' terminus of said polynucleotide; b) coupling the 3' terminus of a further oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to the 5' terminus of said blocked oligonucleotide to form a coupled oligonucleotide; wherein said coupling is carried out in the presence of an RNA ligase or a ribozyme; c) phosphorylating the 5' terminus of said further oligonucleotide; d) amplifying said coupled oligonucleotide to form an amplified oligonucleotide substantially free of blocking group; and e) repeating steps a) to d) with said amplified oligonucleotide until said polynucleotide is prepared. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of isolating said amplified oligonucleotide prior to said repeating. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said coupling comprises ligating said oligonucleotides with said RNA ligase. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said RNA ligase is T4 RNA ligase or modified T4 RNA ligase. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said coupling comprises the steps of contacting said blocked oligonucleotide with RNA ligase and cosubstrate to form activated oligonucleotide, washing said activated oligonucleotide to form washed oligonucleotide, and contacting said washed oligonucleotide with said further oligonucleotide and RNA ligase. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said RNA ligase is T4 RNA ligase or modified T4 RNA ligase and said cosubstrate is ATP. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said blocking group comprises ddUTP-biotin. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said blocking group comprises solid support. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said solid support is selected from the group consisting of agarose, polyacrylamide, magnetic beads, polystyrene, polyacrylate, controlled-pore glass, hydroxyethylmethacrylate, polyamide, polyethylene, polyethyleneoxy, and polyethyleneoxy/polystyrene copolymer. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said amplifying is carried out using asymmetric PCR. 11. A method of preparing a polynucleotide from a plurality of oligonucleotides, said method comprising: a) blocking the 3' terminus of each of said oligonucleotides, except for an unblocked oligonucleotide comprising the 5' terminus of said polynucleotide, with a blocking group to form a plurality of blocked oligonucleotides; b) phosphorylating the 5' terminus of each of said blocked oligonucleotides; c) coupling the 3' terminus of said unblocked oligonucleotide with the 5' terminus of one of said blocked oligonucleotides, wherein said coupling is carried out in the presence of an RNA ligase or a ribozyme; d) amplifying said coupled oligonucleotides to form an amplified oligonucleotide substantially free of blocking groups; and e) repeating steps c) and d) with said amplified oligonucleotide until said polynucleotide is prepared. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of isolating said amplified oligonucleotide prior to said repeating. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said coupling comprises ligating said oligonucleotides with RNA ligase. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said RNA ligase is T4 RNA ligase or modified T4 RNA ligase. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein said coupling comprises the steps of contacting said blocked oligonucleotide with RNA ligase and cosubstrate to form activated oligonucleotide, washing said activated oligonucleotide to form washed oligonucleotide, and contacting said washed oligonucleotide with said further oligonucleotide and RNA ligase. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said RNA ligase is T4 RNA ligase or modified T4 RNA ligase and said cosubstrate is ATP. 17. The method of claim 11 wherein said blocking group comprises ddUTP-biotin. 18. The method of claim 11 wherein said blocking group comprises solid support. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said solid support is selected from the group consisting of agarose, polyacrylamide, magnetic beads, polystyrene, polyacrylate, controlled-pore glass, hydroxyethylmethacrylate, polyamide, polyethylene, polyethyleneoxy, and polyethyleneoxy/polystyrene copolymer. 20. The method of claim 11 wherein said amplifying is carried out using asymmetric PCR. 21. A method of preparing a library of polynucleotides comprising simultaneously generating a plurality of different polynucleotides, wherein each of said polynucleotides is prepared according to the method of claim 1. 22. A method of preparing a library of polynucleotides comprising simultaneously generating a plurality of different polynucleotides, wherein each of said polynucleotides is prepared according to the method of claim 11. 23. A method of identifying a polynucleotide with a predetermined property, said method comprising generating a library of polynucleotides according to the method of claim 21, and selecting at least one polynucleotide within said library having said predetermined property. 24. A method of identifying a polynucleotide with a predetermined property, said method comprising generating a library of polynucleotides according to the method of claim 22, and selecting at least one polynucleotide within said library having said predetermined property. 25. A method of identifying a polynucleotide with a predetermined property, said method comprising: a) generating a library of polynucleotides according to the method of claim 21; b) selecting at least one polynucleotide within said library having said predetermined property; and c) repeating steps a) and b) wherein at least one oligonucleotide of said selected oligonucleotides is incorporated into a further library. 26. A method of identifying a polynucleotide with a predetermined property, said method comprising: a) generating a library of polynucleotides according to the method of claim 22; b) selecting at least one polynucleotide within said library having said predetermined property; and c) repeating steps a) and b) wherein at least one oligonucleotide of said selected oligonucleotides is incorporated into a further library. 