A method for loading substrates in a processing system is provided. In one embodiment, a method for loading substrates utilizes a substrate loader that generally includes a wall having an exterior side with one or more apertures formed therethrough and a related method of loading a processing system. A door assembly is movably coupled to the wall in each of the apertures and is adapted to temporarily retain the substrate. A first portion of the door assembly substantially closes the aperture when the door assembly is in a first or closed position, and a second portion of the door assembly substantially closes the aperture when the door assembly is in a second or open position. A robot for transferring a substrate in a processing system is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for loading a processing system, comprising the steps of: placing a substrate storage cassette on a first portion of a door assembly disposed outside of a factory interface; positioning a second portion of the door assembly to close a passage into the factory interface, wherein the second portion is fixedly coupled to the first portion; and moving the door assembly to move the second portion away from the passage and move the substrate storage cassette through the passage while dosing the passage into the factory interface behind the substrate storage cassette. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of moving the door assembly to insert the substrate storage cassette into the factory interface further comprises: closing an aperture of the factory interface through which the substrate storage cassette is moved. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of moving the door assembly further comprises rotating the first portion of the door assembly between a horizontal position and a vertical position. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of placing the substrate storage cassette on a portion of a door assembly further comprises closing an aperture of the factory interface through which the substrate storage cassette is moved. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of moving the first portion of the door assembly to move the substrate storage cassette into the factory interface further comprises; changing an orientation of substrates within the substrate storage cassette between vertical and horizontal. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of moving the door assembly to move the substrate storage cassette through the passage while closing the passage further comprises rotating substrates retained in the substrate storage cassette about an axis parallel to a centerline of the substrates. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising spraying substrates retained in the substrate storage cassette with a fluid. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising sensing edges of substrates retained in the substrate storage cassette. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of moving further comprises rotating the door assembly. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of moving further comprises the moving the portion of the door assembly on which the substrate storage cassette was placed into the factory interface. 11. A method for loading a processing system, comprising the steps of: queuing a first substrate storage cassette on a first door assembly having a first portion fixedly coupled to a second portion; positioning the second portion to close a first aperture in a factory interface; displacing the second portion to open the first aperture; transferring the first substrate storage cassette into the factory interface through the first aperture: and closing the first aperture with the first portion. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of transferring the first substrate storage cassette into the factory interface changes the orientation of substrates within the first substrate storage cassette between vertical and horizontal. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the stop of transferring the first substrate storage cassette into the factory interface further comprises rotating the first portion and the second portion about a common axis. 14. The method of claim 11 further comprising: queuing a second substrate storage cassette on a second door assembly having a first portion coupled to a second portion, the second portion closing a second aperture formed in the factory interface adjacent the first aperture; displacing the second portion of the second door assembly to open the second aperture; transferring the second substrate storage cassette into the factory interface through the second aperture; and closing the second aperture with the first portion of the second door assembly. 15. The method of claim 11 further comprising spraying substrates withint he substrate storage cassette with a fluid. 16. The method of claim 11 further comprising detecting edges of substrates extending from the substrate storage cassette. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of displacing the second flange to open the first aperture further comprises rotating the door assembly. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of rotating the door assembly further comprises rotating the door assembly about a vertical axis. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of rotating the door assembly further comprises rotating the door assembly about a horizontal axis. 20. A method for loading a processing system, comprising the steps of: providing a first substrate cassette supported by a first portion of a door assembly in a position where substrates contained in the first substrate cassette may be accessed by a robot that transfers the substrates from a factory interface to a processing area for processing; moving the first portion of the door assembly to a position where the first substrate cassette may not be accessed by the robot; closing a passage to the factory interface with the first portion of the door assembly; replacing the first substrate cassette with a second substrate cassette supported on a second portion of the door assembly, which is fixedly coupled to the first portion and disposed outside of the factory interface, while the system continues to process other substrates; and returning the first portion of the door assembly to the position where the second substrate cassette may be accessed by the robot. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of moving the first portion of the door assembly further comprises; moving the first substrate storage cassette through the passage. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of moving the first substrate storage cassette rotates the first substrate storage cassette about an axis parallel to a centerline of the first substrate storage cassette. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of moving the first substrate storage cassette rotates the first substrate storage cassette about an axis perpendicular to a centerline of the substrate storage cassette. 24. The method of claim 20 further comprising spraying substrates retained in the substrate storage cassette with a fluid. 25. The method of claim 20 further comprising sensing edges of substrates retained in the substrate storage cassette. 