An apparatus for processing a microelectronic workpiece in a micro-environment is set forth. The apparatus includes a first chamber member having an interior chamber wall and a second chamber member having an interior chamber wall. The first and second chamber members are adapted for relative movement between a loading position in which the first and second chamber members are distal one another and a processing position in which the first and second chamber members are proximate one another to define a processing chamber. At least one workpiece support assembly is disposed between the first and second chamber members for supporting the microelectronic workpiece. The workpiece support assembly is operable to space the workpiece a first distance, x1, from an interior chamber wall of at least one of the first and second chamber members when the first and second chamber members are in the loading position and to space the workpiece a second distance, x2, from the interior chamber wall when the first and second chamber members are in the processing position, wherein x1>x2.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a first chamber member having an interior first chamber member wall; a second chamber member having an interior second chamber member wall, with the second chamber member moveable relative to the first chamber member from a loading position in which the first and second chamber members are spaced apart from each other, to a processing position where the first and second chamber members are engaged to each other; at least one workpiece support on the first chamber member supporting the workpiece at a first distance from the interior first chamber member wall, when the second chamber member is in the loading position, and supporting the workpiece at a second distance from the interior first chamber member wall, when the second chamber member is in the processing position, with the first distance greater than the second distance. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the workpiece support comprises: a plurality of support members, each having a biasing member urging the support member to space the workpiece at the first distance from the interior first chamber wall when the second chamber members is in the loading position, and with relative movement between the first and second chamber members urging substantially each support member against a spring force to move each support member to space the workpiece at the second distance from the first interior chamber wall, when the second chamber member is in the processing position. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein first and second chamber members move linearly relative to each other. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the biasing member comprises at least one leaf spring. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising: a first fluid inlet in the first interior chamber wall for delivering a first processing fluid onto a first side of the workpiece, and a second fluid inlet in the second interior chamber wall for delivering a second fluid onto a second side of the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 and further comprising: at least one fluid inlet in at least one of the first and second interior chamber walls for delivering processing fluid onto the workpiece. 7. An apparatus for processing a workpiece, comprising: an upper chamber member; a lower chamber member; the upper chamber member and the lower chamber member relatively movable from a loading position, where the upper and lower chamber members are spaced apart, to a processing position, where the upper and lower chamber members both engage the workpiece, to prevent movement of the workpiece relative to the upper and lower chamber members; at least one fluid inlet in at least one of the upper and lower interior chamber walls; a workpiece support assembly on the lower chamber member, the workpiece support assembly having a plurality of workpiece support members engaging peripheral workpiece edges of the workpiece and holding the workpiece at a first distance from the lower interior chamber member when the upper and lower chamber members are in the loading position, and holding the workpiece at a second distance, less than the first distance, from the lower interior chamber member when the upper and lower chamber members are in the processing position. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the workpiece support members support the workpiece in a position to allow distribution of a fluid supplied through the at least one processing fluid inlet across at least one face of the workpiece via centrifugal force. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the at least one fluid inlet extends through the upper interior chamber wall, to deliver processing fluid to substantially an entire upper surface of the workpiece, the apparatus further comprising a second processing fluid inlet extending through the lower interior chamber wall to deliver fluid to substantially an entire a lower surface of the workpiece. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the workpiece support assembly further comprises a biasing member engaging the workpiece support members, the biasing member constantly urging the workpiece support members away from the lower chamber member and with movement of the upper chamber members towards the lower chamber member urging the workpiece support members downwardly, against the bias of the biasing member. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the plurality of workpiece support members each have an upstanding portion and a support surface; with a biasing member engaging the upstanding portions of the plurality of workpiece support members, the biasing member urging the workpiece support members to space the workpiece at a first distance from the lower chamber member when the upper and lower chamber members are in the loading position and with movement of the upper chamber member towards the lower chamber member urging the workpiece support members against the bias of the biasing member, to move the workpiece support members so that they support the workpiece at a second distance from the lower chamber member, when the upper and lower chamber members are in the processing position. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the biasing member comprises a plurality of leaf spring members extending from a central hub, with end portions of the leaf spring members contacting respective upstanding members of the workpiece support members. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the plurality of workpiece support members extend through the lower chamber member and wherein the biasing member is secured to a central location of the lower chamber member. 14. The machine of claim 7 wherein the upper chamber member includes an upper interior wall and the lower chamber member includes a lower interior wall parallel to the upper interior wall. 15. The machine of claim 14 further including a plurality of top spacing members on the upper interior wall. 