A fractionated sample collection process and device having at least one pressurized chamber used to gather and store liquid samples generated from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid, or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid. A bank of multiple collection chambers is secured together in a frame to form a cassette unit. Each collection chamber may house a replaceable liner such as a test tube vial, to hold a fractionated liquid phase sample. After filling with sample, a collection chamber is returned to a clean state and ready for refilling with a new sample by manually or automatically replacing the liner.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising the steps of: at least one collection chamber having at least one opening; a support frame; a removable lid for said collection chamber having at least one aperture through said lid corresponding to an opening of said collection chamber; at least an inlet and an outlet flow stream path from said collection chamber, said flow stream paths are transfer tubes comprising an inlet tube carrying said biphase fluid into said collection chamber and an outlet tube carrying a waste stream out of said collection chamber; said support frame secured to said collection chamber, said lid attached to said support frame and covering said collection chamber opening. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said collection chamber is a hollow cylinder secured upright in said support frame, the base of said collection chamber having a sample discharge port, and the top of said chamber having an opening secured in said support frame. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one removable collection liner housed inside of said collection chamber. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of said collection chambers commonly secured within said support frame, thereby forming a cassette bank of said collection containers. 5. An apparatus to collect liquid samples from a biphasic flow stream, comprising: at least one collection chamber with an opening at the top end; a frame; a moveable lid; a plurality of phase transfer points through apertures in said lid corresponding to said open end of said collection chamber; a sample discharge port in said collection chamber; transfer tubes comprising an inlet tube carrying said biphase fluid into said collection chamber and an outlet tube carrying gaseous phase out of said collection chamber; each said collection chamber secured into said frame and said lid covering said collection chamber removably secured to said frame. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising: at least one removable collection liner housed inside of said collection chamber. 7. An apparatus according to claim 5, wherein: a plurality of said collection chambers commonly secured with said support frame and said lid, thereby forming a cassette bank of said collection containers. 8. An apparatus collecting samples from a biphasic flow stream, comprising: at least one collection chamber open at one end; at least one removable collection liner housed inside of said collection chamber; a support frame; a moveable lid covering said collection chamber, said lid having apertures through said lid corresponding to the open end of said collection chamber; a sample discharge port through a wall of said collection chamber for removing liquid phase from said chamber; transfer tubes comprising an inlet tube carrying said biphase fluid into said collection chamber and an outlet tube carrying gaseous phase out of said collection chamber; said support frame securing said collection chamber in an upright position. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein: said collection chamber is cylinder formed from high strength transparent material. 10. An apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising: a plurality of said collection chambers commonly secured with said support frame and said lid, thereby forming a cassette bank of said collection containers. 11. An apparatus collecting samples from a biphasic flow stream, comprising: a plurality of collection chambers, having at least one opening to each said chamber; a chamber liner for each said chamber; a support frame securing said collection chambers into a cassette bank; at least one actuator connected to said cassette; a moveable lid covering said collection chamber; at least one actuator connected to said moveable lid; said lid having apertures through corresponding to said opening of said collection chambers; a programmable robotic arm; said actuator engages said moveable lid to said frame thereby covering said chambers; said robotic arm exchanges chamber liners within said collection chambers of said cassette. 