A plurality of robots are positioned on a rotatable table for transporting parts to be processed through a plurality of work stations positioned around the periphery of the table. Each robot can carry a workpiece from one work station to the next. The rotation of the table moves the robot from one workstation to the next while carrying a part to be processed. Each robot can be independently movable relative to the other robots and each robot can be independently movable relative to the table. Each robot can include a welder for processing the workpiece independent of the workstation or during movement between work stations. Each robot can carry a plurality of differently configured workpieces between the work stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for moving a workpiece along an assembly line having a plurality of workstations, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of robots mounted for movement along a fixed path between workstations, each robot for manipulating at least one workpiece; and a rotatable turntable supporting the plurality of robots for simultaneous movement between the plurality of workstations. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one workstation further comprises: at least one fixture for retaining each one of a plurality of different configurations of workpiece to be moved through the assembly line. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of robots further comprises: means for delivering the workpiece to a fixture located at one of the plurality of workstations. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: interchangeable means for manipulating a plurality of different configurations of workpieces. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: at least one welder mounted in fixed relation with respect to each robot for movement along the fixed path, each welder for performing a welding operation on the workpiece while being manipulated by the corresponding robot between delivery to successive workstations. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of robots are evenly spaced from each other. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a number of robots mounted along the fixed path is equal to a number of workstations positioned adjacent to the fixed path. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of robots further comprises: means for manipulating the workpiece relative to the rotatable turntable. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of robots further comprises: means for manipulating the workpiece relative to at least one other robot, the other robot mounted along the fixed path and associated with at least one of the plurality of workstations. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a single movable platform supporting the plurality of robots for movement along the fixed path between workstations. 11. A method for moving a workpiece along an assembly line having a plurality of workstations, the method comprising the steps of: manipulating each workpiece to be processed with one of a plurality of robots, each robot mounted for movement along a fixed path between workstations; and supporting the plurality of robots on a rotatable turntable for simultaneous movement between the plurality of workstations. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: performing at least one welding operation on each workpiece while the workpiece is being manipulated by the corresponding robot moving the workpiece along the assembly line between successive workstations. 13. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: performing at least one welding operation on each workpiece while the robots are moving along the fixed path. 14. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: interchanging manipulating means for manipulating a second workpiece having a different configuration. 15. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: positioning at least one fixture for retaining each one of a plurality of different configurations of workpiece to be moved through the assembly line at a workstation. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the manipulating step further comprises the step of: manipulating the workpiece relative to the rotatable turntable. 17. The method of claim 11 wherein the manipulating step further comprises the step of: manipulating the workpiece relative to at least one other robot, the other robot mounted along the fixed path and associated with at least one of the plurality of workstations. 18. The method of claim 11 further comprising the step of: supporting the plurality of robots for movement along the fixed path between workstations on a single movable platform. 