A method is provided for marking items by orienting the items so that ink may be printed on the desired area of the items. The items are fed to a printing station and ink of a first color is printed on the items and then dried. The ink is then cured by providing heat to the ink. Also provided is an apparatus for marking differently-shaped items comprising a printing station having an ink printer and a dryer. The apparatus also has a curing tunnel for curing the ink onto the items.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of marking an item comprising the steps of: (a) providing a copper pipe fitting having an area thereon to be printed; (b) orienting said copper pipe fitting in a position so that ink may be printed on the said desired area of said item; (c) motivating said copper pipe fitting to a printing station; (d) printing an ink of a first color on said copper pipe fitting while said copper pipe fitting is at said printing station; (e) drying said ink of a first color while on said printing station; and (f) curing said ink by providing heat to said ink. 2. An apparatus for marking differently shaped items comprising: a printing station comprising: a first inking printer for transferring an ink of a first color to an item; a first dryer for drying said ink of a first color on the item to be marked and adjacent said first inking printer; a second inking printer for transferring an ink of a second color to the item and adjacent said first dryer, wherein said printing station is adapted so that said ink of a first color and said ink of a second color can be combined to form a bar code; and a second dryer for drying said ink of a second color on the item to be marked and adjacent said second inking printer; a curing tunnel that provides heat to the item to cure both said ink of a first color and said ink of a second color to provide added adherence of said inks to the item; and a verification system for verifying that a bar code is useable. 3. An apparatus for marking differently shaped items comprising: a printing station comprising: a first inking printer for transferring an ink of a first color to an item; a first dryer for drying said ink of a first color on the item to be marked and adjacent said first inking printer; a second inking printer for transferring an ink of a second color to the item and adjacent said first dryer, wherein said printing station is adapted so that said ink of a first color and said ink of a second color can be combined to form a bar code; and a second dryer for drying said ink of a second color on the item to be marked and adjacent said second inking printer; a curing tunnel that provides heat to the item to cure both said ink of a first color and said ink of a second color to provide added adherence of said inks to the item; a verification system for verifying that a bar code is useable; and a rejecter for unloading items without an acceptable bar code. 