A system for acquiring knowledge from cellular information. The system has a database comprising a database management module ("DBMS"). The system also has a variety of modules, including a population module coupled to the DBMS for categorizing and storing a plurality of features (e.g., cell size, distance between cells, cell population, cell type) from an image acquisition device into the database. The system has a translation module coupled to the DBMS for defining a descriptor from a set of selected features from the plurality of features. In a specific embodiment, the descriptor is for a known or unknown compound, e.g., drug. A prediction module is coupled to the DBMS for selecting one of a plurality of a descriptors from known and unknown compounds from the database based upon a selected descriptor from a selected compound. The selected compound may be one that is useful for treatment of human beings or the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automatically capturing images of cells or cell structures from multiple cell holders, each comprising a plurality of sites in a spatial orientation, each of the sites being capable of holding a plurality of cells to be imaged, the system comprising: an image capturing device coupled to the cell holder, the image capturing device being adapted to capture a plurality of images from at least one of the plurality of sites, a site at a time; an illumination apparatus comprising a liquid light guide coupled to the cell holder for highlighting at least a one of the plurality of cells in a relatively even spatial manner for image capturing purposes; a robot arm for automatically collecting multiple of said cell holders to facilitate capture of the images of the cells or cell structures from said multiple cell holders; a computing device connected to a database storage device and the image capturing device, the database storage device storing the images and enabling the generation of a montage of image; and software that analyzes the images and characterizing features of the cells or cell structures in the images. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage for moving the cell holder with respect to the image capturing device. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the illumination apparatus comprises sub-elements, at least one of the sub-elements being positioned away from the image capturing device to reduce a possibility of vibration from the at least one sub-element being transmitted to the image capturing device. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein each image comprises a plurality of regions and objects. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the image capturing device provides a magnification of at least about 1.times. to capture the image of the site. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a filter wheel having a plurality of filters, each filtering for a different color. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the liquid light guide is characterized as a flexible member that substantially prevents vibration from an element of the illumination apparatus to be transferred to the image capturing device. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising software that controls operation of the image capturing device. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising software for creating and sequentially naming files of the images. 10. A method of automatically capturing and analyzing images of cells or cell structures from multiple cell holders, each comprising a plurality of sites in a spatial orientation, each of the sites being capable of holding a plurality of cells to be imaged, the method comprising: retrieving a first cell holder with a robot arm; illuminating at least a portion of the first cell holder in a relatively even spatial manner for image capturing purposes, wherein light is provided to the first cell holder via a liquid light guide; capturing a plurality of images of the cells or cell structures in an illuminated region of the first cell holder, a site at a time; storing the images in a database, wherein the generation of a montage of images is enabled; and analyzing the images and characterizing features of the cells or cell structures in the images. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising performing an automatic focus prior to capturing the image. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising creating and sequentially naming files of the images of cells or cell structures. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising selecting a filter and using said filter to filter light provided via the liquid light guide. 