An apparatus for palletizing substantially cylindrical objects. The apparatus comprises at least one position-defining support device for at least one pallet, a supply of the cylindrical objects for palletizing, at least one holder for a roll of material intended for arrangement between the palletized objects and a handling device for removing the cylindrical objects from the supply and placing them on the pallet. The apparatus also comprises at least two support members each arranged on a side of a base of the position-defining support device. The handling device is adapted to removably place the at least one holder for the roll of material on different support devices after a number of objects for palletizing have been placed on the pallet. A method comprises placing onto a pallet the strip of paper or foil unwound from the at least one holder; subsequently placing a number of cylindrical objects on this strip of paper using the handling device, whereafter the holder for the material can be moved from a first position-defining support device to a second position-defining support device arranged on an opposite side of the pallet by the handling device. It is then possible to continue with the arranging of the cylindrical objects until the holder is displaced again by the handling device in the direction of the first position-defining support device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for palletizing substantially cylindrical objects, said apparatus comprising: at least one pallet positioning member including at least two supports for being placed proximate a pallet; at least one holder device comprising at least one support for a roll of material, the material intended for being arranged between the palletized cylindrical objects and for cooperating with the cylindrical objects when positioned on the pallet to prevent the cylindrical objects from separating from the pallet, wherein each said support of said at least one pallet positioning member is arranged at opposed sides of the at least one holder device; and a handling device moveable relative to the pallet, said handling device being of positioning the substantially cylindrical objects on the pallet and engaging and moving said at least one holder device relative to the pallet, wherein the handling device place the at least one holder device for a roll of material on another support device once a number of the cylindrical objects for palletizing have been placed on the pallet. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising a roll of paper; and wherein the paper has a width that is smaller than or equal to half the length of the cylindrical objects when the cylindrical objects are positioned on the pallet. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the apparatus is adapted to position the cylindrical objects in at least two adjacent rows on the pallet. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the handling device is moveable relative to the at least one holder device and capable of positioning the at least one holder device on said another support device after placing at least one cylindrical object on the pallet. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the handling device is adapted to position the cylindrical objects in layers on the pallet. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the handling device is capable of receiving and positioning the cylindrical objects, and wherein the cylindrical objects include can lids. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one holder device comprises a plurality of trays and that the handling device is adapted to place one of said trays on the pallet after at least one layer of cylindrical objects is positioned on the pallet. 8. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the apparatus is adapted to position the cylindrical objects in at least two adjacent rows on the pallet. 9. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the handling device is moveable relative to the at least one holder device and capable of positioning the at least one holder device on said another support device after placing at least one cylindrical object on the pallet. 10. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the handling device is moveable relative to the at least one holder device and capable of positioning the at least one holder device to place on said another support device after placing at least one cylindrical object on the pallet. 11. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the apparatus is adapted for layer-wise placement of the objects. 12. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the handling device is capable of receiving and positioning the cylindrical objects, and wherein the cylindrical objects include can lids. 13. An apparatus for palletizing substantially cylindrical objects, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of support devices for being positioned proximate a pallet on which said cylindrical objects can be positioned; at least one holder comprising at least one support for carrying a material that is intended to be arranged between the palletized cylindrical objects, said at least one holder being supported by at least one of said plurality of support devices; and a handling device that is movable relative to said support devices and said at least one holder, said handling device positioning the substantially cylindrical objects on the pallet and engaging and moving said at least one holder relative to the pallet and onto another of the support devices once a number of the cylindrical objects for palletizing have been placed on the pallet. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein each said support device has a plurality of support members for receiving a respective end of the at least one holder. 15. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the handling device is secured to a movable robotic arm. 16. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the handling device includes members for contacting and moving said at least one holder after at least one of the cylindrical objects is positioned on the pallet. 17. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein a first of said support devices is spaced from a second of said support devices by a distance that permits a pallet to be received between said first and second support devices. 18. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said at least one holder includes an axial shaft for a roll of material. 19. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said at least one holder includes a tray for positioning on the pallet. 