A recoil mitigation device is provided for a projectile-firing device, such as an explosives disrupter, in which a brake is attached to a barrel of the projectile-firing device and the projectile-firing device/brake combination is positioned coaxially within a tube, the tube secured to a frame or other suitable foundation. The brake includes two or more brake shoes positioned within an annular free space defined by the outer surface of the barrel and the inner surface of the tube and adapted to frictionally contact the inner surface of the tube. An apparatus is attached to the barrel for limiting the lateral movement of the brake shoes and there is an apparatus for urging the brake shoes in an outward radial direction against the inner surface of the tube, whereby when a projectile is fired from the barrel, the brake mitigates the recoil of the projectile-firing device.
Claims We claim: 1. A recoil-mitigated projectile-firing device, the projectile-firing device comprising: an elongated tube; a barrel adapted for firing a projectile, the barrel positioned coaxially within the tube; and a brake attached to the barrel, the brake comprising: two or more brake shoes, each shoe adapted to frictionally contact the inner surface of the tube and adapted to be positioned in a free space defined by the outer surface of the barrel and the inner surface of the tube; means attached to the barrel for limiting the lateral movement of the brake shoes relative to the barrel; and means for urging the brake shoes in an outward radial direction, the brake interposed between the barrel and the inner surface of the tube, the brake further in frictional contact with the inner surface of the tube, whereby when the projectile is fired from the barrel, the brake mitigates the recoil of the device. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the elongated tube is attached to a frame. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the limiting means is a first and a second detent lying in a facing, spaced-apart relationship. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the limiting means is a first and a second flange lying in a facing, spaced-apart relationship. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the limiting means comprises a clamp attached coaxially to the outside of the barrel, the clamp formed to include a detent at each end. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the limiting means comprises a clamp attached coaxially to the outside of the barrel, the clamp formed to include a flange at each end. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the tube is substantially cylindroid. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the brake shoes are each substantially C-shaped and substantially cylindroid, the brake shoes formed to include a first and a second land running parallel to the long axis of each brake shoe along each lateral edge of the C, each land formed to include at least one cavity, whereby each cavity faces the at least one cavity in an opposing land of an adjacent shoe. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the urging means comprises a coil spring interposed between each pair of opposing lands, the springs being partially positioned within the opposing cavities of adjacent lands. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the inner surface of the tube in frictional contact with the brake immediately prior to firing is a low-friction material. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the low-friction material is polypropylene. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the guide tube is a pair of semi-cylindroids. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein the pair of semi-cylindroids is hinged together along one lateral side. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the pair of semi-cylindroids further comprises at least one means for holding the semi-cylindriods together, whereby a cylindrical tube is formed. 15. The device of claim 1, further including one or more washer inserts positioned in a portion of the free space between the barrel and the inner surface of the tube, whereby the barrel is supported within the tube. 16. The device of claim 1, wherein the brake shoes comprise a friction material attached to the surface thereof. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the tube comprises a friction material attached to the inner surface thereof. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein the number of brake shoes is two and wherein the brake shoes are rotatably connected together. 19. A recoil mitigation apparatus for a projectile-firing device, the projectile-firing device comprising a barrel for housing a projectile, the recoil mitigation apparatus comprising: an elongated tube attached to a frame; a brake comprising: a substantially cylindrical clamp adapted to be attached coaxially to the outside of the barrel, the clamp formed to include a flange at each end; two or more substantially C-shaped substantially cylindroid brake shoes, the inner concave surface of each shoe adapted to mate with a respective arcuate portion of the outer convex surface of the clamp, and wherein each shoe is sized to lie between the flanges, each brake shoe having a first and a second land, each land running parallel to the long axis of the shoe along lateral edges of the C, and wherein each land is formed to include at least one cavity; and two or more urging means, each urging means having a first end and a second end, each end of each urging means formed to partially engage within a cavity; and wherein when the clamp is secured to the outside of the barrel, each shoe mated with the outer convex surface of the barrel and positioned between the flanges, the brake shoes urged apart by the urging means positioned within opposing cavities, and when the barrel, clamp, brake shoes, and springs assembly is fit coaxially frictionally within the tube, when the projectile is fired from the barrel, the recoil of the device is mitigated. 20. A recoil-mitigated projectile-firing device, the projectile-firing device comprising: an elongated tube attached to a frame; a barrel adapted for housing and firing a projectile the barrel positioned coaxially within the tube; a substantially cylindrical clamp positioned between the tube and the barrel, the clamp attached coaxially to the outside of the barrel, the clamp formed to include a flange at each end; two or more substantially C-shaped substantially cylindroid brake shoes interposed between the clamp and the tube, each shoe having a first and a second land running parallel to the long axis of the shoe along each lateral edge of the C, each land formed to include at least one cavity, the inner concave surface of each brake shoe mated with a respective arcuate portion of the outer convex surface of the clamp and positioned between the flanges, whereby the at least one cavity in each land faces the at least one cavity in a land of the opposing shoe; and an urging means, having a first end and a second end, positioned between each land of each opposing shoe, the first end positioned within the at least one cavity of one land and the second end positioned within the at least one cavity of the land of the opposing shoe, whereby the shoes are urged in an outward radial direction against the inner surface of the tube, whereby when a projectile is fired from the barrel, the friction created between the shoes and the tube mitigates the recoil of the device. 21. A recoil mitigation apparatus for a projectile-firing device, the projectile-firing device comprising a barrel for housing a projectile, the recoil mitigation apparatus comprising: an elongated tube attached to a frame; a brake comprising: first and second substantially semi-cylindrical clamp elements, each clamp element adapted to be attached coaxially to the outside of the barrel, each clamp element formed to include a flange at each end, the first and second clamp elements positioned on opposite sides of the barrel in a face-to-fact relationship, the clamp elements secured together with securing means, whereby the clamp is securely attached to the barrel; first and second substantially semi-cylindrical brake shoes sized to lie between the flanges, each shoe comprising and inner surface adapted to mate with a respective arcuate portion of the outer convex surface of the clamp, a first and a second land, each land running parallel to the long axis of the shoe along the lateral edges of the semi-cylinder, the first and second shoes positioned on opposite sides of the clamp in a face-to-face relationship, the shoes being restricted in the lateral direction by the flanges and the shoes being urged apart in an outward radial direction by urging means; and the barrel and brake combination further positioned within the tube, whereby urging means urge the shoes against the inner convex surface of the tube, and whereby when a projectile is fired from the barrel, the friction created between the shoes and the tube mitigates the recoil of the device. 22. A brake for mitigating the recoil of a projectile-firing device having a barrel, the barrel positioned coaxially within a tube, the brake comprising: two or more brake shoes adapted to frictionally contact the inner surface of the tube and adapted to be positioned in the annular space between the outer surface of the barrel and the inner surface of the tube; means adapted to attach to the barrel for limiting the lateral movement of the brake shoes relative to the barrel; and means for urging the brake shoes in an outward radial direction when the barrel is positioned within the tube, whereby the brake shoes frictionally contact the tube. 23. A brake for mitigating the recoil of a projectile-firing device having a barrel, the barrel positioned coaxially within a tube, the brake comprising: two or more brake shoes adapted to frictionally contact the outer surface of the barrel and adapted to be positioned in the annular space between the inner surface of the tube and the outer surface of the barrel; means adapted to attach to the tube for limiting the lateral movement of the brake shoes relative to the tube; and means for urging the brake shoes in an inward radial direction when the barrel is positioned within the tube, whereby the brake shoes frictionally contact the barrel, and wherein when the device is fired, a force-time profile of the recoil is substantially constant. 24. A method for firing a projectile with mitigated recoil, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing an elongated tube; (b) providing a projectile-firing device, the projectile-firing device comprising a barrel, having a breech attached thereto, adapted for firing a projectile; (c) attaching a brake to the barrel; (d) positioning the barrel coaxially within the tube, wherein the brake makes frictional contact with the inner surface of the tube (e) firing the projectile from the barrel, whereby the brake mitigates the recoil. 25. A method for firing a projectile with mitigated recoil, the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a projectile-firing device, the projectile-firing device comprising a barrel for housing a projectile; (b) attaching a substantially cylindrical clamp to the outer convex surface of the barrel, the clamp formed to include a first flange at one end and a second flange at the other end; (c) positioning first and second substantially semi-cylindrical brake shoes along opposite sides of the clamp and between the first flange and the second flange, whereby the flanges restrain the shoes in the lateral direction; (d) providing means for urging the shoes apart in an outward radial direction; (e) pressing the shoes together, whereby the urging means become compressed; (f) inserting the projectile-firing device, clamp, shoes, urging means combination into an elongated tube attached to a support frame; and (g) firing the projectile from the barrel, whereby the friction between the shoes and the tube mitigates the recoil. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising the step of selecting urging means according to the projectile to be fired and the recoil mitigation desired. 27. A kit for mitigating the recoil of a projectile-firing device, the projectile-firing device comprising a barrel, the kit comprising: an elongated tube; a clamp adapted to be attached to the barrel, the clamp comprising a flange at each end; a pair of brake shoes, a first surface of each brake shoe adapted to conform to the inner surface of the tube and a second surface of each brake shoe adapted to substantially conform to the outer surface of the clamp, each brake shoe sized to lie between the flanges; and a selection of urging means adapted to be interposed between the brake shoes, whereby the brake shoes may be urged in an outward radial direction. 28. The kit of claim 27, further comprising a selection of spacers adapted to be interposed between the brake shoes and the springs, whereby the brake shoes may be urged with more force in an outward radial direction. 29. The brake of claim 23, wherein the urging means comprises a plurality of springs. 30. The brake of claim 29, wherein at least one of the plurality of springs has an axis of compression and the spring axis of compression is substantially orthogonal to a long axis of the tube. 