The present invention provides methods for screening compounds capable of modulating nucleic acid-modifying enzymatic activity, including topoisomerase activity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A high-throughput method of screening compounds capable of modulating topoisomerase activity comprising: (a) incubating at least a first nucleic acid, a topoisomerase and a potential topoisomerase-modulating compound, wherein the nucleic acid comprises at least one tag, and (b) assaying for a nucleic acid religation product. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is DNA. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is RNA. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one tag is a detection tag or an affinity tag. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises incubating at least a first nucleic acid and a second nucleic acid. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second nucleic acid is a religation strand comprising oligonucleotides operatively associated with at least one marker tag. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first nucleic acid is operatively associated with an affinity tag and the second nucleic acid is operatively associated with a detection tag. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the assay detects topoisomerase inhibitors. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the assay detects topoisomerase activators. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the topoisomerase is a Type I or Type III topoisomerase. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the topoisomerase is a Type II or Type IV topoisomerase. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein assaying comprises measuring the level of nucleic acid religation activity in the presence and absence of the topoisomerase-modulating compound. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the level of religation activity is inversely proportional to the effectiveness of the topoisomerase-modulating compound. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) is performed on a solid support. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) is performed in a liquid phase. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid and topoisomerase are covalently complexed, wherein the topoisomerase retains its religation activity. 17. A method to identify a compound that modulates topoisomerase activity comprising: (a) incubating a reaction mixture comprising a substrate nucleic acid, a religation strand, a topoisomerase, and a candidate compound; and (b) assaying for ligation of the substrate nucleic acid and the religation strand. 18. A method to identify a compound that modulates topoisomerase activity comprising: (a) incubating a reaction mixture comprising a substrate nucleic acid, a topoisomerase, and a candidate compound; and (b) assaying for intramolecular ligation of the substrate nucleic acid to form a hairpin, a circular nucleic acid, or a multimer of the substrate nucleic acid. 