A workpiece enclosure system of the present invention includes a workpiece loading section, a laser workstation cell, and a workpiece unloading section. The workpiece loading section includes a materials handling robot arranged to move workpieces from an input conveyor to a light-tight pass-through enclosure in communication with the laser workstation cell. The laser workstation cell includes an additional materials handling robot arranged to move workpieces from the pass-through enclosure to one of two dual headstock/tailstock positioners for laser operations. Preferably, two sets of laser-cutting robots are arranged to perform laser-cutting operations on workpieces held by the headstock/tailstock positioners. The materials handling robot is further arranged to move workpieces from the headstock/tailstock positioners to an additional pass-through enclosure in communication with the workpiece unloading section. The workpiece unloading section includes a final materials handling robot arranged to move workpieces from the additional pass-through enclosure to an output conveyor. It is contemplated that the materials handling robots may be eliminated if a user desires to manually load and unload workpieces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A workpiece enclosure system for use with robotic workstations configured to perform laser operations on workpieces, the workpiece enclosure system comprising: first and second light-tight pass-through enclosures, which are movable to permit the workpieces to pass-through the workpiece enclosure system; a laser workstation cell having a plurality of headstock/tailstock positioners and in communication with the first and second light-tight pass-through enclosures; a first materials handling robot arranged to move the workpieces to the first light-tight pass-through enclosure; a second materials handling robot arranged to move the workpieces from the first light-tight pass-through enclosure to one of the plurality of headstock/tailstock positioners, and arranged to move the workpieces from the headstock/tailstock positioners to the second light-tight pass-through enclosure; and a third materials handling robot arranged to move the workpieces from the second light-tight pass-through enclosure. 2. The workpiece enclosure system as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of head/tailstock positioners is at least a pair of dual headstock.backslash.tailstock positioners. 3. The workpiece enclosure system as recited in claim 1, wherein the first materials handling robot moves the workpieces from an input conveyor to the first light-tight pass-through enclosure. 4. The workpiece enclosure system as recited in claim 1, wherein the third materials handling robot moves the workpieces from the second light-tight enclosure to an output conveyor. 5. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 1, wherein the laser workstation cell further comprises: at least one scrap chute to receive scrap material generated during the laser operations; and at least one scrap conveyor to convey the scrap material to the exterior of the laser workstation cell. 6. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a fourth materials handling robot, wherein the laser workstation cell further comprises at least a pair of end trimming stations, the fourth materials handling robot arranged to receive workpieces from the second materials handling robot and to move the workpieces to one of the end trimming stations and then to the second light-tight pass-through enclosure. 7. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 1, wherein the first and second light-tight pass-through enclosures having a fixture for securing the workpiece and are selected from the group consisting of revolving darkroom doors and transfer cabinets. 8. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 7, wherein the fixture is stationary. 9. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 7, wherein the fixture is rotatable. 10. A workpiece enclosure system for use with robotic workstations configured to perform laser operations on workpieces, the workpiece enclosure system comprising: first and second light-tight pass-through enclosures, which are movable to permit the workpieces to pass-through the workpiece enclosure system; a laser workstation cell having a plurality of headstock/tailstock positioners and in communication with the first and second light-tight pass-through enclosures; and a first materials handling robot arranged to move the workpieces from the first light-tight pass-through enclosure to one of the plurality of headstock/tailstock positioners, and arranged to move the workpieces from the headstock/tailstock positioners to the second light-tight pass-through enclosure. 11. The workpiece enclosure system as recited in claim 10, further comprising a loading zone and a second materials handling robot arranged to move the workpieces from the loading zone to the first light-tight pass-through enclosure. 12. The workpiece enclosure system as recited in claim 10, further comprising a unloading zone and a third materials handling robot arranged to move the workpieces from the second light-tight pass-through enclosure to the unloading zone. 13. The workpiece enclosure system as recited in claim 11, wherein the loading zone is feed by an input conveyor. 14. The workpiece enclosure system as recited in claim 12, wherein the unloading zone feds an output conveyor. 15. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 10, wherein the laser workstation cell further comprises: at least one scrap chute to receive scrap material generated during the laser operations; and at least one scrap conveyor convey the scrap material to the exterior of the laser workstation cell. 16. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 10, further comprising: a second materials handling robot; and at least a pair of end trimming stations provided within the laser workstation cell, wherein the second materials handling robot is arranged to receive workpieces from the first materials handling robot and to move the workpieces to one of the end trimming stations and then to the second light-tight pass-through enclosure. 17. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 10, wherein the first and second light-tight pass-through enclosures having a fixture for securing the workpiece and are selected from the group consisting of revolving darkroom doors and transfer cabinets. 18. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 17, wherein the fixture is stationary. 19. The workpiece enclosure as recited in claim 17, wherein the fixture is rotatable. 20. A laser-cutting system including a workpiece enclosure system comprising: a workpiece loading section; a laser workstation cell having a plurality of robotic laser-cutters; a workpiece unloading section; a first materials handling robot arranged to move workpieces from an input conveyor to a first light-tight pass-through enclosure in communication with the laser workstation cell, wherein the laser workstation cell includes a second materials handling robot arranged to move workpieces from the pass-through enclosure to one of two dual headstock/tailstock positioners for laser culling by the plurality of robotic laser-cutters, and the second materials handling robot is further arranged to move workpieces from the headstock/tailstock positioners to a second pass-through enclosure in communication with the workpiece unloading section; and a third materials handling robot arranged to move workpieces from the second pass-through enclosure to an output conveyor. 