Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for characterizing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising serially injecting four or more non-biological polymer samples into a mobile-phase of a flow-injection analysis system, and detecting a property of the injected samples or of components thereof with a continuous-flow light-scattering detector. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of polymer samples are characterized with an average sample-throughput of not more than about 10 minutes per sample. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of polymer samples are characterized with an average sample-throughput of not more than about 4 minutes per sample. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of polymer samples are characterized with an average sample-throughput of not more than about 1 minute per sample. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein a property of the injected samples or of components thereof is detected using a static light-scattering detector. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein a property of the injected samples or of components thereof is detected using a dynamic light-scattering detector. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein a property of the injected samples or of components thereof is detected using an evaporative light-scattering detector. 8. The method of claim wherein a property of the injected samples is detected using two or more detectors. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer samples are selected from the group consisting of polymer solutions, polymer emulsions and polymer dispersions. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the four or more polymer samples are members of a library of polymerization product mixtures. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the four or more polymer samples comprise a polymer component, a monomer component and a continuous fluid phase. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the four or more polymer samples comprise a copolymer component, a first comonomer component, a second comonomer component and a continuous fluid phase. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising filtering the injected samples before detection. 14. A method for characterizing a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising injecting a first polymer sample into the mobile phase of a flow-injection analysis system at a first injection time, t.sub.FII1, detecting light scattered from the injected first sample or a component thereof in a continuous-flow light-scattering detector, injecting a second polymer sample into the mobile phase of the flow-injection analysis system at a second injection time, t.sub.FII2, and detecting light scattered from the injected second sample or a component thereof in the continuous-flow light-scattering detector. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the flow-injection cycle time, T.sub.FI, delineated by the difference in time, t.sub.FII2 -t.sub.FII1, is not more than about 10 minutes. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the flow-injection cycle time, T.sub.FI, delineated by the difference in time, t.sub.FII2 -t.sub.FII1, is not more than about 4 minutes. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the flow-injection cycle time, T.sub.FI, delineated by the difference in time, t.sub.FII2 -t.sub.FII1, is not more than about 1 minute. 