A controlled relative motion system comprising a base support, a manipulable support, a group of link end constrainers each having a first portion movably connected to a second portion thereof so that ends of the first and second portions can be selectively separated from one another in a selected direction so as to have a selected distance therebetween, and two groups of pivoting links. With at least four link end constrainers in the group thereof, the first group of pivoting links has corresponding links each rotatably coupled to force imparting means or to the base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis where each of said base link axes extend into regions between adjacent ones of said first group of pivoting links into which regions said base link axes of said adjacent ones also extend, and each coupled to a first portion end of a corresponding one of the group of link end constrainers. The second group of pivoting links each rotatably coupled to the manipulable support and a corresponding one of the group of link end constrainers second end. Four or more or less numbers of link end constrainers in the group thereof are useable in the form of straps or interconnected "eye" bolts with corresponding number of pivoting links in the two groups.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to another base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a base support; a manipulable support; a plurality of link end constrainers each provided as a connecting strap so that each has a first portion movably connected to a second portion thereof so that ends of said first and second portions can be variably positioned with respect to one another; a first plurality of pivoting links at least one of which is rotatably coupled to said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis and each coupled to a said first portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers; and a second plurality of pivoting links each rotatably coupled to said manipulable support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding support link axis and each coupled to a said second portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a first plurality of force imparting members each coupled to a said pivoting link in said first group thereof so as to be able to cause at least one of those said pivoting links in said first group thereof to rotate about its corresponding said base link axis, and wherein at least one of said first plurality of force imparting members provides a linear motive force. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said base support is held by a mounting arrangement. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said first plurality of pivoting links is rotatably coupled to said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis, and each of said base link axes extend tangentially along a circular circumference of a corresponding circle centered in said base support, and each said base link axis being tangent to that said circle at a point separated from another such point adjacent thereto by an angle substantially equal to 360.degree. divided by that total number of said pivoting links in said first group of pivoting links. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said first group of pivoting links coupled to said base support is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a hinge supported both by said base support and that said pivoting link. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of link end constrainer straps is formed at least in part by a reduced geometrical extent portion of that said material extending between each said pivoting link in said first plurality thereof and its corresponding said pivoting link in said second plurality thereof. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein each of said pivoting links in said first group thereof has coupled thereto a corresponding one of said first plurality of force imparting members. 8. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said mounting arrangement comprises a base housing, said base housing comprising a plurality of force imparting members mounted therein each connected to a corresponding one of said first group of pivoting links. 9. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of said base link axes extend into regions between adjacent ones of said first group of pivoting links into which regions said base link axes of said adjacent ones also extend. 10. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein both said base support and said first group of pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said base support and each said pivoting link in said first group thereof. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said mounting arrangement further comprises an operating strand extending through said base and manipulable supports and a strand motive means capable of rotating said strand with respect to said manipulable support. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said mounting arrangement further comprises an operating strand extending through said base and manipulable supports and a strand motive means capable of translating said strand with respect to said manipulable support. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein each of said plurality of link end constrainer straps is formed at least in part by a reduced geometrical extent portion of that said material extending between each said pivoting link in said first plurality thereof and its corresponding said pivoting link in said second plurality thereof. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said strand has a sleeve thereabout between said base and manipulable supports. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said strand has a sleeve thereabout between said base and manipulable supports. 16. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to another base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a base support; a manipulable support; a plurality of link end constrainers each having a first portion movably connected to a second portion thereof with said first and second portions thereof each provided as a stemmed ring closed about a ring opening with these rings passing through each other's ring opening, and with these stems providing ends of said first and second portions that can be variably positioned with respect to one another; a first plurality of pivoting links at least one of which is rotatably coupled to said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis and each coupled to a said first portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers; and a second plurality of pivoting links each rotatably coupled to said manipulable support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding support link axis and each coupled to a said second portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a first plurality of force imparting members each coupled to a said pivoting link in said first group thereof so as to be able to cause at least one of those said pivoting links in said first group thereof to rotate about its corresponding said base link axis, and wherein at least one of said first plurality of force imparting members provides a linear motive force. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein each of said first plurality of pivoting links is rotatably coupled to said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis, and each of said base link axes extend tangentially along a circular circumference of a corresponding circle centered in said base support, and each said base link axis being tangent to that said circle at a point separated from another such point adjacent thereto by an angle substantially equal to 360.degree. divided by that total number of said pivoting links in said first group of pivoting links. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein each of said first group of pivoting links coupled to said base support is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a hinge supported both by said base support and that said pivoting link. 20. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein each of said pivoting links in said first group thereof has coupled thereto a corresponding one of said first plurality of force imparting members. 21. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to another base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a base support; a manipulable support; a plurality of force imparting means coupled to said base support; a plurality of link end constrainers each provided as a connecting strap so that each has a first portion movably connected to a second portion thereof so that ends of said first and second portions can be variably positioned with respect to one another; a first plurality of pivoting links at least one of which is rotatably coupled to a corresponding said force imparting means that can impart force thereto so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis and each coupled to a said first portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers; and a second plurality of pivoting links each rotatably coupled to said manipulable support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding support link axis and each coupled to a said second portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein each of said first plurality of said pivoting links coupled to said base support is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a pin extending in said base support and that said pivoting link and about which rotation can occur by at least one of said base support and that said pivoting link. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said base support is held by a mounting arrangement. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein each of said first plurality of pivoting links is rotatably coupled to said first portion of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers, each of said pivoting links in said first plurality thereof is coupled to said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis, and each said base link axis being tangent to that said circle at a point separated from another such point adjacent thereto by an angle substantially equal to 360.degree. divided by that total number of said pivoting links in said first group of pivoting links. 25. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein each of said first plurality of pivoting links coupled to said base support is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a hinge supported both by said base support and that said pivoting link. 26. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein each of said plurality of link end constrainer straps is formed at least in part by a reduced geometrical extent portion of that said material extending between each said pivoting link in said first plurality thereof and its corresponding said pivoting link in said second plurality thereof. 27. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said mounting arrangement comprises a base housing, said base housing comprising a plurality of force imparting members mounted therein each connected to a corresponding one of said first group of pivoting links. 28. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein both said base support and said first group of pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said base support and each said pivoting link in said first plurality thereof. 29. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said mounting arrangement further comprises an operating strand extending through said base and manipulable supports and a strand motive means capable of rotating said strand with respect to said manipulable support. 30. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said mounting arrangement further comprises an operating strand extending through said base and manipulable supports and a strand motive means capable of translating said strand with respect to said manipulable support. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein each of said plurality of link end constrainer straps is formed at least in part by a reduced geometrical extent portion of that said material extending between each said pivoting link in said first plurality thereof and its corresponding said pivoting link in said second plurality thereof. 32. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said strand has a sleeve thereabout between said base and manipulable supports. 33. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said strand has a sleeve thereabout between said base and manipulable supports. 34. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to another base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a base support; a manipulable support; a plurality of force imparting means coupled to said base support; a plurality of link end constrainers each having a first portion movably connected to a second portion thereof with said first and second portions thereof each provided as a stemmed ring closed about a ring opening with these rings passing through each other's ring opening, and with these stems providing ends of said first and second portions that can be variably positioned with respect to one another; a first plurality of pivoting links at least one of which is rotatably coupled to a corresponding said force imparting means that can impart force thereto so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis and each coupled to a said first portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers; and a second plurality of pivoting links each rotatably coupled to said manipulable support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding support link axis and each coupled to a said second portion end of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers. 35. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein each of said first plurality of said pivoting links coupled to said base support is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a pin extending in said base support and that said pivoting link and about which rotation can occur by at least one of said base support and that said pivoting link. 36. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein each of said first plurality of pivoting links is rotatably coupled to said first portion of a corresponding one of said plurality of link end constrainers, each of said pivoting links in said first plurality thereof is coupled to said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis, and each said base link axis being tangent to that said circle at a point separated from another such point adjacent thereto by an angle substantially equal to 360.degree. divided by that total number of said pivoting links in said first group of pivoting links. 37. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein each of said first plurality of pivoting links coupled to said base support is rotatably coupled to said base support through use of a hinge supported both by said base support and that said pivoting link. 