An ultrasonic cleaning method for cleaning the film, scale and sludge from internal surfaces of tubes, tubesheets, tube support plates and channel heads of steam generators previously exposed to water or steam at temperatures of more than 200.degree. C. introduces an ultrasonic transducer or transducer array into the steam generator and submerges the ultrasonic transducer and the surface to be cleaned in water or aqueous solution. Ultrasonic energy is introduced into the water at a power level of 20 watts/gallon or more and at frequencies of from 10 to 200 KHz. An array of transducers is employed to introduce 20 to 60 watts/gallon of water or more into the steam generator. In one practice, the transducer or transducer array is suspended in the steam generator. An array of transducers can be assembled (and later disassembled) in situ where individual transducers or small transducer subassemblies must introduced into the steam generator through small hand holes or other small diameter nozzles. In another practice, the ultrasonic transducer is moved through the water while introducing the ultrasonic energy into the water. Large amounts of ultrasonic energy can be introduced into the water and the energy nodes moved through the water so that the energy can efficiently penetrate into the interior rows of tubes and other internal structures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ultrasonic cleaning method for cleaning a film, scale or sludge from a surface of a shell and tube heat exchanger, wherein the shell and tube heat exchanger comprising a shell, a concentric wrapper within the shell, and a plurality of tubes within the wrapper, wherein each of the plurality of tubes having a primary side on an interior of the tube and a secondary side on an exterior of the tube, wherein each of the plurality of tubes being supported by at least one tube support plate, the method comprising: positioning an ultrasonic transducer having an external surface adjacent the secondary side such that the ultrasonic transducer is located within a circumference of the concentric wrapper, wherein the secondary side having been previously exposed to at least one of water and steam at temperatures of about 200.degree. C. or more, wherein the exposed surface of the secondary side is at least partially covered by the film, scale or sludge; submerging the ultrasonic transducer and at least a portion of the tube secondary side surface in a liquid; and generating ultrasonic energy at a power level in a range of about 20 watts/gallon to 60 watts/gallon near the transducer external surface and at a frequency of from about 10 KHz to about 200 KHz for introducing the ultrasonic energy into the liquid. 2. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 1, wherein the ultrasonic energy is generated at a power level of at least about 10 watts/inch.sup.2 (1.55 watts/cm.sup.2) near the transducer external surface. 3. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 2, wherein the ultrasonic energy is generated at a power level from about 15-40 watts/inch.sup.2 (2.33-6.2 watts/cm.sup.2). 4. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 1, further comprising; positioning the ultrasonic transducer in the shell and tube heat exchanger before submerging the ultrasonic transducer in the liquid. 5. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 4, wherein a chain of ultrasonic transducers are suspended in the shell and tube heat exchanger within the circumference of the wrapper. 6. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 1, wherein an ultrasonic transducer is disposed in a slot in a plate within the circumference of the wrapper for cleaning the plate. 7. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 1, wherein the ultrasonic transducer is introduced into a tube lane in a tube bundle extending from a tubesheet within the circumference of the wrapper. 8. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 7, wherein the ultrasonic transducer is introduced into a tube bundle between spaced apart tube support plates. 9. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 1, further comprising: moving the ultrasonic transducer before generating ultrasonic energy; again moving the ultrasonic transducer after generating ultrasonic energy; and again generating ultrasonic energy at a power level of at least about 10 watts/inch.sup.2 (1.55 watts/cm.sup.2) near the transducer external surface and at a frequency of from about 10 KHz to about 200 KHz for introducing the ultrasonic energy into the liquid. 10. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 1, further comprising: moving the transducer through the liquid as the transducer introduces energy into the liquid. 11. The ultrasonic cleaning method according to claim 1, further comprising: interrupting the ultrasonic energy; moving the ultrasonic transducer through the liquid; and again introducing ultrasonic energy into the liquid with the ultrasonic transducer. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the transducer moves through the liquid between the energy introducing steps. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein a transducer array is introduced into the shell and tube heat exchanger through a nozzle on a delivery device for moving the transducer through the liquid in two directions. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the liquid is an aqueous solution comprising a scale conditioning agent or a chemical cleaning agent. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: positioning a delivery robot into the shell and tube heat exchanger separately from the ultrasonic transducer; and mounting the ultrasonic transducer on the delivery robot in the shell and tube heat exchanger before introducing ultrasonic energy into the liquid. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing one of pressure pulse cleaning, high volume tube bundle washing, upper tube bundle hydraulic cleaning and sludge lancing. 17. The ultrasonic cleaning method according to claim 1, further comprising: suspending the ultrasonic transducer in the vessel. 18. The ultrasonic cleaning method of claim 17, wherein a chain of transducers is suspended in the vessel. 19. An ultrasonic cleaning method, comprising: positioning an ultrasonic transducer into a shell and tube heat exchanger containing surfaces previously exposed to at least one water and steam at a temperature of about 200.degree. C. or more; submerging the ultrasonic transducer and at least a portion of the shell and tube heat exchanger surface in a liquid; introducing ultrasonic energy into the liquid with the ultrasonic transducer; moving the ultrasonic transducer through the liquid, wherein the transducer moves through the liquid while introducing ultrasonic energy into the liquid. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the transducer moves at a velocity of at least about 0.1 inch/minute while introducing ultrasonic energy into the liquid. 