A fractionated sample collection process and device having at least one pressurized chamber used to gather and store liquid samples generated from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid, or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid. A bank of multiple collection chambers is secured together in a frame to form a cassette unit. Each collection chamber may house a replaceable liner such as a test tube vial, to hold a fractionated liquid phase sample. After filling with sample, a collection chamber is returned to a clean state and ready for refilling with a new sample by manually or automatically replacing the liner.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for collecting samples from a biphasic flow stream, comprising: means for controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of a biphasic flowstream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases; means for suppressing formation of aerosols within said separation processes; means for redirecting said flow stream through a valve system according to a physical starting event into a collection cassette having one or more collection chambers; means for retaining said liquid phase in said collection chamber and venting waste products to a waste stream; means for redirecting said flow stream through said valve system according to a physical stopping event into said waste stream or a second said collection chamber; means for connecting components of said apparatus. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said flowstream is the effluent of a supercritical fluid chromatography system or supercritical fluid extraction system. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said transfer tubing has inner diameter of approximately 0.040 to approximately 0.063 inches corresponding to flowrate of approximately 20 to 100 mL/min. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: one or more heaters control the temperature in said transfer tubing. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: one or more restrictors in said flow stream to slow the linear flow rate of said flow stream. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: a detection device in said flow stream controls said physical starting and stopping events. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a timing device controlling said physical starting and stopping events. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a manual signal controlling said physical starting and stopping events. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: an automatic switching valve system controlling the volume and direction of said flow stream. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a manual switching valve system controls the volume and direction of said flow stream. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a replaceable collection chamber liner housed within said collection chamber, said liner capturing liquid phase inside said collection chamber. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said transfer tubing inside said collection chamber is held tangentially to said collection chamber wall. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising: a spring wire attached to said transfer tube held tangentially to said collection chamber wall, said spring wire compressing against a chamber wall and transferring pressure forces to said transfer tube. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a robotic arm, automatically resetting said collection chambers to an uncontaminated state by replacing collection liners housed within each said collection chamber. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said collection chamber is a hollow cylinder secured upright in said cassette, the top of said chamber having an opening wherein said transfer tubing inserts into said chamber. 16. An apparatus for collecting samples from a biphasic flow stream, comprising: means for controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into separate gaseous and liquid phases; means for suppressing formation of aerosols within said separation processes; means for automatically engaging a lid onto a collection chamber; means for redirecting said flow stream through a valve system according to a physical starting event into a collection cassette having one or more said collection chambers; means for retaining said liquid phase in said collection chamber and venting said gaseous phase to a waste stream; means for automatically disengaging said lid from said collection chamber; means for automatically resetting said collection chamber to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing said collection chamber within said cassette; means for redirecting said flow stream through said valve system according to a physical stopping event into said waste stream or a second said collection chamber. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising: means for automatically moving a cassette away from said lid after said lid has disengaged from said cassette. 18. An apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising: means for automatically resetting replaceable chamber liners housed in at least one said collection chamber to an uncontaminated state by robotically replacing said liners within said collection chamber. 19. An apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising: means for robotically removing a first said liner from said cassette and replaced with a second uncontaminated said chamber liner. 