A liquid pharmaceutical for oral delivery wherein at the time of use, a solid unit dosage form is added to the liquid wherein the unit dosage form is comprised of a substrate soluble in the liquid and a particulate pharmaceutically active material in a pharmaceutically effective amount. At the time of use, the unit dosage form is added to the liquid, without requiring measurement of the liquid, and the entire liquid is consumed to provide for oral delivery of the pharmaceutically effective amount of material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for administering a pharmaceutical in a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid carrier, comprising: (a) at the time of use, adding ex vivo to a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid carrier a solid unit dosage form, said solid unit dosage form comprising a substrate that disintegrates in the liquid carrier, at least one particulate pharmaceutically active material deposited on the substrate as a layer distinct from the substrate, said at least one pharmaceutically active material being present on said substrate in a pharmaceutically effective amount, and a cover sheet that disintegrates in the liquid carrier, said cover sheet being disposed over said pharmaceutically active material and sealed to said substrate, whereby said substrate and said cover sheet form an enclosure for said at least one pharmaceutically active material, and whereby said at least one pharmaceutically active material can be delivered orally in the liquid carrier in a pharmaceutically effective dosage without measuring the quantity of liquid carrier at the time of use; and (b) administering orally said at least one pharmaceutically active material and said liquid carrier to said animal. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said pharmaceutically acceptable liquid carrier is water. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said substrate is comprised of at least one material selected from the group consisting of gelatin, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene oxide, polyvinylpyrrolidone, sodium alginate, carboxymethylcellulose, and agar. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said at least one pharmaceutically active material is an antibiotic. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said pharmaceutically active material is an anti-viral agent. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein said pharmaceutically active material is an anti-fungal agent. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said at least one pharmaceutically active material is an anti-infective agent. 