A method and apparatus for electromagnetic navigation of a surgical probe near a metal object. The electromagnetic navigation system includes a transmitter coil array and a shield. The transmitter coil array has a plurality of transmitter coils and is operable to generate the electromagnetic field to navigate the probe. The shield is positioned adjacent the metal object and is operable to shield the metal object from the electromagnetic field generated by the transmitter coil array, such that the shield substantially reduces distortion of the electromagnetic field by the metal object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electromagnetic navigation system for use in navigating a probe through an electromagnetic field positioned near a C-arm, said electromagnetic navigation system comprising: a transmitter coil array having a plurality of transmitter coils, said transmitter coil array operable to generate the electromagnetic field to navigate the probe; and a shield attached to the C-arm, said shield operable to substantially shield the C-arm from the electromagnetic field generated by said transmitter coil array, wherein said shield substantially reduces distortion of the electromagnetic field by the C-arm, thereby enabling accurate navigation of the probe in the electromagnetic field. 2. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield is attached to the C-arm by a mounting mechanism. 3. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 2 wherein said mounting mechanism is formed by an adjustable band clamp. 4. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield is formed from one of a conductive and semi-conductive material. 5. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 4 wherein said shield is formed from a material selected from a group consisting of sheet metal, aluminum, copper, titanium, mu-metal, and conductive mylar. 6. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield is formed as a solid shield. 7. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield is formed as a mesh. 8. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield is formed with a plurality of holes. 9. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said transmitter coil array is attached to said shield. 10. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 9 wherein said transmitter coil array is integrated into said shield. 11. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 9 wherein said transmitter coil array is displaced from said shield. 12. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 further comprising a coil array controller operable to drive the transmitter coil array and a navigation probe interface operable to receive magnetic field strengths sensed by the probe. 13. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 12 further comprising a second transmitter coil array having a plurality of transmitter coils, said second transmitter coil array operable to generate the electromagnetic field to navigate the probe. 14. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 13 wherein said transmitter coil array and said second transmitter coil array are driven simultaneously by said coil array controller. 15. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 13 wherein said transmitter coil array and said second transmitter coil array are driven sequentially by said coil array controller. 16. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 12 further comprising wireless communications between said transmitter coil array, said coil array controller, and said navigation probe interface. 17. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield has a shape selected from a group consisting of conical and planar. 18. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said transmitter coil array includes a plurality of sets of transmitter coils. 19. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of transmitter coils are driven sequentially in a time multiplexed manner. 20. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said plurality of transmitter coils are driven simultaneously with each transmitter coil driven at a unique frequency. 21. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 further comprising a user interface/display unit operable to display a location of the probe navigating through the electromagnetic field. 22. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 13 further comprising a second shield positioned adjacent said second transmitter coil array. 23. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield includes an up-turned peripheral lip. 24. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein the C-arm generates a fluoroscopic image while said transmitter coil array simultaneously generates the electromagnetic field to navigate the probe. 25. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 1 wherein said shield is formed integral with the C-arm. 26. An electromagnetic navigation system for use in navigating a probe through an electromagnetic field during a surgical procedure, said electromagnetic navigation system comprising: a metal instrument used during the surgical procedure, said metal instrument formed at least in part by metallic material; and a transmitter coil array having a plurality of transmit coils, said transmitter coil array operable to generate the electromagnetic field used to navigate the probe, said transmitter coil array integrated and incorporated directly into said metal instrument, wherein effects of metallic distortion on the electromagnetic field by said metal instrument is characterized during a calibration process to provide substantially accurate navigation of the probe during the surgical procedure. 27. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 26 wherein said metal instrument is selected from a group consisting of an operating room (OR) table, a fluoroscope (C-arm), a microscope, an ultrasound hand piece, a high-intensity focused ultrasound systems, a computer tomography imaging system (CT), an intraoperative computer tomography system, a magnetic resonance imaging system (MRI), an intraoperative magnetic resonance system and surgical robot, whereby said transmitter coil array is incorporated directly into said selected metal instrument. 28. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 26 further comprising a coil array controller operable to drive the transmitter coil array and a navigation probe interface operable to receive magnetic field strengths sensed by the probe. 29. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 28 further comprising a second transmitter coil array having a plurality of transmitter coils, said second transmitter coil array operable to generate the electromagnetic field to navigate the probe. 30. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 29 where in said transmitter coil array and said second transmitter coil array are driven simultaneously by said coil array controller. 31. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 29 wherein said transmitter coil array and said second transmitter coil array are driven sequentially by said coil array controller. 32. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 28 further comprising wireless communications between said transmitter coil array, said coil array controller, and said navigation probe interface. 33. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 26 further comprising a user interface/display unit operable to display a location of the probe navigating through the electromagnetic field. 34. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 26 wherein said transmitter coil array includes a plurality of sets of transmitter coils. 35. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 26 wherein each of said plurality of transmitter coils are driven sequentially in a time multiplexed manner. 36. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 26 wherein said plurality of transmitter coils are driven simultaneously with each transmitter coil driven at a unique frequency. 37. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 26 wherein said transmitter coil array is integrated and incorporated directly into a shield integrally formed with said metal instrument. 38. An electromagnetic navigation system for use in navigating a probe through an electromagnetic field positioned near a first metal object and a second metal object, said electromagnetic navigation system comprising: a first transmitter coil array having a plurality of transmitter coils, said first transmitter coil array operable to generate a first electromagnetic field to navigate the probe; a first shield positioned adjacent the first metal object, said first shield operable to substantially shield the first metal object from the electromagnetic field generated by said first transmitter coil array, wherein said first shield substantially reduces distortion of the electromagnetic field by the first metal object; a second transmitter coil array having a plurality of transmitter coils, said second transmitter coil array operable to generate a second electromagnetic field to navigate the probe; and a second shield positioned adjacent the second metal object, said second shield operable to substantially shield the second metal object from the electromagnetic field generated by said second transmitter coil array, wherein said second shield substantially reduces distortion of the electromagnetic field by the second metal object. 39. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 38 wherein the first metal object is a C-arm and the second metal object is an OR table. 40. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 39 wherein said first shield is a conically shaped shield attached to said C-arm and said second shield is a substantially planar shield positioned above the OR table. 41. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 40 wherein said first conically shaped shield is formed integral with said C-arm and said second substantially planar shield is formed integral with said OR table. 42. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 40 wherein said substantially planar shield includes an up-turned peripheral lip. 43. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 39 wherein said C-arm generates a fluoroscopic image while said first transmitter coil array simultaneously generates said first electromagnetic field to navigate the probe. 44. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 38 wherein the first and second metal objects are selected from a group comprising an OR table, a fluoroscope (C-arm), a microscope, an ultrasound hand piece, a high-intensity focused ultrasound system, a computer tomography imaging system (CT), an intraoperative computer tomography system, a magnetic resonance imaging system (MRI), an intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging system, and a surgical robot. 45. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 38 wherein first and second shields are formed from one of a solid shield and a mesh. 46. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 38 wherein said first and second transmitter coil arrays are driven simultaneously by a coil array controller. 47. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 38 wherein said first and second transmitter coil arrays are driven sequentially by a coil array controller. 48. An electromagnetic navigation system for use in navigating a probe through an electromagnetic field positioned near a metal object, said electromagnetic navigation system comprising: a transmitter coil array having a plurality of transmitter coils, said transmitter coil array operable to generate the electromagnetic field to navigate the probe; and a shield positioned adjacent the metal object, said shield operable to substantially shield the metal object from the electromagnetic field generated by said transmitter coil array, said transmitter coil array being integrally formed with said shield, wherein said shield substantially reduces distortion of the electromagnetic field by the metal object, thereby enabling accurate navigation of the probe in the electromagnetic field. 49. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 48 wherein said shield is a conically shaped shield. 50. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 49 wherein said transmitter coils extend about a top and bottom perimeter of said conically shaped shield and extend radially from said conically shaped shield. 51. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 48 wherein said shield has a shape selected from one of either conical and planar. 52. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 49 wherein the metal object is a C-arm and wherein said conically shaped shield is attached to the C-arm. 53. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 49 wherein the metal object is a C-arm and wherein said conically shaped shield is formed integral with the C-arm. 54. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 48 wherein said shield is substantially planar and includes a peripheral up-turned lip. 55. The electromagnetic navigation system as defined in claim 48 wherein the metal object is a C-arm, whereby said C-arm generates a fluoroscopic image while said transmitter coil array simultaneously generates the electromagnetic field to navigate the probe. 