A method for producing a pool of biological samples that is quality assured with respect to the load with microorganisms, using a nucleic acid amplification method, in which a screening pool is tested with a high sensitivity nucleic acid amplification method and can be divided into screening subpools, which are tested with a less sensitive nucleic acid amplification method, where individual samples can be picked out and eliminated, is described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing a pool of quality assured biological samples comprising: (a) testing a screening pool for the presence of a parvovirus genome equivalent, wherein the testing is performed by a first nucleic acid amplification process that has a detection limit (DL-1) for parvovirus, wherein the screening pool comprises collected aliquots from a plurality of biological samples, and wherein the testing determines whether the screening pool has a content of genome equivalents that exceeds a preset limit; (b) forming screening subpools from the screening pool of (a) that have a content of genome equivalents that exceed the preset limit; wherein the screening subpool is comprised of aliquots from a portion of the plurality; (c) testing the subpools of (b) for the presence of a parvovirus genome equivalent, wherein the testing is performed by a second nucleic acid amplification process that has a detection limit (DL-2) for parvovirus, wherein DL-1 is lower than DL-2; (d) eliminating samples corresponding to subpools that have a genome equivalent content that exceeds DL-2; and (e) combining the remaining samples to produce the pool of quality assured biological samples. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first nucleic acid amplification process comprises a polymerase chain reaction. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the preset limit is no more than 10.sup.5 genome equivalents per milliliter. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the preset limit is about 10.sup.4 genome equivalents per milliliter. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the biological samples are obtained from a source selected from the group consisting of blood, plasma, serum and cell culture batches. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the screening pool is formed from aliquots from 512 biological samples, and the subpools are formed from aliquots from 24 biological samples. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second nucleic acid amplification process is performed immediately after performance of the first nucleic acid amplification process. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the parvovirus is parvovirus B-19. 9. (Previously amended) The method according to claim 1, wherein DL-1 is 10.sup.2 to 10.sup.4 genome equivalents per milliliter and DL-2 is 10.sup.4 to 10.sup.7 genome equivalents per milliliter, respectively. 10. The method according to claim 9, wherein DL-2 is at least ten times greater than DL-1. 