A behavior decision system (70) includes a perceptual information acquisition unit (90) which acquires a cause factor being external or internal information acquired by a CCD camera (20), distance sensor (22), microphone (23) or the like and which influences a behavior and a motivational information acquisition unit (81) which acquires an occurrence tendency of a behavior influenced by the cause factor based on the cause factor from the perceptual information acquisition unit (90), a behavior selecting processor (82) which compares occurrence tendencies corresponding to two or more behaviors, acquired by the perceptual information acquisition unit (90) and motivational information acquisition unit (81) and belonging to the same group, to thereby select one of the behaviors, and an output semantics converter module (68) which controls moving parts based on the behavior selected by the behavior selecting processor (82) for expressing the selected behavior. With the behavior decision system, there can be provided a robot having an improved likeness to a living thing or a creature and showing a more similar behavior to that of an animal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus whose moving parts are controlled to make the robotic device behave expressively, the device comprising: means for detecting external or internal information; means for acquiring a cause factor influencing the behavior from the external or internal information detected by the information detecting-means; means for acquiring an occurrence tendency of the cause factor-influenced behavior based on the cause factor acquired by the cause factor acquiring means; means for making a comparison among occurrence tendencies of two or more behaviors, acquired by the occurrence tendency acquiring means and belonging to the same group; means for selecting one of the behaviors based on the result of the occurrence tendency comparison made by the occurrence tendency comparing means; and means for controlling the moving parts based on the behavior selected by the behavior selecting means to have the robot apparatus express the selected behavior; wherein the occurrence tendency of the behavior selected by the behavior selecting means being varied adaptively to the cause factor which is variable due to the actual occurrence of the behavior; and wherein a set of behaviors are organized in the form of a hierarchical structure such that a number of low-order behaviors are associated with a high-order behavior. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the cause factor acquiring means acquires at least a cause factor concerning the perception and a cause factor concerning the motivation. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the cause factor acquiring means acquires the cause factor concerning the motivation, consisting of instinctive or emotional elements. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the instinctive elements includes at least one of "fatigue", "temperature", "pain", "hunger", "thirst", "affection", "curiosity", "elimination" and "sexual", and the emotional elements include at least one of "happiness", "sadness", "anger", "surprise", "disgust", "fear", "frustration", "boredom", "somnolence", "gregariousness", "patience", "tense", "relaxed", "alertness", "guilt", "spite", "loyalty", "submission"and "jealousy". 5. A robot apparatus whose moving parts are controlled to make the robotic device behave expressively, the device comprising: means for detecting external or internal information; means for acquiring a cause factor influencing the behavior from the external or internal information detected by the information detecting-means; means for acquiring an occurrence tendency of the cause factor-influenced behavior based on the cause factor acquired by the cause factor acquiring means; means for making a comparison among occurrence tendencies of two or more behaviors, acquired by the occurrence tendency acquiring means and belonging to the same group; means for selecting one of the behaviors based on the result of the occurrence tendency comparison made by the occurrence tendency comparing means; means for controlling the moving parts based on the behavior selected by the behavior selecting means to have the robot apparatus express the selected behavior; wherein the occurrence tendency of the behavior selected by the behavior selecting means is varied adaptively to the cause factor which is variable due to the actual occurrence of the behavior; a behavior selection system in which a set of behaviors are organized in the form of a hierarchical structure, a set of low-order behaviors belonging to the same group indicating concrete behaviors of high-order behavior, and wherein: the occurrence tendency comparing means compares occurrence tendencies of the set of low-order behaviors in the group corresponding to the high-order behavior; the behavior selecting means selects a low-order behavior based on the result of the occurrence tendency comparison by the occurrence tendency comparing means; and when the behavior selected by the behavior selecting means is a lowest-order one, the moving part controlling means controls the moving parts based on the lowest-order behavior. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein: the cause factor acquiring means acquires a cause factor concerning the perception and a cause factor concerning the motivation; and the occurrence tendency acquiring means acquires the occurrence tendency of at least one behavior in the lowest layer based on the cause factor concerning the perception. 7. The device of claim 1, further comprising a set of objects for the behavior selection; and wherein the cause factor acquiring means, occurrence tendency acquiring means and behavior selecting means are implemented by the objects, respectively. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the occurrence tendency comparing means compares a set of occurrence tendencies by behavior arbitration(exclusive control) between the occurrence tendencies of behaviors whose tendencies of occurrence are to be compared. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the detecting-means is a sensor. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the cause factor acquiring means acquires a cause factor for evaluation of a behavior from sensor information being external or internal information detected by the sensor. 11. A method for deciding the behavior of a robot apparatus whose moving parts are controlled to have the robot apparatus behave expressively, the method comprising the steps of: detecting external or internal information of the robot by an information detecting-means; acquiring a cause factor influencing the behavior from the external or internal information detected in the information detecting step; acquiring an occurrence tendency of the cause factor-influenced behavior based on the cause factor acquired in the cause factor acquiring step; making a comparison among occurrence tendencies of two or more behaviors, acquired in the occurrence tendency acquiring step and belonging to the same group; selecting one of the behaviors based on the result of the occurrence tendency comparison made in the occurrence tendency comparing step; and controlling the moving parts based on the behavior selected in the behavior selecting step to have the robot apparatus express the selected behavior; wherein the occurrence tendency of the behavior selected in the behavior selecting step being varied adaptively to the cause factor which is variable due to the actual occurrence of the behavior; and wherein a set of behaviors are organized in the form of a hierarchical structure such that a number of low-order behaviors are associated with a high-order behavior. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein in the cause factor acquiring step, there are acquired at least one cause factor concerning the perception and a cause factor concerning the motivation. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein in the cause factor acquiring step, there is acquired the cause factor concerning the motivation, consisting of instinctive or emotional elements. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the instinctive elements includes at least one of "fatigue", "temperature", "pain", "hunger", "thirst", "affection", "curiosity", "elimination"and "sexual", and the emotional elements include at least one of "happiness", "sadness", "anger", "surprise", "disgust", "fear", "frustration", "boredom", "somnolence", "gregariousness", "patience", "tense", "relaxed", "alertness", "guilt", "spite", "loyalty", "submission"and "jealousy". 15. The device of claim 11, wherein: the robot apparatus further comprises a set of objects for the behavior selection; and the cause factor acquiring step, occurrence tendency acquiring step and behavior selecting step are executed by the objects, respectively. 16. The device of claim 11, wherein in the occurrence tendency comparing step, a set of occurrence tendencies is compared by behavior arbitration(exclusive control) between the occurrence tendencies of behaviors whose tendencies of occurrence are to be compared. 17. The device of claim 11, wherein the detecting-means is a sensor. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein in the cause factor acquiring step, there is acquired a cause factor for evaluation of a behavior from sensor information being external or internal information detected by the sensor. 19. A method for deciding the behavior of a robot apparatus whose moving parts are controlled to have the robot apparatus behave expressively, the method comprising the steps of: detecting external or internal information of the robot by an information detecting-means; acquiring a cause factor influencing the behavior from the external or internal information detected in the information detecting step; acquiring an occurrence tendency of the cause factor-influenced behavior based on the cause factor acquired in the cause factor acquiring step; making a comparison among occurrence tendencies of two or more behaviors, acquired in the occurrence tendency acquiring step and belonging to the same group; selecting one of the behaviors based on the result of the occurrence tendency comparison made in the occurrence tendency comparing step; controlling the moving parts based on the behavior selected in the behavior selecting step to have the robot apparatus express the selected behavior; the occurrence tendency of the behavior selected in the behavior selecting step being varied adaptively to the cause factor which is variable due to the actual occurrence of the behavior wherein the robot apparatus further comprises a behavior selection system in which a set of behaviors are organized in the form of a hierarchical structure, a set of low-order behaviors belonging to the same group indicating concrete behaviors of high-order behavior; wherein in the occurrence tendency comparing steps, there are compared occurrence tendencies of the set of low-order behaviors in the group corresponding to the high-order behavior; wherein in the behavior selecting step, there is selected a low-order behavior based on the result of the occurrence tendency comparison made in the occurrence tendency comparing step; and wherein in the moving part controlling step, when the behavior selected in the behavior selecting step is a lowest-order one, the moving parts is controlled based on the lowest-order behavior. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein: in the cause factor acquiring step, there is acquired a cause factor concerning the perception and a cause factor concerning the motivation; and in the occurrence tendency acquiring step, there is acquired the occurrence tendency of at least one behavior in the lowest layer based on the cause factor concerning the perception. 