A mechanical human figure standing in a golf putting posture, having a lower stationary assembly of feet, legs, and spine, and having an upper pivoting assembly of shoulders and arms. The arms are fixed relative to the shoulders. A golf club is fixed to the lower ends of the arms in a golf putting grip. The upper assembly is attached to the spine on a pivot axle extending forward and upward from the top of the spine between the shoulders. The club head pivots in a circular swing arc tangent to the ground. A golf ball and a stroke guide are placed on the ground in front of the robot. Two laser sources on the pivoting assembly illuminate two aspects of a proper stroke on the ground and on the guide. The arms are lifted manually into a backswing and released, striking the ball and demonstrating the guide.
Claims I claim: 1. A golf stroke demonstration robot in the form of a mechanical human figure standing in a golf putting posture on a horizontal surface, comprising: a lower stationary assembly of feet, legs, and a spine having a top end; an upper pivoting assembly of shoulders and arms, the arms having lower ends attached to a golf club holder; the upper assembly rotationally attached to the lower assembly on a pivot axle extending forward and upward from the top of the spine between the shoulders, the upper assembly having a pivot axis; a first laser source on the upper assembly that projects a planar laser beam downward in a plane normal to the pivot axis; and a second laser source on the upper assembly that projects a planar laser beam downward in a plane including the pivot axis and passing through the club holder. 2. The golf stroke demonstration robot of claim 1 in combination with a golf stroke training guide on the horizontal surface in front of the robot, the guide having a vertical guide surface in the form of a vertical extrusion of an arc; a top surface attached to the guide surface; and a series of club face alignment marks on the top surface, each of which is a line perpendicular to an imaginary horizontal line tangent to the guide surface at the intersection of the alignment mark with the guide surface. 3. The golf stroke training device of claim 2, further comprising: a golf club mounted in the holder; a head on the club with a ball-striking point that moves with the upper assembly, describing a circular arc about the pivot axis; and wherein the vertical guide surface has the form of a vertical extrusion of a portion of an ellipse defined by the equation Y=.+-.B/RR.sup.2 -X.sup.2 where the ellipse is in a horizontal plane using an x, y coordinate system whose origin is the geometric center of the ellipse, the x direction is positive to the right and the y direction is positive forward relative to the robot, B is the horizontal distance from the center of the circular arc to a golf ball on the horizontal surface to be struck by the ball-striking point, and R is the radius of the circular arc. 4. A golf stroke demonstration robot in the form of a mechanical human figure standing in a golf putting posture on a horizontal surface, comprising: a lower stationary assembly comprising two feet attached to two legs, the two legs having upper ends attached to a spine having a top end; an upper pivoting assembly comprising two arms attached to two shoulders, the two shoulders joined to a pivot assembly between them, each arm having a distal end, the two arms converging downward from the shoulders to the distal ends; a golf club holder attached to the two distal ends of the arms; a golf club with a grip mounted in the golf club holder in a golf putting position, the golf club having a lower end with a head, the head having a heel and a generally planar ball-striking face with an optimum ball-striking point; the upper assembly attached to the lower assembly on a pivot axle extending forward and upward from the top of the spine between the shoulders into the pivot assembly such that the club head pivots about the axle in a circle tangent to the ground, and the ball-striking point follows a circular path in a swing plane; the ball-striking face plane approximately normal to the swing plane; a first laser source attached to the upper assembly that projects a planar laser beam toward the horizontal surface in the plane of the club face, illuminating a first line on the horizontal surface that indicates the club face alignment; the robot having a front, a left, and a right side. 5. The golf stroke demonstration robot of claim 4, further comprising a second laser source attached to the upper assembly that projects a planar laser beam toward the horizontal surface in the swing plane, illuminating a second line on the horizontal surface that indicates a ball-target line. 6. The golf stroke demonstration robot of claim 4 in combination with a golf stroke training guide on the horizontal surface in front of the robot having a vertical guide surface in the form of a vertical extrusion of an arc, that guides the heel of the golf club along a desired path; a top surface attached to the guide surface; and a series of ball-striking face alignment marks on the top surface, each of which is a line perpendicular to an imaginary horizontal line tangent to the guide surface at the intersection of the alignment mark with the guide surface. 7. The golf stroke training device of claim 6, wherein the vertical guide surface has the form of a vertical extrusion of a portion of an ellipse according to the equation where the ellipse is in a horizontal plane using an x, y coordinate system whose origin is the geometric center of the ellipse, the x direction is positive to the right and the y direction is positive forward relative to the robot, B is the horizontal distance from the center of the circular path to a golf ball on the horizontal surface to be struck by the ball-striking point, and R is the radius of the circular path. 