Applicants' invention includes an automated data storage system which includes one or more data storage libraries each of which includes one or a plurality of accessors which retrieve data storage media from a plurality of storage slots and deliver that retrieved data storage media to a data storage drive unit, where each of the plurality of accessors includes one or more attachment slots and a plurality of retractable wheels, and a maintenance robot which includes a plurality of wheels and an attachment device which is capable of insertion into, and subsequent removal from, the attachment slot(s) located on each of the accessors. Applicants' invention further includes a method utilizing Applicants' maintenance robot to remove one of Applicants' accessors from a data storage library.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated data storage system, comprising: a first rail system comprising a first rail and a second rail; an accessor moveably disposed on said first rail system; a second rail system having a first rail, a second rail, a first end and a second end wherein said first end is disposed adjacent said first rail system; a maintenance robot movably disposed on said second rail system; wherein said accessor comprises: a first frame formed to include an attachment slot; a first wheel rotatably disposed on said frame; a second wheel rotatable disposed on said frame, wherein said first wheel and said second wheel are moveably disposed on said first rail of said first rail system; a pillar having a first end and a second end, wherein said first end connects to said frame; an accessing mechanism movably disposed on said pillar such that accessing mechanism travels bi-directionally along said pillar, wherein said accessing mechanism comprises a robotic manipulator mounted on a moveable carriage; a third wheel rotatably disposed on said second end of said pillar, wherein said third wheel is moveably disposed on said second rail of said first rail system; a first motor disposed on said pillar, wherein said first motor connects to said third wheel such that operation of said first motor in a first direction causes said third wheel to rotate in a first direction, and wherein operation of said first motor in a second direction causes said third wheel to rotate in a second direction; wherein said maintenance robot comprises: a second frame having a bottom member, a top member, and a first support member; a second motor disposed on said first support member; a moveable attachment device disposed on said first support member, wherein said second motor is connected to said moveable attachment device; a fourth wheel and a fifth wheel disposed on said top member, wherein said fourth wheel and said fifth wheel are moveably disposed on said first rail of said second rail system; a sixth wheel and a seventh wheel disposed on said bottom member, wherein said sixth wheel and said seventh wheel are moveably disposed on said second rail of said second rail system; a third motor disposed on said bottom member and connected to said fourth wheel; wherein said attachment device can be inserted into said attachment slot and subsequently removed therefrom. 2. The automated data storage system of claim 1, wherein said accessor comprises a plurality of attachment slots, and wherein said attachment device comprises a plurality of engagement rods each of which can be inserted into one of said plurality of attachment slots and subsequently removable therefrom. 3. The automated data storage system of claim 2, further comprising a third rail system, wherein said second end of said second rail system is disposed adjacent to and substantially perpendicular to said third rail system. 4. The automated data storage system of claim 1, wherein said top member comprises a first end and a second end, and wherein said bottom member comprises a first end and a second end, further comprising: a first side member attached to said first end of said top member and said first end of said bottom member, and a second side member attached to said second end of said top member and said second end of said bottom member; wherein said first support member has a proximal end and a distal end, and wherein said proximal end is pivotably attached to said first end of said top member; wherein said fourth wheel is rotatably mounted on said first end of said bottom member, said fifth wheel is rotatably mounted on said second end of said bottom member, said sixth wheel is rotatably mounted on said first end of said top member, and said seventh wheel is rotatably mounted on said second end of said top member. 5. The automated data storage system of claim 4, wherein said maintenance robot further comprises a second support member having a top end a bottom end, wherein said top end connects to said distal end of said first support member and wherein said bottom end connects to said first side member. 6. The automated data storage system of claim 5, wherein said attachment device further comprises an engagement rod. 7. The automated data storage system of claim 6, wherein said engagement rod has a cross section selected from the group consisting of circular, ovoid, triangular, square, rectangular, pentagonal, and hexagonal. 8. The automated data storage system of claim 2, wherein each of said plurality of engagement rods is independently movable. 