A cremation repository stores a multiplicity of containers holding cremated remains of respective individual organisms. In response to a request from a living human patron, the request incorporating an identification of the patron and an identification of one of the containers, a computer is operated to check a database to determine whether the patron is entitled to view the identified container. Where the request is proper or authorized, a robot mechanism is operated to retrieve the identified container from a respective storage location and to deliver the identified container to a predetermined location accessible by the patron. After the patron has completed visitation with the retrieved container, the robot mechanism is operated to return the that container in an essentially unaltered state to the container's storage location. The patron is enabled to order music and optionally other environmental conditions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a cremation repository, comprising: storing a multiplicity of containers holding cremated remains of respective individual organisms; receiving, from a living human patron, an identification of said patron and an identification of one of said containers; operating a computer to check a database to determine whether said patron is entitled to view said one of said containers; operating a robot mechanism to retrieve said one of said containers from a respective storage location and to deliver said one of said containers to a predetermined location accessible by said patron; and after said patron has completed visitation with said one of said containers, operating said robot mechanism to return said one of said containers in an essentially unaltered state to said storage location. 2. The method set forth in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from a another living patron, an identification of said another living patron and an identification of another one of said containers; operating said computer to check said database to determine whether said another living patron is entitled to view said another one of said containers; operating said robot mechanism to retrieve said another one of said containers from a pre-established storage location and to deliver said another one of said containers to a selected location accessible by said another living patron; and after said another living patron has completed visitation with said another one of said containers, operating said robot mechanism to return said another one of said containers in an essentially unaltered state to said pre-established storage location. 3. The method set forth in claim 2 wherein said predetermined location and said selected location are different. 4. The method set forth in claim 3 wherein said predetermined location and said selected location are disposed in respective rooms of a cremation repository facility. 5. The method set forth in claim 2 wherein said robot mechanism includes a plurality of robot units, different ones of said robot units being operated to retrieve different ones of said containers. 6. The method set forth in claim 1, further comprising operating said computer to extract payment from an account of said patron. 7. The method set forth in claim 6 wherein the operating of said computer to extract payment includes automatically accessing said account through a telecommunications network to debit said account. 8. The method set forth in claim 1, further comprising: receiving a request from said patron for one of a plurality of predetermined environmental conditions; and automatically generating the requested environmental condition for said patron during at least a portion of a period that said patron is visiting with said one of said containers. 9. The method set forth in claim 8 wherein the requested environmental condition is reproduction of sounds selected by said patron, the generating of the requested environmental condition including operating a sound reproduction system to perform or reproduce the selected sounds. 10. The method set forth in claim 9 wherein the selected sounds are music. 11. A cremation repository comprising: a plurality of storage receptacles containing a plurality of storage containers holding cremated remains of respective individuals; a robot mechanism disposed proximate to said storage receptacles for accessing same, said robot mechanism including an entrainment device for entraining at least one of said storage containers at a time; a computer operatively connected to said robot mechanism for controlling access operations thereof, said computer having a memory storing locations of said storage containers in said receptacles; and an input device operatively connected to said computer for selecting one of said storage containers to be retrieved by said robot mechanism and conveyed by said robot mechanism to a predetermined location. 12. The repository set forth in claim 11, further comprising a payment execution device operatively connected to said computer and said input device for implementing collection of a payment from a user and enabling retrieval and conveyance operations by said robot mechanism only upon collection of a payment. 13. The repository set forth in claim 12 wherein said payment execution device is connected to a telecommunications network for debiting accounts of users or patrons in accordance with numbers of visits by the users or patrons to the cremation repository. 14. The repository set forth in claim 11 wherein said computer includes means for extracting payment from accounts of users or patrons of the cremation repository. 15. The repository set forth in claim 14 wherein said computer is operatively connected to a telecommunications network for accessing financial accounts of users or patrons to extract payments for user or patron use of the cremation repository. 16. The repository set forth in claim 11, further comprising an environmental control for generating any one of a plurality of predetermined environmental conditions, said computer being operatively connected to said environmental control for automatically operating same to produce an environmental condition requested by a user or patron. 17. The repository set forth in claim 16 wherein said environmental control is a sound reproduction system. 18. The repository set forth in claim 11 wherein said computer includes means for determining whether any given user or patron is entitled to visit with a container of cremated remains selected by said user or patron. 19. A method for operating a cremation repository, comprising: storing a multiplicity of containers holding cremated remains of respective individual organisms; receiving, from a living human patron, an identification of said patron and an identification of one of said containers; operating a computer to check a database to determine whether said patron is entitled to view said one of said containers; operating a mechanism to optically highlight or emphasize said one of said containers over other containers stored at the same location; and after said patron has completed visitation with said one of said containers, operating said mechanism to return said one of said containers to a condition of optical uniformity with the other urns at said location. 