A computer-based system provides arm movement therapy for patients with sensory motor impairments. The system is based off a web site that provides access to assessment and therapy exercises designed to test and improve motor coordination in the arm. It operates over the World Wide Web using client-side applets, and can track user movement recovery over time and report it to a remote server computer. The system can also be customized to provide a personalized program of therapeutic exercise to a multiplicity of individuals. A mass manufactured computer input device senses the user's movement and provides a means to track sensory motor performance.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for remotely providing therapy services to a human patient having impaired function of a limb through a computer network, said patient communicating to a server computer through said computer network from a client computer, said method comprising: coupling a conventional mass-produced computer input device to said client computer; modifying said conventional mass-produced computer input device to provide a secure connection between said conventional mass-produced computer input device and said impaired limb of said patient whereby said patient may effectively engage said conventional mass-produced computer input device; providing a rest for said limb for supporting said limb of said patient; and providing interactive video feedback to said patient in response to a predetermined desired therapeutic exercise. 2. The method of claim 1 where providing said conventional mass-produced computer input device comprises providing a force feedback joystick. 3. The method of claim 1 where providing said conventional mass-produced computer input device comprises providing a mass-produced computer mouse. 4. The method of claim 1 where providing said conventional mass-produced computer input device comprises providing a mass-produced trackball. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising monitoring rehabilitation status of said patient using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a library of rehabilitation status tests using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a library of therapy activities using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising displaying changes in sensory, motor, and/or cognitive status of said patient using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising displaying said patient's frequency of use of said status tests using JAVA based software communication. 10. The method of claim 7 further comprising displaying said patient's frequency of use of said therapy activities using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising monitoring through said computer network a patient' performance and frequency of exercise using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a "to-do-list" of rehabilitation activities for said patient to accomplish using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising providing encouraging feedback to said patient when said "to-do-list" is accomplished using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising customizing said "to-do-list" for said patient through said computer network using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 15. An apparatus for remotely providing therapy services to a human patient having impaired function of a limb through a computer network, said patient communicating to a server computer through said computer network from a client computer, said apparatus comprising: a conventional mass produced computer input device coupled to said client computer; a splint coupled between said conventional mass produced computer input device and said limb of said patient whereby said patient may effectively engage said conventional mass produced computer input device; a rest for elevating and maintaining a predetermined position of said limb of said patient; and means for providing interactive video feedback to said patient in response to a predetermined desired therapeutic exercise. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 where said mass produced computer input device is a force feedback joystick, where said rest is arranged and configure to cancel the effects of gravity on said limb, thus resulting in less torque resistance applied to said force feedback joystick, and where said means for providing interactive video feedback to said patient also provides an assistive force to said limb through said force feedback joystick. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 where said force feedback joystick is a mass produced, unmodified force feedback joystick. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for monitoring rehabilitation status of said patient using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 19. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for providing a library of rehabilitation status tests and therapy activities using JAVA based software communication using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 20. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for displaying changes in sensory, motor, and/or cognitive status of said patient using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 21. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for displaying said patient's frequency of use of said status tests and therapy activities using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 22. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for monitoring through said computer network a patient' performance and frequency of exercise using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 23. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising means for providing a "to-do-list" of rehabilitation activities for said patient to accomplish using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising means for providing encouraging feedback to said patient when said "to-do-list" is accomplished using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising means for customizing said "to-do-list" for said patient through said computer network using client sided computer applets downloaded between said server computer and said client computer. 26. A method for remotely providing individualized therapy services to a multiplicity of human of patients with sensory motor impairments through a computer network, said patients communicating to a server computer through said computer network from a corresponding multiplicity of client computers, said method comprising: downloading individualized information from said server computer to said client computer in which said individualized information specifies a therapy and assessment exercise for said patient to perform; providing said therapy and assessment exercise that can be performed autonomously without real-time supervision of a therapist; measuring said patient's sensory motor performance with sensors or input devices coupled to said client computer; updating a database on said server computer based on information from said sensors or input devices; analyzing said information on said server computer; and downloading said analyzed information to said client computer to provide individualized, quantitative feedback about said patient's sensory motor performance over time. 27. The method of claim 26 further comprising comparing said patient's sensory motor performance to an average performance of similar patients, and displaying said comparison to said patient. 28. The method of claim 26 further comprising providing access to said server computer from one of said client computers to a rehabilitation service provider, examining said patient's sensory motor performance for an individual patient, and providing to said server computer a modified therapy program for said individual patient. 29. The method of claim 26 further comprising providing mass-manufactured computer input or gaming devices as said sensors or input devices. 30. The method of claim 26 further comprising providing a World Wide Web server as said server computer, a Web browser for providing access from said client computer to said server computer, and an Internet communication between said server computer and client computer. 31. The method of claim 26 where downloading individualized information from said server computer to said client computer comprises downloading client-side computer applets from said server computer and executing said client-side computer applets on said client computer. 32. An apparatus for remotely providing individualized therapy services to a multiplicity of human of patients with sensory motor impairments through a computer network, said patients communicating to a server computer through said computer network from a corresponding multiplicity of client computers, said apparatus comprising: means for downloading individualized information from said server computer to said client computer in which said individualized information specifies a therapy and assessment exercise for said patient to perform; means for providing said therapy and assessment exercise that can be performed autonomously without real-time supervision of a therapist; means for measuring said patient's sensory motor performance with sensors or input devices coupled to said client computer; means for updating a database on said server computer based on information from said sensors or input devices; means for analyzing said information on said server computer; and means for downloading said analyzed information to said client computer to provide individualized, quantitative feedback about said patient's sensory motor performance over time. 33. The apparatus of claim 32 further comprising means for comparing said patient's sensory motor performance to an average performance of similar patients, and means for displaying said comparison to said patient. 34. The apparatus of claim 32 further comprising means for providing access to said server computer from one of said client computers to a rehabilitation service provider, means for examining said patient's sensory motor performance for an individual patient, and means for providing to said server computer a modified therapy program for said individual patient. 35. The apparatus of claim 32 further comprising mass-manufactured computer input or gaming devices as said sensors or input devices. 36. The apparatus of claim 32 where said server computer comprises a World Wide Web server, said client computer includes a Web browser for providing access to said server computer, and where said computer network is an Internet communication between said server computer and client computer. 37. The apparatus of claim 32 where said means for downloading individualized information from said server computer to said client computer comprises means for downloading client-side computer applets from said server computer and means for executing said client-side computer applets on said client computer. 38. A method for remotely providing individualized therapy services to a multiplicity of human of patients with sensory motor impairments through a computer network, said patients communicating to a server computer through said computer network from a corresponding multiplicity of client computers, said method comprising: downloading individualized information as client-sided computer applets from said server computer and from said server computer to said client computer in which said individualized information specifies a therapy and assessment exercise for said patient to perform; executing said client-side computer applets on said client computer; providing said therapy and assessment exercise that can be performed autonomously without real-time supervision of a therapist; measuring said patient's sensory motor performance with sensors or input devices coupled to said client computer; updating a database on said server computer based on information from said sensors or input devices; analyzing said information on said server computer; and downloading said analyzed information to said client computer to provide individualized, quantitative feedback about said patient's sensory motor performance over time. 