A two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt design Cartesian robot wherein each axis is independently controlled and all applied forces are along the centerline of the robot structure. This unique design allows for the use of a low cost control system since a so-called "multi-axis motion controller" is not required. Co-location of the drive systems allows support of the robot from one end. Centering of forces acting on a carriage assembly allows for the reduction of the weight of the robot for a given payload.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A Cartesian two-axis robot comprising: A) a first guide member extending along a first direction attached to a stationary fixed point and having proximal and remote ends; B) a hollow carriage that is translatably supported on the first guide member and has a centerline; C) a second guide member that extends in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction, penetrates said hollow carriage and is supported by the carriage to be moveable in both the first and second direction; D) first and second idler pulleys rotatably supported on two ends of the second guide member; E) a third idler pulley rotatably supported on the remote end of the first guide member and perpendicular to said first and second idler pulleys; F) intermediate pulleys rotatably supported on four corner portions of said carriage parallel to said first and second idler pulleys; G) a first drive mechanism on said first guide member at said stationary fixed point that drives a first drive belt having two ends attached to said remote end of said first guide member and is looped in a cross shape on the first and second idler pulleys and the intermediate pulleys; H) a second drive mechanism on said first guide member at said stationary fixed point oriented orthogonal to said first drive mechanism and that drives a second drive belt having two ends connected to opposing sides of said carriage and is looped on said third idler pulley thereby controlling translational movement of said carriage along said first guide member said first and said second drive mechanisms all acting along the centerline of said carriage. 2. The Cartesian robot of claim 1 wherein said stationary fixed point comprises a pivot point. 3. The Cartesian robot of claim 2 wherein said pivot point comprises a drive mechanism capable of rotating said Cartesian robot about said stationary fixed point. 4. The Cartesian robot of claim 1 wherein said intermediate pulleys are separately mounted upon shafts attached between pairs of wheels that include shoulder portions that engage said second guide member and thereby simultaneously serve to guide said second guide member in its movement is the second direction. 5. The Cartesian robot of claim 1 wherein said drive mechanisms are servo motors. 6. A two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot comprising: A) a first guide member having a first fixed end and a second remote end; B) a first drive mechanism located at said fixed end; C) a second drive mechanism located at said fixed end orthogonal to said first drive mechanism; D) a first idler pulley at said remote end; E) a track on said first guide member; F) a carriage having an aperture therein and including wheels that engage said track and permit said carriage to longitudinally traverse said first guide member; G) a second guide member having opposing ends oriented perpendicular to said first guide member and that penetrates said aperture; H) second and third idler pulleys located at said opposing ends; I) intermediate pulleys located at four corners of said carriage; J) a first drive belt having opposing ends attached to said remote end, driven by said first drive mechanism and looped in a cross shape on said second and third idler pulleys and said intermediate pulleys; K) a second drive belt driven by said second drive mechanism, attached to opposing sides of said carriage and looped about said first idler pulley such that activation of said second drive mechanism causes said carriage and said second guide member to move along said first guide member. 7. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 6 wherein said stationary fixed point comprises a pivot point. 8. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 7 wherein said pivot point comprises a drive mechanism capable of rotating said Cartesian robot about said stationary fixed point. 9. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 6 wherein said intermediate pulleys are independently mounted on shafts joining pairs of guide wheels that include shoulder portions that engage said second guide member and thereby simultaneously serve to guide said second guide member in its movement is the second direction. 10. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 6 wherein said drive mechanisms are servo motors. 11. A two axis, two drive motor, two belt Cartesian robot comprising: A) a first guide member that extends along a first direction and is attached to a stationary fixed point; B) a hollow carriage that is translatably supported on the first guide member having a centerline and driven by a first drive belt that is driven by a first guide motor; C) a second guide member that extends in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction, penetrates said hollow carriage, is supported by the carriage to be moveable in both the first and second directions and is driven by a second drive belt that is driven by a second drive motor; wherein both said first and said second drive motors are located at said fixed point and are oriented orthogonal to each other, and said first and said second drive mechanisms act along said centerline. 12. The two-axis, two drive belt, two drive motor Cartesian robot of claim 11 further comprising: I) a remote end on said first guide member and a first idler pulley at said remote end; II) a track on said first guide member; III) an aperture in said carriage and including wheels on said carriage that engage said track and permit said carriage to longitudinally traverse said first guide member; IV) opposing ends on said second guide member oriented perpendicular to said first guide member; V) second and third idler pulleys located at said opposing ends; VI) intermediate pulleys located at four corners of said carriage; VII) said second drive belt having opposing ends attached to said remote end, driven by said second drive motor and looped in a cross shape on said second and third idler pulleys and said intermediate pulleys; and VIII) said first drive belt attached to opposing sides of said carriage and looped about said first idler pulley such that activation of said first drive motor causes said carriage and said second guide member to move along said first guide member. 13. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 12 wherein said stationary fixed point comprises a pivot point. 14. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 13 wherein said pivot point comprises a drive mechanism capable of rotating said Cartesian robot about said stationary fixed point. 15. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 12 wherein said intermediate pulleys are independently rotatably mounted on shafts joining guide wheel pairs that include shoulder portions on said guide wheels that engage said second guide member and thereby simultaneously serve to guide said second guide member in its movement is the second direction. 16. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 11 wherein said drive mechanisms are servo motors. 17. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 1 further including a tool attached to one end of said second guide member. 18. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 17 wherein said tool comprises a rotatable, vacuum activated head. 19. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 6 further including a tool attached to one end of said second guide head. 20. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 11 further including a tool attached to one end of said second guide member and wherein said tool comprises a rotatable, vacuum activated head. 21. The two axis, two drive mechanism, two belt Cartesian robot of claim 12 further including a tool attached to one end of said second guide member and wherein said tool comprises a rotatable, vacuum activated head. 