An intelligent power assisted manual manipulator controllable by operator inputs from an operator for moving an object is provided. The manipulator includes a movable base supporting a lift mechanism for moving the object. The manipulator also includes at least one servomotor for actuating at least one of the movable base and the lift mechanism for moving the object. An operator control mechanism for receiving the operator inputs is supported on the lift mechanism. A plurality of force sensors are disposed between the operator control mechanism and the lift mechanism for sensing said operator inputs and actuating at least one of the at least one servomotor. The movable base includes an overhead rail defining a generally horizontal first axis and a carriage supported on the overhead rail and movable along the first axis. The lift mechanism includes a turret assembly supported on the carriage having a generally vertical second axis, and a generally horizontal third axis. The carriage has first and second elongated portions in opposing generally horizontal planes and third and fourth elongated portions in generally vertical planes. Oversize rollers on unhardened ways support the carriage. A main arm extends from the turret with the main arm being rotatable about the second and third axes. An attachment interface is supported by the main arm and adapted to support the object, the attachment interface having a fifth axis about which the attachment interface is rotatable. The manipulator is also adapted for lifting different objects having different weights. The arm has a portion opposite the pivotal connection adapted to support the object. A gravity balancer mechanism is adapted to support the different weights, and a motion servomotor is adapted to produce a movement of the arm by drivingly rotating the arm about the axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An intelligent power assisted manual manipulator having at least five axes and being controllable by operator inputs from an operator for moving an object, said manipulator comprising: a movable base comprising an overhead rail defining a generally horizontal first axis, and a carriage supported on said overhead rail and movable along said first axis; a lift mechanism for moving the object, wherein said lift mechanism is supported by said movable base and comprises a turret assembly supported on said carriage and having a generally vertical second axis and a generally horizontal third axis, a main arm extending from said turret assembly and being rotatable about said second axis, and a secondary arm depending downwardly from said main arm and being rotatable about a generally vertical fourth axis, and wherein said secondary arm comprises an attachment interface that is adapted to support the object and has a fifth axis; a linkage pivotally attached at one end to said turret assembly and operatively connected at another end to said secondary arm for maintaining said secondary arm in a generally vertical orientation; at least one servomotor for drivingly translating said carriage along said first axis and for drivingly rotating said main arm about said second axis; an operator control mechanism for receiving the operator inputs to control said manipulator about said first, second, third, fourth, and fifth axes, said operator control mechanism supported on said lift mechanism; and a plurality of force sensors disposed between said operator control mechanism and said lift mechanism, said force sensors sensing a force of the operator inputs and causing said at least one servomotor to actuate at least one of said movable base and said lift mechanism such that the object is moved. 2. The manipulator as set forth in claim 1 wherein said plurality of force sensors comprises a multi-axis force sensor. 3. The manipulator as set forth in claim 1 wherein said at least one servomotor comprises a first servomotor for drivingly translating said carriage along said first axis, and a second servomotor for drivingly rotating said main arm about said second axis. 4. The manipulator as set forth in claim 3 wherein said main arm is rotatable about said third axis, and said at least one servomotor comprises a third servomotor for drivingly rotating said main arm about said third axis. 5. The manipulator as set forth in claim 4 wherein said lift mechanism and the object each have a weight, and wherein said lift mechanism further comprises a gravity balancer mechanism for supporting said weight of said lift mechanism and the weight of the object. 6. The manipulator as set forth in claim 4 wherein said at least one servomotor comprises a fourth servomotor for drivingly rotating said secondary arm about said fourth axis. 7. The manipulator as set forth in claim 6 wherein said at least one servomotor comprises a fifth servomotor for drivingly rotating said attachment interface about said fifth axis. 8. The manipulator as set forth in claim 6 further comprising an elbow assembly pivotally attached to said main arm and supporting said secondary arm, and said linkage is generally parallel with said main arm and pivotally attached to said elbow and said turret assembly for maintaining said secondary arm in the generally vertical orientation. 9. The manipulator as set forth in claim 8 wherein said secondary arm is generally L-shaped with a generally horizontal short member and a downwardly depending generally vertical long member with said attachment interface supported on said long member. 10. The manipulator as set forth in claim 9 wherein said operator control mechanism is supported on said long member proximate to said attachment interface. 11. The manipulator as set forth in claim 10 further comprising a cable drive assembly having a drive pulley supported on said overhead rail and an idler pulley supported on said overhead rail opposite said drive pulley, and at least one cable secured to said carriage and said drive pulley, said first servomotor coupled to said drive pulley for drivingly rotating said drive pulley and moving said carriage along said first axis. 12. The manipulator as set forth in claim 3 further comprising a cable drive assembly having a drive pulley supported on said carnage and at least one cable secured to said overhead rail and said cable wound about said drive pulley, said first servomotor coupled to said drive pulley for drivingly rotating said drive pulley and moving said carriage along said first axis. 13. The manipulator as set forth in claim 2 wherein said operator control mechanism further includes at least one handle, and said multi-axis force sensor is interposed between said at least one handle and said secondary arm. 14. The manipulator as set forth in claim 13 wherein said at least one handle has a presence detector adapted to detect the presence of said operator at said operator control mechanism, said at least one servomotor actuatable when said operator is present at said operator control mechanism and disabled when said operator is absent from said operator control mechanism. 15. The manipulator as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a force sensor which disables said at least one servomotors when said operator input exceeds a predetermined load. 