An archive system for records with an audio component, which uses automated speech recognition to create a multi-layered archive pyramid. The archive pyramid includes successive layers of data stored at varying data rates such as original video data, compressed video data, original audio, compressed audio data, recognized word-lattices, recognized word-bags and a global word index. The disclosed system uses automatic speech recognition to transcribe from audio to searchable index layers. During a search operation, automatic and semi-automatic techniques are used to search the archive pyramid from the smallest narrowest layers to the largest widest layers, to identify a moderate subset of records. This subset is further refined by a manual survey of regenerated compressed audio. Finally, the selected records are retrieved from the original audio archive layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An archived structure for records having an audio component, the archive structure comprising: an original audio archive layer; a compressed audio archive layer corresponding to the original audio archive layer; at least one index archive layer generated by performing automatic speech recognition of said compressed audio archive layer, wherein said at least one index archive layer corresponds to said compressed audio archive layer and said original audio archive layer and wherein said at least one index archive layer includes at least one layer of recognized utterances. 2. The archive structure as defined by claim 1, wherein said at least one layer of recognized utterances further includes at least one of: a recognized word-lattices layer; a recognized word-bags layer; and a global word index layer. 3. The archive structure as defined by claim 1, wherein the records include a video component, the archive structure further comprising: an original video archive layer; and a compressed video archive layer corresponding to the original video archive layer. 4. An archiving system for records having an audio component, the archiving system comprising: means for generating and accessing an original audio archive layer; means for generating and accessing a compressed audio archive layer corresponding to the original audio archive layer; and means employing automatic speech recognition for generating and accessing at least one index archive layer corresponding to said original audio archive layer and said compressed audio archive layer. 5. The archiving system as defined by claim 4, wherein said means for generating at least one index archive layer includes means for generating a layer of recognized utterances. 6. The archiving system as defined by claim 5, wherein said layer of recognized utterances further comprises at least one of a layer of recognized word-lattices, a layer of recognized word-bags, and a global word index layer. 7. The archiving system as defined by claim 4, further comprising: means for generating and accessing an original video archive layer; and means for generating a compressed video archive layer corresponding to the original video archive layer. 8. The archiving system as defined by claim 7, wherein: said means for generating and accessing an original audio archive layer and said means for generating and accessing an original video archive layer include a robotic tape library and; said means for generating and accessing at least one index archive layer include a hard disk drive. 9. The archiving system as defined by claim 4, further comprising: means for automatically searching said at least one index layer to identify relevant records; and means for recalling and surveying said identified relevant records from said compressed audio archive layer. 10. The archiving system as defined by claim 9, wherein said means for automatically searching includes: means for receiving search input criteria; and means for generalizing said search input criteria. 11. The archiving system as defined by claim 10, wherein said means for generalization includes a computer-based thesaurus. 12. The archiving system as defined by claim 4, wherein said means for generating and accessing said at least one index archive layer is updatable and includes means for updating at least a portion of the archive structure. 13. The archiving system as defined by claim 4, further comprising means for downgrading a record in an archive structure. 14. The archiving system as defined by claim 13, wherein said means for downgrading a record includes: means for determining a last access of a record in the archive; and means for downgrading a record in an archive when a predetermined time has passed since said last access. 15. A method of archiving records including an audio component comprising the steps: storing original audio records in an original audio archive layer; generating and storing a compressed audio archive layer corresponding to said original audio archive layer; generating an index archive layer by performing automatic speech recognition of said compressed audio archive layer, wherein said index archive layer corresponds to said compressed audio archive layer and said original audio archive layer and wherein said step generating an index archive layer, further comprises the step of generating a layer of recognized utterances. 16. The method of archiving as defined by claim 15, wherein said layer of generating a layer of recognized utterances step further comprises the step of generating a layer of recognized word-lattices. 17. The method of archiving as defined by claim 15, wherein said layer of generating a layer of recognized utterances step further comprises the step of generating a layer of recognized word-bags. 18. The method of archiving as defined by claim 15, wherein said layer of generating a layer of recognized utterances step further comprises the step of generating a global word index layer. 19. The method of archiving as defined by claim 15, further comprising the step of searching the index layer to identify relevant records. 20. The method of archiving as defined by claim 19, wherein said searching step includes the steps: receiving search input criteria; generalizing said search input criteria; and applying the generalized search criteria to a search of said index layer. 21. The method of archiving as defined by claim 20, wherein said index layer includes a layer of recognized word-lattices, a layer of recognized word-bags; and a global word index layer, and wherein said search step includes the steps: searching the global word index and identifying a first subset of records; searching said first subset of records in the recognized word-bag layer to identify a second subset of records; searching said second subset of records in the recognized word lattice layer to identify a third subset of records; and manually surveying said third subset of records to identify said relevant records. 22. The method of archiving as defined by claim 21, wherein said manual surveying step includes the steps of: viewing a visual summary of the records in the third subset of records to identify a fourth subset of records; and regenerating the records in the fourth subset of records from said compressed audio layer and audibly surveying the records in the fourth subset of records to identify said relevant records. 23. The method of archiving as defined by claim 15, further comprising the steps: generating a layer of recognized word-lattices; generating a layer of recognized word-bags; and generating a global word index layer; receiving search input criteria; generalizing said search input criteria; searching the global word index and identifying a first subset of records; searching said first subset of records in the recognized word-bag layer to identify a second subset of records; searching said second subset of records in the recognized word lattice layer to identify a third subset of records; viewing a visual summary of the records in the third subset of records to identify a fourth subset of records; and regenerating the records in the fourth subset of records from said compressed audio layer and audibly surveying the records in the fourth subset of records to identify said relevant records. 24. The method of archiving as defined by claim 15, further comprising the step of downgrading infrequently accessed records in the archive. 25. The method of archiving as defined by claim 15, further comprising the step of upgrading said index layer after said step of generating an index layer. 26. An archiving system for records having an audio component, the archive system comprising: means for generating and accessing an original audio archive layer; means for generating and accessing a compressed audio archive layer corresponding to the original audio archive layer; means for employing automatic speech recognition for generating and accessing at least one index archive layer corresponding to said original audio archive layer; and means for downgrading a record in an archive structure. 