A manipulator for use in medical procedures can manipulate a medical tool with one or more degrees of freedom with respect to a patient. The manipulator is particularly useful for positioning a medical tool with respect to a patient disposed inside an imaging device such as a computer tomography machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator for use in medical procedures comprising: a movable guide; a carriage mounted on and movable along the guide; an actuator operatively connected to the carriage for moving the carriage along the guide; and a positioning mechanism mounted on the carriage for holding a medical tool, the positioning mechanism including at least one actuator for moving the medical tool and being capable of moving the tool with at least two degrees of freedom with respect to the carriage including rotating the medical tool about a yaw axis and a pitch axis perpendicular to the yaw axis. 2. A manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein the guide includes an arch on which the carriage is movably mounted. 3. A manipulator as claimed in claim 2 wherein the arch has a shape of an arc of a circle. 4. A manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein the carriage is capable of rolling along the guide. 5. A manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein the positioning mechanism is capable of moving the tool in a lengthwise direction of the tool. 6. A manipulator as claimed in claim 5 wherein the positioning mechanism is capable of rotating the tool about a yaw axis perpendicular to the lengthwise direction of the tool. 7. A manipulator as claimed in claim 1 including a flexible member extending along the guide parallel to a path of movement of the carriage along the guide, wherein the actuator comprises a motor mounted on the carriage and a capstan rotated by the motor, the flexible member passing around the capstan. 8. A manipulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the flexible member rests on the guide, and the capstan is spaced from the guide by approximately a thickness of the flexible member. 9. A manipulator as claimed in claim 7 wherein the motor is mounted on an interior of the carriage and extends into a recess in the guide. 10. A manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein the guide passes through a recess in the carriage. 11. A manipulator as claimed in claim 1 further including a table for supporting a patient and wherein the guide is movable in a lengthwise direction of the table. 12. A manipulator as claimed in claim 11 wherein the guide can roll along the table. 13. A manipulator as claimed in claim 11 wherein the guide is supported by the table. 14. An imaging arrangement comprising: a medical imaging device having a gantry and a table for supporting a patient extending into a bore of the gantry; a guide movable in a lengthwise direction of the table about a patient lying on the table; a carriage mounted on the guide for movement along the guide; a carriage actuator operatively connected to the carriage for moving the carriage along the guide; a medical tool mounted on the carriage, the guide being movable to a position in which the medical tool lies in a viewing field of the imaging device including the patient; and a positioning mechanism mounted on the carriage and including at least one actuator for moving the medical tool, the positioning mechanism being capable of moving the tool with respect to the carriage with at least three degrees of freedom including rotation of the tool about first and second axes perpendicular to a lengthwise direction of the tool and movement of the tool toward and away from a patient lying on the table. 15. An arrangement as claimed in claim 14 wherein the positioning mechanism can move the tool in a lengthwise direction of the tool. 16. An arrangement as claimed in claim 15 wherein the positioning mechanism can insert the tool into the patient lying on the table. 17. An arrangement as claimed in claim 14 wherein the guide can move in the lengthwise direction of the table into the bore of the gantry. 18. An arrangement as claimed in claim 14 wherein the guide is movably mounted on the table. 19. An arrangement as claimed in claim 14 wherein the guide has an arcuate portion, and the carriage is mounted on the arcuate portion. 20. An arrangement as claimed in claim 19 wherein the arcuate portion has a shape of an arc of a circle. 21. An arrangement as claimed in claim 14 including a distance sensor mounted on the positioning mechanism and an adjusting mechanism responsive to the distance sensor for automatically adjusting a distance of the tool from the patient lying on the table. 22. An arrangement as claimed in claim 21 wherein the adjusting mechanism comprises a parallel linkage mechanism. 23. An arrangement as claimed in claim 14 wherein the positioning mechanism includes a clamp capable of releasably grasping the tool, and an actuator for moving the clamp in a lengthwise direction of the tool into the patient. 24. An arrangement as claimed in claim 23 wherein the positioning mechanism includes a guide for guiding the tool as the tool is moved by the clamp. 25. An arrangement as claimed in claim 24 wherein the guide comprises a second clamp capable of releasably grasping the tool. 