A sample handling system includes a loading rack for receiving carriers with a plurality of test tubes holding samples. A robotic device transports a carrier with the samples to a positioner that moves the tubes within the carrier into an aspiration position. After aspiration, the robotic device returns the carrier to the loading rack. The system provides for handling of stat samples and automatic retesting of samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sample handling device for handling a plurality of samples to be tested by a diagnostic module, the sample handling device comprising: a plurality of containers, each container adapted for containing a sample; a plurality of carriers for holding at least one of the plurality of containers; a loading rack for holding the plurality of carriers; a positioner adjacent a diagnostic module, the positioner having a plurality of openings adapted for receiving at least one of the plurality of carriers; a transporter for transporting at least one of the plurality of carriers from the loading rack to the positioner and then back to the loading rack, said transporter having random-access to the plurality of carriers, wherein the positioner receives the carrier and moves the carrier such that the diagnostic module can test at least one of a plurality of samples in the carrier. 2. The sample handling device of claim 1 further comprising a programmable computer for controlling the movement of the transporter and the positioner based on input data and a preprogrammed priority order for processing a plurality of samples. 3. The sample handling device of claim 2 wherein the loading rack includes an urgent sample area for receiving at least one urgent sample carrier, the urgent sample carrier holding at least one urgent sample container adapted for containing an urgent sample. 4. The sample handling device of claim 2, wherein the programmable computer automatically controls the transporter to select a carrier for retesting based on the input data and the preprogrammed priority order for processing samples. 5. The sample handling device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of carriers have a uniquely identifying machine readable label which by reference to the data held by the programmable computer will indicate the tests to be conducted on the samples in the carrier. 6. The sample handling device of claim 1, wherein the transporter comprises a robotic device. 7. The sample handling device of claim 6, wherein the carrier includes a support tab and the robotic device includes a gripping means for gripping to the support tab of the carrier to transport the carrier. 8. The sample handling device of claim 1 wherein the loading rack is configured such that the plurality of carriers are aligned linearly adjacent a diagnostic module. 9. A sample handling device for handling a plurality of samples to be tested by at least one diagnostic module, the sample handling device comprising: a loading rack adapted for receiving a plurality of carriers, each carrier adapted to hold at least one of a plurality of samples; a positioner adjacent at least one diagnostic module, the positioner having a plurality of openings for receiving at least one of the plurality of carriers; a transporter for transporting at least one of the plurality of carriers from the loading rack to the positioner and then back to the loading rack, wherein the positioner moves the carrier such that the diagnostic module can test at least one of a plurality of samples in the carrier; and a preprogrammed computer for controlling the movement of the transporter and the positioner based on input data and priority order for processing a plurality of samples. 10. The sample handling device of claim 9 wherein the loading rack includes an urgent sample area for receiving at least one urgent sample carrier, the urgent sample carrier adapted for holding at least one of a plurality of samples. 11. The sample handling device of claim 9, wherein the programmable computer automatically controls the transporter to select a carrier for retesting as required. 12. The sample handling device of claim 9, wherein the plurality of carriers have a uniquely identifying machine readable label which by reference to the data held by the programmable computer will indicate the tests to be conducted on the samples in the carrier. 13. The sample handling device of claim 9, wherein the transporter includes a robotic arm for transporting the plurality of carriers. 14. The sample handling device of claim 13, wherein the carrier includes a support tab and the robotic arm includes a gripping means for gripping to the support tab of the carrier to transport the carrier. 15. A sample handling device for handling samples to be tested by a plurality of diagnostic modules, the sample handling device comprising: a plurality of containers, each container adapted for containing a plurality of samples; a plurality of carriers for holding at least one of the plurality of containers; a loading rack for holding the plurality of carriers; a plurality of positioners, each positioner having a plurality of openings for receiving at least one of the plurality of carriers, wherein each diagnostic module has at least one adjacent positioner; a transporter for transporting at least one of the plurality carriers between the loading rack and the positioner, the transporter having random-access to the plurality of carriers, wherein the positioner moves the carrier such that the adjacent diagnostic module can test at least one of a plurality of samples in the carrier. 16. The sample handling device of claim 15 further comprising a programmable computer for controlling the movement of the transporter and the positioner based on input data and a preprogrammed priority order for processing the plurality of samples. 17. The sample handling device of claim 16 wherein the loading rack includes an urgent sample area for receiving urgent sample carriers, the urgent sample carriers adapted for holding at least one urgent sample. 18. The sample handling device of claim 17, wherein the programmable computer automatically controls the transporter to select a carrier for retesting as required. 19. The sample handling device of claim 15, wherein the plurality of carriers have a uniquely identifying machine readable label which by reference to the data held by the programmable computer will indicate the tests to be conducted on the samples in the carrier. 20. The sample handling device of claim 15, wherein the transporter comprises a robotic arm for holding each of the plurality of carriers individually. 