The present invention generally provides a physical vapor deposition chamber and a method for detecting a position of a shutter disk within a physical vapor deposition chamber. In one embodiment, a physical vapor deposition chamber includes a chamber body having a shutter disk mechanism disposed therein. A housing is sealingly coupled to a sidewall of the chamber body and communicates therewith through a slot formed through the sidewall. At least a first sensor is disposed adjacent to the housing and orientated to detect the presence of a shutter disk mechanism within the housing. In one embodiment, a method for detecting the position of a shutter disk within a physical vapor deposition chamber having a substrate support generally includes moving the shutter disk away from a substrate support, and changing a state of a first sensor in response to a position of an edge the shutter disk.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A physical vapor deposition chamber comprising: a chamber body having sidewalls and a bottom defining a process volume; a shutter disk mechanism at least partially disposed in the process volume; a slot formed through one of the sidewalls; a housing sealingly coupled to the chamber body; and at least a first sensor disposed adjacent to the housing and orientated to detect the presence of a portion of the shutter disk mechanism within the housing. 2. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein the housing further comprises a window formed therein, the first sensor viewing the shutter mechanism through the window. 3. The chamber of claim 2, wherein the window is quartz. 4. The chamber of claim 1 further comprising a second sensor disposed adjacent to the housing and orientated to detect the presence within the housing of the shutter mechanism. 5. The chamber of claim 1, wherein the shutter mechanism further comprises: a rotatable shaft; a blade coupled perpendicularly to the shaft; and a shutter disk removably disposed on the blade. 6. The chamber of claim 5, further comprising a second sensor disposed adjacent to the first sensor, the first and second sensors orientated to detect the presence within the housing of at least one of the blade and the shutter disk. 7. The chamber of claim 6, further comprising a third sensor disposed adjacent to the first and second sensors, the third sensor orientated to detect the presence of the blade within the housing. 8. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein the housing further comprises: a first window formed through a first portion of the housing; and a second window formed through a second portion of the housing, the first sensor viewing the shutter mechanism when positioned between the windows. 9. The chamber of claim 8, wherein the first sensor further comprises: an emitter disposed proximate the first window; and a receiver disposed proximate the second window and linearly aligned with the emitter, first window and second window. 10. A physical vapor deposition processing chamber comprising: a chamber body having sidewalls and a bottom; a substrate support disposed in the chamber body; a slot formed in one of the sidewalls; a housing sealingly coupled to the chamber body and around the perimeter of the slot; at least a first window disposed in the housing; a shutter blade adapted to support a shutter disk, the shutter blade rotatable between a first position at least partially disposed in the housing and a second position within the chamber body proximate the substrate support; and a first sensor disposed proximate the housing and orientated to detect the presence of the shutter disk viewed through the first window when the blade is in the first position. 11. The chamber of claim 10, further comprising: a second sensor disposed proximate the housing and orientated to detect the presence of the shutter disk viewed through the first window when the shutter blade is in the first position. 12. The chamber of claim 11, wherein the second sensor is disposed radially outward from the first sensor relative to the substrate support. 13. The chamber of claim 12, wherein the first sensor, the second sensor and the substrate support are linearly aligned. 14. The chamber of claim 11 further comprising: a shaft sealingly disposed through the chamber bottom and coupled to the shutter blade; and a shaft sensor disposed exterior to the chamber and orientated to detect the presence of the shutter blade in the second position by a rotational orientation of the shaft. 15. The chamber of claim 11, further comprising: a third sensor disposed proximate the housing and orientated to detect the presence of the shutter blade viewed through the first window when the blade is in the first position. 16. A physical vapor deposition processing chamber comprising: a chamber body having sidewalls and a bottom; a substrate support disposed in the chamber body; a slot formed in one of the sidewalls; a housing sealingly coupled to the chamber body and around the perimeter of the slot; at least a first window disposed in the housing; a shutter disk disposed in the chamber body, the shutter disk rotatable between a first position at least partially disposed in the housing and a second position within the chamber body proximate the substrate support; a first sensor disposed proximate the housing and orientated to detect the presence of the shutter disk viewed through the first window when the blade is in the first position; and a second sensor disposed radially outward from the first sensor relative to the substrate support, and orientated to detect the presence of the shutter disk viewed through the first window. 