An apparatus for automatically supplying predetermined amounts of feed to animals over a predetermined period which may be a period of time such as 24 hours or based on other occurrences such as the number of animals that are being fed. Each animal feeds at a trough in a feeding area wherein the animal is identified and which may be provided in a preferably circular feeding column or available to an animal in a milking compartment. A plurality of feed types are provided for each animal wherein the amounts and types are computer controlled and take into consideration a number of factors such as the nutrition needs of the particular animal, its preferences in feed types, whether the animal involved is in a lactation period, the milk yield of the animal, the season of the year, the weather, and the physical profile of the animal being fed. Data is retained in the memory of the computer as to when each animal eats, what it eats, how much if any feed is left in the feeding trough and whether or not an animal has consumed the predetermined types of food that it should consume during the predetermined period. If not, the difference is calculated and an amount of feed is provided in portions for each relevant animal which amount is smaller or equal to the difference as a feed balance to the animal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automatically supplying a predetermined amount of feed to an animal during a predetermined period, which apparatus comprises an area for receiving and feeding the animal in which the animal is at least in part confined, animal identification means for identifying an animal present in said area, a computer for automatically controlling the supply of feed to be consumed by an animal in said area, measuring means for determining the amount of feed consumed by an animal in said area after receiving a supply of feed therein and transmitting information as to the amount of said feed so consumed to a memory of said computer, a calculating device in said computer for determining the total amount of feed consumed by such animal during said predetermined period and also the amount of food consumed by such animal immediately after said animal is identified as being in said area by said animal identification means, said calculating device determining the difference between said predetermined amount of feed and, the total amount of feed actually consumed by the animal in said predetermined period, said computer controlling the supply of feed to be consumed by said animal during said predetermined period of time by adding a feed balance to said feed actually consumed by the animal an amount of further feed not greater than the difference between said predetermined amount of feed and the actual amount of feed consumed by said animal during said predetermined period. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said computer controls the providing of said feed balance to said animal in feed portions. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein each said feed portion comprises at least a minimum feed portion size. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein said calculating device calculates the feed portion sizes of each said feed portion. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein said calculated feed portion size is approximately 5% of said feed balance. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 5, wherein said computer includes a comparing device for comparing a calculated feed portion size with the minimum feed portion size and when the comparison result indicates that the calculated feed portion size is smaller than the minimum feed portion size, said computer controls the device so that the minimum feed portion size is supplied to said animal. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein when an animal is detected by said animal identification means at said area, said computer controls a device so that one said minimum feed portion size is initially supplied to said animal. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said computer includes a blocking period and said feed comprises a plurality of different types of feeds, said computer only controlling a device for supplying a selected type of feed to said animal after, counting from the last point of time the feed was supplied to said animal, said blocking period has elapsed. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said computer stores in said memory the points of time when each animal reports to and departs from said area. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said area includes a feeding trough and said measuring means comprises weighing means for determining the weight of feed in said trough. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 10, wherein said computer stores in said memory the date said measuring means for determining the amount of feed consumed by the animal makes such determination. 12. An apparatus in accordance claim 11, wherein said calculating device determines the difference between the weight of feed supplied to said trough and the weight of the remaining feed present in said trough in calculating said feed balance. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12, wherein said computer includes a comparing device for comparing said weight of remaining feed with a minimum threshold value, said computer only controlling the supplying further feed to said trough when the comparison provided by said comparing device indicates that the weight of remaining feed in said trough is below said minimum threshold value. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, comprising supply means for automatically supplying several types of feed to an animal during a said predetermined period. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14, comprising mixing means for mixing different said types of said feed before said different types of feed are supplied to said area. 16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 14, wherein said computer controls said supply means so that at least one of said types of feed is supplied to said area at least substantially separately from the other said types of feed. 17. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said area comprises a stall of a plurality of stalls and said computer controls the apparatus so that feed is first supplied to that stall wherein an animal in said area has been most recently detected by a said animal identification means. 18. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said area comprises a milking compartment, the apparatus further comprising a milking robot for automatically milking a dairy animal in said milking compartment, said area including a feed trough for feeding an animal in said milking compartment. 19. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said area is included in a feeding column and comprises a feed trough. 20. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, which comprises supply means for automatically supplying different types of feed to said area, and a parameter measuring means for measuring a momentary value of a variable parameter and for issuing a parameter value signal to said computer, said computer controlling the supplying of said types of feed to said area by means of control signals to said supply means so that said types of feed are supplied in predetermined amounts and in a predetermined order, said computer being provided with a processing device for processing said parameter value signal into said control signal. 21. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, which comprises supply means for automatically supplying different types of feed to said area, and a parameter measuring means for measuring a momentary value of a variable parameter and for issuing a parameter value signal to said computer, said computer controlling the supplying of said types of feed to said area by means of control signals to said supply means so that said types of feed are supplied in a predetermined ratio of said feed types as a mixture, said computer being provided with a processing device for processing said parameter value signal into said control signals. 22. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, which comprises parameter measuring means that affect the computer controls of the apparatus, said parameter measuring means being selected from a group consisting of an atmospheric-condition measuring means for measuring atmospheric conditions, a time measuring means for measuring the point of time of a day, a further time measuring means for measuring the period of time of a year, means for measuring the physical condition score of each animal identified by said identification means, means for determining for each animal its rate of consumption, means for measuring for each animal its milk yield, means for measuring the amounts of protein or fat or minerals or amino acids or any combination thereof in milk obtained from each animal, means for measuring the amount of each type of feed consumed by each animal or any combination of the foregoing. 23. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein feed is conveyed to said area by conveying means which comprises a first conveyor for conveying an amount of feed from a hopper to a receptacle and a second conveyor for conveying an amount of feed from said receptacle to a feed trough in said area. 24. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said receptacle is provided with a weighing means for measuring feed present in said receptacle. 25. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said receptacle includes a bottom which is adapted to be opened and closed. 26. An apparatus in accordance with claim 25 comprising controlling means for controlling the opening and closing of said bottom of said receptacle. 27. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said second conveyor comprises a tube-shaped chute. 28. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said second conveyor comprises a channel-shaped chute. 29. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, comprising closing means for selectively closing said trough and controlling means for controlling the operation of said closing means. 30. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the length of said predetermined period is at least in part dependent on one or more of the following factors: the physical condition of the individual animal, or the lactation period of the individual animal, or the season of the year, or the weather. 31. A device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said computer comprises timing means for determining the point of time of the supply of feed to each animal received by said apparatus and said predetermined period is a predetermined length of time. 32. An apparatus for supplying a plurality of different feeds to animals during a predetermined period based on the nutrition needs and food preferences of each individual animal that uses the apparatus, the apparatus comprising a plurality of containers, each of said containers containing a different type of feed, a computer, a feed trough, delivery means controlled by said computer for selectively delivering said types of feed to said feed trough, identification means for identifying each animal that consumes said feed types at said trough, said computer including a memory which contains for each animal identified by said identification means data relating to the types of feed and the amounts thereof such animal should consume during each said predetermined period and a preferred order for each type of feed to be delivered to said trough while such animal is at said trough, measuring means at said trough for measuring the amount of said types of feed said animal actually consumes while at said trough during said predetermined period, said computer receiving information from said measuring means as to the actual consumption of each said animal from a said trough during said predetermined period and when an animal consumes less of any type of feed than data in a memory of said computer indicates such animal needs to meet its nutritional needs, said computer controls said delivery means to supply additional selected types of feed to said trough to be consumed by said animal which is substantially equal to or less than the amounts of types of food according to data in said memory which will meet the optimum nutritional needs of such animal. 33. An apparatus in accordance with claim 32, wherein said predetermined period comprises a predetermined period of time. 34. An apparatus in accordance with claim 32, which further comprises a milking compartment for confining said animal and robotic means associated with said milking compartment for automatically milking said animal confined therein, said trough being available whereby an animal in said milking compartment can consume feed therefrom. 