A modular lift-pin assembly comprises a lift-pin having a distal end and a connector having a lift-pin end and an actuator end. The lift-pin end of the connector is coupled to the distal end of the lift-pin and an actuator pin is then coupled to the actuator end of the connector to actuate the lift-pin through the connector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular lift-pin assembly comprising: a lift-pin having a distal end; a connector, comprising: an actuator end having a first plurality of catch fingers disposed around said actuator end; a lift-pin end having a second plurality of catch fingers disposed around said lift-pin end, wherein each of said first and second pluralities of catch fingers includes a lip extending radially inwards; and said lift-pin end coupled to the actuator end of said lift-pin; and an actuator pin coupled to the actuator end of said connector. 2. The lift-pin assembly of claim 1 wherein said distal end of said lift-pin is inserted into said second plurality of catch fingers of said lift-pin end of said connector. 3. The lift-pin assembly of claim 1 wherein said connector Is fabricated from a polymer. 4. The lift-pin assembly of claim 1 wherein said actuator pin comprises a projecting portion positioned proximate said actuator end of said connector wherein said lips of said first plurality of catch fingers of said connector snap fit over said projecting portion. 5. The lift-pin assembly of claim 1 wherein said actuator pin is fabricated from a ceramic material. 6. The lift-pin assembly of claim 4, wherein said lip comprises a flat that is substantially perpendicular to a central axis of said connector. 7. A lift-arm assembly comprising: a substantially C-shaped lift-pin ring; an actuation arm coupled to said C-shaped lift-pin ring; and a plurality of wear pads disposed on an upper surface of said C-shaped lift-pin ring. 8. The lift-arm assembly of claim 7 wherein the plurality of wear pads is three. 9. A semiconductor wafer processing chamber, comprising: a substrate support platform having a centrally disposed recess; a base disposed above said centrally disposed recess; a substrate support disposed over said base; a plurality of lift-pin holes extending through said support platform, said base, said substrate support, and circumscribing said centrally disposed recess; a plurality of modular lift-pin assemblies slidably extending through said lift-pin holes; and a C-shaped lift-arm assembly disposed below said base and engaging said plurality of lift-pin assemblies. 10. The processing chamber of claim 9, wherein each modular lift-pin assembly of said plurality of lift-pin assemblies comprises: a lift-pin having a distal end; a connector having a lift-pin end and an actuator end; the lift-pin end coupled to said distal end of said lift-pin; and an actuator pin coupled to the actuator end of said connector. 11. The processing chamber of claim 10 wherein each of said lift-pins is slidably disposed through a corresponding first bushing in said substrate support. 12. The processing chamber of claim 11 wherein said actuator pin is slidably disposed through a second bushing in said support platform and said actuator pin extends below said support platform. 13. The processing chamber of claim 12 wherein said actuator pin is guided by said second bushing. 14. The processing chamber of claim 10 wherein said connector comprises: a first plurality of catch fingers disposed around said actuator end; and a plurality of catch fingers disposed around said lift-pin end. 15. The processing chamber of claim 14 wherein said distal end of said lift-pin is inserted into said second plurality of catch fingers of said lift-pin end of said connector. 16. The processing chamber of claim 15 wherein said first and second pluralities of catch fingers includes a lip extending radically inwards, said lip having a flat that is substantially perpendicular to a central axis of said connector. 17. The processing chamber of claim 16 wherein said actuator pin comprises a projecting portion positioned proximate said actuator end of said connector wherein said lips of said first plurality of catch fingers of said connector snap fit over said projecting portion. 18. The processing chamber of claim 17 wherein said projecting portion having a diameter greater than a diameter defined by said lips of said first plurality of catch fingers and said projecting portion having an undercut, of said projecting portion to secure said actuator pin to said actuator end of said connector. 19. The processing chamber of claim 17 wherein said distal end having a diameter greater than a diameter defined by said lips of said second plurality of catch fingers and said distal end having an undercut, and the flat of said lips bank against said lift-pin end of said connector. 20. The processing chamber of claim 19 wherein said greater diameter portion of said actuator pin is positioned to lift a lift-pin side of said second bushing, and said greater diameter portion is larger than an inside diameter of said second bushing wherein travel of said lift-pin away from said support surface is limited. 21. The processing chamber of claim 9 wherein said C-shaped lift-arm assembly comprises: a substantially C-shaped lift-pin ring; an actuation arm coupled to said C-shaped lift-pin ring and a connecting portion disposed at a distal end of said actuation arm; and a plurality of wear pads disposed on an upper surface of said substantially C-shaped lift-pin ring. 22. The processing chamber of claim 21 wherein the plurality of wear pads is three. 23. The processing chamber of claim 21 wherein said lift-arm assembly actuates said plurality of lift-pins. 24. The processing chamber of claim 23 wherein said actuator pins of said lift-pin assemblies are disposed on the wear pads. 25. The processing chamber of claim 24 wherein said wear pads are larger in diameter of said actuator pins such that misalignment between said actuator pins and said C-shaped lift-pin ring is compensated for. 26. The processing chamber of claim 25 wherein said support platform further comprises a C-shaped slot in a second surface of said support platform and having a distance extending radically from said centrally disposed recess; and said connecting portion is coupled to an actuator for providing movement for extending said lift-pins. 27. The processing chamber of claim 26 wherein said C-shaped lift-pin ring travels into said slot of said second surface of said support platform in a raised position, wherein said lift-pins are raised via said actuator pins. 