Improved robotic surgical systems, devices, and methods include selectably associatable master/slave pairs, often having more manipulator arms than will be moved simultaneously by the two hands of a surgeon. Four manipulator arms can support an image capture device, a left hand tissue manipulation tool, a right hand tissue manipulation tool, and a fourth surgical instrument, particularly for stabilizing, retracting, tool change, or other functions benefiting from intermittent movement. The four or more arms may sequentially be controlled by left and right master input control devices. The fourth arm may be used to support another image capture device, and control of some or all of the arms may be transferred back-and-forth between the operator and an assistant. Two or more robotic systems each having master controls and slave manipulators may be coupled to enable cooperative surgery between two or more operators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: an imaging system transmitting an image from an image capture device to a display; first and second manipulator arms, each arm supporting an associated surgical instrument; a master controller disposed adjacent the display, the master having a first input device manipulatable by a first hand of an operator, and a second input device manipulatable by a second hand of the operator; an assistant input device manipulatable by a hand of an assistant; and a processor which has a plurality of selectable modes including a) a first mode wherein the processor operatively couples the first input device of the master to the first manipulator arm and the second input device to the second manipulator arm so that movement of the first and second input devices effects movement of the associated surgical instruments, b) a second mode wherein the processor operatively decouples one of the first and second manipulator arms from its associated input device and operatively couples the decoupled manipulator arm to the assistant input device so that movement of the assistant input device effects movement of the associated surgical instrument. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the processor can selectively couple any input included in the group containing the first input device, the second input device, and the assistant input device, with any arm included in the group containing the first arm and the second arm so that the selected arm moves in response to manual movement of the selected input. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the processor moves the surgical instrument associated with one arm relative to the image capture device so that an image of the associated surgical instrument as shown in the display appears substantially connected with the selected input device of the master. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 3, wherein the processor moves the selected input device into alignment with the instrument associated with the selected arm when the arm is selected. 5. The robotic surgical system of claim 3, further comprising an assistant display visible from adjacent the arms so that the assistant can view the surgical site while removing and replacing the surgical instruments. 6. The robotic surgical system of claim 3, further comprising an assistant controller station including the assistant input device and an assistant display, wherein the processor moves a surgical instrument associated with the selected arm relative to the image capture device so that an image of the surgical instrument as shown in the assistant display appears substantially connected with the assistant input device. 7. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a third manipulator arm supporting an associated surgical instrument, wherein the third manipulator arm is coupleable with the assistant input device so that movement of the assistant input device effects movement of the associated surgical instrument. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 7, wherein the surgical instrument associated with the third arm comprises another image capture device, and wherein the surgical instrument associated with the first manipulator arm comprises an endoscope, the endoscope including the image capture device of the imaging system. 9. A robotic surgical system comprising: an imaging system transmitting an image from a first image capture device to a display; first, second, and third manipulator arms, each arm supporting an associated surgical instrument, the surgical instrument associated with the third arm comprising a second image capture device; a master controller disposed adjacent the display, the master having a first input device manipulatable by a first hand of an operator, and a second input device manipulatable by a second hand of the operator; and a processor operatively coupling each input device of the master to an associated arm so that movement of the input device effects movement of the associated surgical instrument, the processor transmitting arm movement signals to the arm in response to input commands from the input devices according to a first transformation when the display shows the image from the image capture device, and according to a second transformation when the display shows the image from the other image capture device, the processor deriving the first and second transformations so that images of the surgical instruments appear substantially connected to the input devices when the input devices move. 10. A robotic surgical method comprising: robotically moving first and second surgical instruments at a surgical site with first and second robotic manipulator arms by manipulating first and second input devices with first and second hands of an operator, respectively; displaying images of the first and second surgical instruments, and of a third surgical instrument, with a display; selectively associating the first input device with a third manipulator arm; deriving a transformation between the first input device and the third surgical arm; robotically moving the first input device into alignment with the image of the third instrument; robotically moving the third surgical instrument at the surgical site with the third manipulator arm according to the transformation by manipulating the first input device with the first hand of the operator, the transformation derived so that the image of the third surgical instrument appears substantially connected to the first input device when the first input device moves. 11. A robotic surgical system comprising: an imaging system transmitting an image from an image capture device to a display; first, second, and third manipulator arms, each arm supporting an associated surgical instrument; a master controller disposed adjacent the display, the master having a first input device manipulatable by a first hand of an operator, and a second input device manipulatable by a second hand of the operator; and a processor operatively coupling each input device of the master to an associated arm so that movement of the input device effects movement of the associated surgical instrument, the processor selectably coupling: the first input device to the first arm according to a first transformation, or the first input device to the second arm according to a second transformation; the processor deriving the first or second transformations so that images of the surgical instrument associated with the selectably coupled arm appear substantially connected to the first input device when the first input device moves. 12. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the third arm has a stationary configuration, the third arm inhibiting movement of the associated surgical instrument at the surgical site when the input devices move and the arm is in the stationary configuration. 13. The robotic surgical system of claim 12, wherein the surgical instrument associated with the third arm comprises a surgical tool selected from the group consisting of a stabilizer and a retractor. 14. The robotic surgical system of claim 13, wherein the surgical instrument associated with the third arm comprises a coronary tissue stabilizer for beating heart surgery. 15. The robotic surgical system of claim 14, wherein the stabilizer comprises two substantially aligned tissue engaging surfaces having ridges, each tissue engaging surface having an opening therethrough, the tissue engaging surfaces movable relative to each other substantially in-plane to define a stabilized tissue access opening therebetween. 16. The robotic surgical system of claim 12, wherein the third arm comprises a linkage having a plurality of joints and a brake system coupled to the joints, the brake system inhibiting articulation of the joints. 17. The robotic surgical system of claim 16, wherein the third arm has a passive configuration, the brake system allowing manual articulation of the arm in response to a passive configuration signal. 18. The robotic surgical system of claim 17, wherein the third arm comprises a passive manipulator, having a plurality of passive joints without actuators drivingly engaging the joints. 19. The robotic surgical system of claim 12, wherein the third arm further has a driven configuration, the third arm comprising a linkage with a plurality of joints and a plurality of actuators drivingly engaging the linkage to effect articulation of the joints so that the third arm moves the associated surgical instrument at the surgical site when the third arm is in the driven configuration. 20. The robotic surgical system of claim 11, wherein the imaging system comprises a fourth manipulator arm supporting the image capture device, the fourth manipulator arm comprising a linkage having a plurality of joints and a plurality of actuators drivingly engaging the linkage to effect articulation of the joints. 21. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the second and third arms each comprise a linkage with a plurality of joints and a plurality of actuators drivingly engaging the linkage to effect articulation of the joints, the processor coupling the master to the arms so that: the first arm can move the associated surgical instrument at the surgical site in response to movement of the first input device; and the second arm can move the associated surgical instrument in response to movement of the second input device. 22. The robotic surgical system of claim 21, further comprising at least one arm selector input coupled to the processor, the processor selectively decoupling the first arm from the first input device and operatively coupling the first input device with at least one member of the group consisting of the second arm, the third arm, and the fourth arm in response to an arm selection signal from the arm selector, the coupled arm moving in response to movement of the first input device. 23. The robotic surgical system of claim 22, wherein the processor selectively decouples the second arm from the second input device and operatively couples the second input device with at least one member of the group consisting of the first arm, the third arm, and the fourth arm in response to a signal from the arm selector, the coupled arm moving in response to movement of the second input device. 24. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the surgical instruments associated with the first and second arms comprise first and second end effectors for treating or manipulating tissue. 25. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the arms remain in a stationary configuration when not operatively associated with an input device, and when the operator performs surgical tasks with the coupled arms by manipulating the first and second input devices. 26. The robotic surgical system of claim 19, wherein the image capture device comprises a fourth surgical instrument, wherein each surgical instrument comprises an endoscopic instrument having an elongate shaft with a proximal end adjacent the manipulator and a distal end insertable into a patient through a minimally invasive surgical aperture. 27. The robotic surgical system of claim 26, the apertures comprising minimally invasive access sites separated across a body surface of the patient so as to define a pattern and a radially outward orientation extending from a center of the pattern, wherein the manipulators support the surgical instruments so that the proximal end of each shaft extends in the radially outward orientation from the pattern of the apertures. 28. The robotic surgical system of claim 27, wherein two of the surgical instruments comprise endoscopes, and wherein two of the surgical instruments comprise endoscopic surgical tools for manipulating or treating tissue, the manipulators supporting the instruments so that the minimally invasive surgical apertures associated with the endoscopes define a top and bottom of the pattern and the minimally invasive surgical apertures associated with the surgical tools define left and right sides of the pattern. 29. The robotic surgical system of claim 17, wherein the processor transmits movement signals to the master controller when the first arm is selectably coupled to the first input device so that the master controller robotically moves the first input device into alignment with the first instrument. 30. The robotic surgical system of claim 11, further comprising an assistant input device manipulatable by a hand of an assistant, wherein the processor can selectably associate one of the arms with the assistant input device, or with an input device of the master, so that the one arm moves in response to movement of the selected input device. 31. A robotic surgical method comprising: robotically moving first and second surgical instruments at a surgical site with first and second robotic manipulator arms by manipulating first and second input devices with first and second hands of an operator, respectively; selectively associating the first input device with a third manipulator arm supporting a third surgical instrument; moving the first input device into an orientation aligned with the orientation of the third surgical instrument; robotically moving a third surgical instruments at the surgical site with the third manipulator arm by manipulating the first input device with the first hand of the operator. 