A system for preventing contaminants and particulates from coming into contact with a back side of a workpiece as the workpiece is vacuum held on a chuck or robotic end effector.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for preventing particles and contaminants from contacting a back side of a workpiece, the method comprising the steps of: (a) venting a fluid into an evacuated vacuum path and creating a flow of fluid traveling from a vent port to a distal end of the vacuum path, the vacuum path being in fluid communication with a channel located beneath the back side of the workpiece while the workpiece is seated on a support surface; (b) filtering the fluid upstream of the channel to remove the particles and contaminants with a filter that is located along the vacuum path; and (c) impeding the flow of fluid within the vacuum path such that the flow rate of the fluid upstream of the filter is greater than the flow rate of the fluid downstream of the filter. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the filter in step (b) is located proximate to the distal end of the vacuum path. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the support surface is defined by a pair of spaced apart raised annular walls. 4. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein an evacuation channel is defined by the space located between the annular walls. 5. A method for preventing contaminants and particles from contacting a back side of a workpiece as the workpiece is vacuum held on an end effector of a workpiece handling robot, the workpiece handling robot having a vacuum path that provides fluid communication between a vent port and an evacuation channel within the end effector, the method comprising the steps of: (a) venting a fluid into an evacuated vacuum path and creating a flow of fluid traveling from the vent port to the evacuation channel; (b) filtering the fluid with an in-line filter located upstream of the evacuation channel to remove the particles and contaminants within the vacuum path; and (c) impeding the flow of fluid within the vacuum path such that the flow rate of the fluid upstream of the filter is greater than the flow rate of the fluid downstream of the filter. 6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the filter in said step (b) is located proximate to the evacuation channel. 7. A method for preventing contaminants and particles from contacting a back side of a workpiece as the workpiece is vacuum held on a chuck of a tool, the tool having a vacuum path between a vent port and an evacuation channel formed in the chuck, the method comprising the steps of: (a) venting a fluid into an evacuated vacuum path and creating a flow of fluid that travels substantially from the vent port to the evacuation channel; (b) filtering the fluid with a filter located upstream of the evacuation channel; and (c) impeding the flow of fluid such that the speed of the flow upstream of the filter is greater than the speed of the flow downstream of the filter. 8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein the filter in said step (b) is in-line with the vacuum path. 9. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the filter in said step (b) is located proximate to the evacuation channel. 10. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein the filter in said step (b) is located at a point remote from the vacuum path. 