A system and method for radiographic inspection of airfoil structure on aircraft includes a radiation source located on one side of the airfoil structure and an X-Y scanning device located on an opposing side of the airfoil structure. The X-Y scanning device is positioned to receive radiation from the radiation source. A radiation detector is mounted on the X-Y scanning device so as to be moveable relative to the airfoil structure along t two mutually orthogonal axes. In operation, the radiation detector is moved in a predetermined raster pattern while the radiation source is emitting radiation. This allows a large area to be inspected with single positioning of the X-Y scanning device, thereby improving throughput. The radiation detector converts impinging radiation into electrical signals, and a computer system processes the signals to generate radiographic images of the airfoil structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for radiographic inspection of airfoil structure on aircraft, said system comprising: a radiation source located on one side of said airfoil structure; an X-Y scanning device located on an opposing side of said airfoil structure, said X-Y scanning device being positioned to receive radiation from said radiation source; and a radiation detector mounted on said X-Y scanning device so as to be moveable relative to said airfoil structure along two mutually orthogonal axes. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said radiation detector converts impinging radiation into electrical signals. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising means for processing said signals and generating images from said signals. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for holding said X-Y scanning device in position relative to said airfoil structure. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for holding comprise a plurality of legs attached to said X-Y scanning device. 6. The system of claim 5 further comprising a suction cup mounted on each one of said legs. 7. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for holding comprise a crane or robotic device. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said X-Y scanning device comprises a rectangular frame, a first carriage slidingly mounted on said frame for movement along a first axis, and a second carriage slidingly mounted on said first carriage for movement along a second axis, and said radiation detector being mounted to said second carriage. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said radiation detector is mounted to said second carriage via a swivel mount. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein said frame is made of a semi-rigid material so as to conform to the contour of said airfoil structure. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein said X-Y scanning device is positioned so as to partially extend beyond an edge of said airfoil structure. 12. A system for radiographic inspection of airfoil structure on aircraft, said system comprising: a radiation source located on one side of said airfoil structure; an X-Y scanning device located on an opposing side of said airfoil structure, said X-Y scanning device being positioned to receive radiation from said radiation source and having a carriage that is moveable along two mutually orthogonal axes; a digital radiation detector that converts impinging radiation into electrical signals, said radiation detector being mounted on said carriage so as to be moveable relative to said airfoil structure along said two mutually orthogonal axes; and means for processing said signals and generating images from said signals. 13. The system of claim 12 further comprising means for holding said X-Y scanning device in position relative to said airfoil structure. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein said means for holding comprise a plurality of legs attached to said X-Y scanning device. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising a suction cup mounted on each one of said legs. 16. The system of claim 13 wherein said means for holding comprise a crane or robotic device. 17. The system of claim 12 wherein said X-Y scanning device comprises a rectangular frame that supports said carriage. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said radiation detector is mounted said carriage via a swivel mount. 19. The system of claim 17 wherein said frame is made of a semi-rigid material so as to conform to the contour of said airfoil structure. 20. The system of claim 12 wherein said X-Y scanning device is positioned so as to partially extend beyond an edge of said airfoil structure. 21. A method for radiographic inspection of airfoil structure on aircraft, said method comprising: locating a radiation source on one side of said airfoil structure; locating an X-Y scanning device on an opposing side of said airfoil structure, said X-Y scanning device being positioned to receive radiation from said radiation source; mounting a radiation detector on said X-Y scanning device so as to be moveable relative to said airfoil structure along two mutually orthogonal axes; causing said radiation source to emit radiation so as to irradiate said airfoil structure and said X-Y scanning device; and operating said X-Y scanning device to move said radiation detector in a predetermined raster pattern while said radiation source is emitting radiation. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said radiation detector is sequentially moved through said raster pattern. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein said radiation detector is continuously moved through said raster pattern. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein said X-Y scanning device is mounted to said airfoil structure. 25. The method of claim 21 wherein said X-Y scanning device is positioned so as to partially extend beyond an edge of said airfoil structure. 