A hair transplantation method and apparatus utilizes a stereotactic robot, which includes a robotic arm, having a hair follicle introducer associated with the robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A hair transplantation apparatus for implanting at least one hair follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle effector associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the hair follicle effector is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the hair follicle effector being moved and operated to implant the at least one hair follicle into a portion of the patient's scalp. 2. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hair follicle effector is a single hair follicle insertion device and includes a needle. 3. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hair follicle effector is a multiple hair follicle insertion device and includes multiple needles. 4. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, including a stereotactic video system adapted to be associated with the patient's scalp and adapted to identify at least one location on the scalp where the at least one hair follicle is to be implanted. 5. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 4, wherein the stereotactic video system includes a camera and a distance measuring device to measure the distance from the patient's scalp to the camera. 6. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hair follicle effector is a plug cutting device, the plug cutting device being adapted to remove a plug of the patient's scalp, the plug containing at least one hair follicle. 7. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 6, wherein the plug cutting device is a single hair follicle insertion device and includes a needle. 8. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hair follicle effector is a plug trimming device, the plug trimming device being adapted to trim a portion of a flap, removed from the patient's scalp, into a plurality of plugs of the patient's scalp, each plug containing at least one hair follicle. 9. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, including an immobilization device, adapted to be releaseably secured to the patient's head, for restraining the patient's head with respect to the robot. 10. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot and the immobilization device is a stereotactic frame. 11. A method for transplanting hair by implanting at least one hair follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp, the patient's scalp having a plurality of existing hair follicles comprising the steps of: providing a robot, the robot including at least one robotic arm, the at least one robotic arm having a first end; associating a hair follicle effector with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the hair follicle effector is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; loading the hair follicle effector with at least one existing hair follicle; disposing the first end of the robotic arm adjacent to the patient's scalp; moving the hair follicle effector toward the patient's scalp; and operating the hair follicle effector to implant the at least one existing hair follicle into a portion of the patient's scalp. 12. The method of claim 11, including the step of utilizing as the hair follicle effector, a single hair follicle insertion device which includes a needle. 13. The method of claim 11, including the step of utilizing as the hair follicle effector, multiple hair follicle insertion devices which includes multiple needles. 14. The method of claim 11, prior to implanting the at least one existing hair follicle including the steps of: providing a stereotactic video system; associating the stereotactic video system with the patient's scalp; and scanning the patient's scalp with the stereotactic video system to determine the locations of the existing hair follicles and the location of the patient's scalp in three dimensions. 15. The method of claim 14, including the steps of: utilizing a stereotactic video system which includes a camera and a distance measuring sensor; and measuring the distance from the patient's scalp to the camera while the patient's scalp is being scanned. 16. The method of claim 14, including the step of determining the angular disposition of the existing hair follicles with respect to the patient's scalp. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the hair follicle effector is a plug cutting device and prior to implanting the at least one existing hair follicle, including the steps of: disposing the first end of the at least one robotic arm and the plug cutting device adjacent the patient's scalp; and removing a plug of the patient's scalp, the plug containing at least one hair follicle. 18. The method of claim 17, including the step of utilizing a single hair follicle insertion device, which includes a needle, as the plug cutting device. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the hair follicle effector is a plug trimming device and prior to the implantation of the at least one existing hair follicle, including the steps of: disposing a flap containing a plurality of existing hair follicles previously removed from the patient's scalp, upon a support surface; and trimming the flap into a plurality of plugs, each plug containing at least one existing hair follicle. 20. The method of claim 19, including the step of utilizing a single hair follicle insertion device, which includes a needle, as the plug trimming device. 21. The method of claim 11, including the step of releaseably securing an immobilization device to the patient's head and restraining the patient's head with respect to the robot. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot and releaseably securing the immobilization device to the patient's head comprises releaseably securing a stereotactic frame to the patient's head. 23. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle from a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle effector associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the hair follicle effector is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the hair follicle effector being moved and operated to harvest the at least one hair follicle from a portion of the patient's scalp. 24. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 23, wherein a flap of the patient's scalp is removed from the patient, and the hair follicle effector is moved and operated to remove the at least one hair follicle from the flap. 25. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the hair follicle effector is a plug cutting device and, the plug cutting device is adapted to harvest a plug of the patient's scalp from the flap, the plug containing at least one hair follicle. 26. A method for transplanting hair by harvesting at least one hair follicle from a portion of a patient's scalp, the patient's scalp having a plurality of existing hair follicles comprising the steps of: providing a robot, the robot including at least one robotic arm, the at least one robotic arm having a first end; associating a hair follicle effector with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the hair follicle effector is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; disposing the first end of the robotic arm adjacent to the patient's scalp; moving the hair follicle effector toward the patient's scalp; and operating the hair follicle effector to harvest the at least one existing hair follicle from a portion of the patient's scalp. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein a flap of the patient's scalp is removed from the patient, and moving the hair follicle effector toward the patient's scalp comprises moving the hair follicle effector toward the flap, wherein the hair follicle effector is operated to harvest the at least one existing hair follicle from the flap. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the hair follicle effector is a plug cutting device and harvesting the at least one hair follicle from a portion of the patient's scalp comprises: moving the plug cutting device toward the flap; and operating the plug cutting device to harvest a plug of the patient's scalp from the flap, the plug containing at least one hair follicle. 