An apparatus for random access storage and retrieval of a plurality of microplates is provided. The apparatus includes a plurality of microplate racks arranged in a stack. Each of the racks is mechanically engaged with a plurality of support columns and each of the columns has a plurality of locking devices corresponding to the plurality of racks. The apparatus also includes a lift, coupled to the support columns, for moving the stack or a portion thereof, and a controller, coupled to the lift and the locking devices. The controller is responsive to a signal to access a desired rack or microplate to cause actuation of one or more of the locking devices corresponding to the rack adjacent to the desired rack or microplate, followed by actuation of the lift, thereby moving a portion of the stack a sufficient distance to allow access to the desired rack or microplate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for random access storage and retrieval of a plurality of microplates, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of microplate racks for storing microplates in assigned locations on said racks, said racks being arranged in a stack, each of said racks being mechanically engaged with a plurality of support columns for movement along said columns, each of said columns having a plurality of locking devices, corresponding to the plurality of racks, for locking selected racks to said columns; a lift, coupled to said support columns, for longitudinal movement of said columns; and a controller, coupled to said lift and locking devices, responsive to a signal to access a desired microplate location to cause actuation of one or more of said locking devices to lock the rack adjacent to the rack containing desired location, followed by actuation of the lift, thereby moving a portion of the stack a sufficient distance to allow access to the desired microplate location. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a transfer unit for moving selected microplates to and from the microplate racks, said transfer unit comprising an elevator; a crawler supported by said elevator and carrying a microplate gripper; and means for moving said crawler toward and away from said stack; whereby said elevator may position said crawler opposite the rack containing a desired microplate location and said craweler may be moved toward said stack to place a microplate in said desired location or retrieve a microplate from said location. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 in which: each rack includes a pair of parallel rack rails; the transport unit includes: a pair of transport unit rails supported on said elevator, said crawler being mounted on said transport unit rails for movement therealong toward and away from said stack, means for juxtaposing said transport unit rails with the rack rails of a rack having a selected microplate location, whereby said rack rails become extensions of said transport unit rails, and means for moving said crawler along said transport unit rails and said rack rails to position said gripper for access to the selected microplate location. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 in which said rails are toothed racks and said moving means includes pinions on said crawler that engaged the rack teeth. 5. The apparatus defined in claim 1 in which: said locking devices are plungers mounted on at least one of said columns; and each rack includes meanings forming a hole opposite a plunger associated with that rack; whereby actuation of a plunger causes insertion of a pin into the hole, thereby securing the rack against movement relative to the columns. 