A method for controlling movement of an automated machine. The movement is defined by a plurality of steps. First, a buffer of a predetermined size is defined. The buffer stores a current step and one or more previous steps in the movement of the automated machine. Then a current step in the movement of the automated machine is executed. Next, the buffer is checked to see if the current step executed in the movement of the automated machine movement is the same as a predetermined step of interest. If the current step is a predetermined step of interest, the buffer is checked to determine what at least one previous step was. If the current step was the step of interest, a new step is executed in the movement of the automated machine, the new step executed depending on what the at least one previous step was.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling movement of an automated machine, the movement defined by a plurality of steps, the method comprising: defining a buffer of a predetermined size, the buffer storing a current step and one or more previous steps in the movement of the automated machine; executing a current step in the movement of the automated machine; checking to see if the current step executed in the movement of the automated machine movement is the same as a predetermined step of interest; if the step is the predetermined step of interest, checking the buffer to determine what at least one previous step was; and if the step is the predetermined step of interest, executing a new step in the movement of the automated machine, the new step executed depending on what the at least one previous step was. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of defining a buffer of predetermined size further comprises defining a first in, first out buffer. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of executing a new step further comprises executing either a first sequence of new steps or a second sequence of new steps depending on what the at least one previous step was. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of executing a step further comprises executing a step in the movement of a robot arm in a load lock of a cluster tool. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising executing a next step in an original sequence of steps and updating the buffer if the current step is not the predetermined step of interest. 6. A system for controlling an automated machine comprising; a controller coupled to the automated machine, the controller receiving movement commands as a plurality of steps that place the automated machine into one of a plurality of states; a control computer coupled to the controller, the computer having a memory and a processor, the computer comprising: a buffer residing in the memory, the buffer storing a current step executed in the movement of the automated machine and a predetermined number of previous steps; and an automated control program running in conjunction with the processor, the automated control program operable to determine a next step to be executed from a choice of more than one step, based on the identity of a previous step and send the next step to the controller as a next movement command. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the automated control program checks the current step executed to determine if the current step matches a predetermined step of interest. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the automated control program chooses between two or more predetermined sequences of steps depending on identity of a previous step after the current step is determined to match the predetermined step of interest. 9. The system of claim 6 wherein the automated machine is a robot arm in a semiconductor processing tool. 10. The system of claim 6 wherein the buffer is a first in, first out buffer. 11. A method for controlling movement of a robot arm in a semiconductor processing tool comprising: defining a buffer of a predetermined size, the buffer storing the previous steps in the movement of the robot arm; executing a step in the movement of the robot arm; checking to see if the step executed in the movement of the robot arm is the same as a predetermined step of interest; checking the buffer to determine what at least one previous step was, if the step is the predetermined step of interest; and executing a new step in the movement of the robot arm, if the step is the predetermined step of interest, the new step executed depending on what the at least one previous step was. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of defining a buffer of predetermined size further comprises defining a first in, first out buffer. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of executing a new step further comprises executing either a first sequence of new steps or a second sequence of new steps depending on what the at least one previous step was. 14. The method of claim 11 further comprising executing a next step in an original sequence of steps and updating the buffer if the current step is not the predetermined step of interest. 15. The action of claim 11 wherein the robot arm is in a cluster tool. 16. A system for controlling a robot arm in a semiconductor processing tool comprising: a robot controller coupled to the robot arm, the robot controller receiving movement commands as a plurality of steps that place the robot arm into one of a plurality of states; and a control computer coupled to the robot controller, the control computer having a memory and a processor, the control computer comprising: a buffer residing in the memory, the buffer storing the current step executed in the movement of the robot arm and a predetermined number of previous steps; and a robot control program running in conjunction with the processor, the robot control program operable to determine the next step to be executed from a choice of more than one step based on the identity of a previous step. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the robot control program checks the current step executed to determine if the current step matches a predetermined step of interest. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein the robot control program chooses between two or more predetermined sequences of steps depending on identity of a previous step after the current step is determined to match the predetermined step of interest. 19. The system of claim 16 wherein the buffer is a first in, first out buffer. 20. The system of claim 16 wherein the robot arm is used to transport wafers to a cluster tool. 21. A control computer for controlling movement of an automated machine, the control computer having a memory and a processor, the control computer comprising: a buffer residing in the memory, the buffer storing current step executed in the movement of the automated machine and a predetermined number of previous steps; an automated control program running in conjunction with a processor, the automated control program operable to: formulate a signal indicative of the current step in the movement of the automated machine; send the signal to a robot controller; check the current step against one or more previous steps stored in the buffer; and determine a next step based on identity of one or more previous steps. 22. The control computer of claim 21 wherein the current step is checked to see if the current step is a step of interest prior to checking the step against one or more previous steps. 23. The control computer of claim 21 wherein the buffer is a first, in first out buffer. 24. The control computer of claim 21 wherein the automated control program checks the current step against one or more previous steps if the current step matches a step of interest. 25. A computer readable medium employing a software program for controlling movement of an automated machine, the software program comprising: program code configured to form a buffer, the buffer storing a current step executed in the movement of the automated machine and a predetermined number of previous steps; program code configured to determine if a current step is a step of interest; program code configured to access the buffer and determine identity of at least one previous step, if the current step is the step of interest; and program code configured to determine a next step to be executed from a choice of more than one step, based on the identity of the at least one previous step, if the current step is the step of interest. 26. The software program of claim 25 wherein the program code is configured to execute a next step in an original sequence of steps and update the buffer if the current step is not the predetermined step of interest. 