A calibration cartridge (20) for an automated media library (60) comprises a cartridge case (30) having a calibration surface (35) and an electromagnetic transmissive channel (40). The electromagnetic transmissive channel transmits electromagnetic radiation incident upon the calibration surface at a radiation reception port (42) in a first position of the calibration cartridge so that the electromagnetic radiation travels interiorily through the calibration case and exits from the calibration cartridge at a radiation exit aperture (44) in a second position on the calibration surface. The calibration cartridge is usable in an automated information storage library which comprises plural cartridge-accommodating cells (64) and a drive (68).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A calibration cartridge for an automated media library comprising: a cartridge case having a calibration surface; an electromagnetic transmissive channel which transmits electromagnetic radiation incident upon the calibration surface at a first position of the calibration cartridge so that the electromagnetic radiation travels interiorily through the calibration case and exits from the calibration cartridge at a radiation exit aperture at a second position on the calibration surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an electromagnetic conductor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an optical fiber. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is a light pipe. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture at the second position. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a rectangular aperture. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is situated in an interior of the cartridge case. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel has a first end which terminates at the first position on the calibration surface and a second end which directs electromagnetic radiation transmitted by the electromagnetic transmissive channel to the second position on the calibration surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the second end of the electromagnetic transmissive channel terminates interiorily in the cartridge case and directs the electromagnetic radiation to the radiation exit aperture. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture. 11. An automated information storage library comprising: plural cells, each cell adapted to accommodate a media cartridge, the media cartridge containing an information storage media; at least one drive for transducing information with respect to the information storage media of a selected media cartridge inserted into the drive; a cartridge transport system; a calibration cartridge transportable by the cartridge transport system for insertion into one of the plural cells and the drive, the calibration cartridge-comprising: a cartridge case having a calibration surface; an electromagnetic transmissive channel which transmits electromagnetic radiation incident upon the calibration surface at a first position of the calibration cartridge so that the electromagnetic radiation travels interiorily through the calibration case and exits from the calibration cartridge at a radiation exit aperture at a second position on the calibration surface. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the cartridge transport system comprises cartridge gripper which selectively inserts the calibration cartridge into a calibration position in one of the plural cells and the drive; the cartridge gripper having an electromagnetic emitter and an electromagnetic detector, the electromagnetic emitter being positioned to be essentially aligned with the first position of the calibration cartridge when the calibration cartridge is in the calibration position and the cartridge gripper is proximate the calibration position. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein a dispersion angle of the electromagnetic emitter has a predetermined relationship relative to the radiation exit aperture at the second position. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an electromagnetic conductor. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an optical fiber. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is a light pipe. 17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture at the second position. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a rectangular aperture. 19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is situated in an interior of the cartridge case. 20. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel has a first end which terminates at a first portion on the calibration surface and a second end which directs electromagnetic radiation transmitted by the electromagnetic transmissive channel to the second position on the calibration surface. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the second end of the electromagnetic transmissive channel terminates interiorily in the cartridge case and directs the electromagnetic radiation to the radiation exit aperture. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture. 23. A calibration cartridge for an automated media library comprising: a cartridge case having a calibration surface; electromagnetic transmission means for transmitting electromagnetic radiation incident upon the calibration surface at a first position of the calibration cartridge so that the electromagnetic radiation travels interiorily through the calibration case and exits from the calibration cartridge at a radiation exit aperture at a second position on the calibration surface. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an electromagnetic conductor. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an optical fiber. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is a light pipe. 27. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture at the second position. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a rectangular aperture. 29. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is situated in an interior of the cartridge case. 30. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel has a first end which terminates at the first position on the calibration surface and a second end which directs electromagnetic radiation transmitted by the electromagnetic transmissive channel to the second position on the calibration surface. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the second end of the electromagnetic transmissive channel terminates interiorily in the cartridge case and directs the electromagnetic radiation to the radiation exit aperture. 32. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture. 33. An automated information storage library comprising: plural cells, each cell adapted to accommodate a media cartridge, the media cartridge containing an information storage media; means for transducing information with respect to the information storage media of a selected media cartridge; a cartridge transport system; a calibration cartridge transportable by the cartridge transport system for insertion into one of the plural cells and the transducing means, the calibration cartridge comprising: a cartridge case having a calibration surface; electromagnetic transmission means for transmitting electromagnetic radiation incident upon the calibration surface at a first position of the calibration cartridge so that the electromagnetic radiation travels interiorily through the calibration case and exits from the calibration cartridge at a radiation exit aperture at a second position on the calibration surface. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the cartridge transport system comprises cartridge gripper which selectively inserts the calibration cartridge into a calibration position in one of the plural cells and the transducing means; the cartridge gripper having an electromagnetic emitter and an electromagnetic detector, the electromagnetic emitter being positioned to be essentially aligned with the first position of the calibration cartridge when the calibration cartridge is in the calibration position, and the cartridge gripper is proximate the calibration position. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein a dispersion angle of the electromagnetic emitter has a predetermined relationship relative to the radiation exit aperture at the second position. 36. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an electromagnetic conductor. 37. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is an optical fiber. 38. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is a light pipe. 39. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture at the second position. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a rectangular aperture. 41. Thec apparatus of claim 33, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel is situated in an interior of the cartridge case. 42. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the electromagnetic transmissive channel has a first end which terminates at the first position on the calibration surface and a second end which directs electromagnetic radiation transmitted by the electromagnetic transmissive channel to the second position on the calibration surface. 43. The apparatus of claim 42, wherein the second end of the electromagnetic transmissive channel terminates interiorily in the cartridge case and directs the electromagnetic radiation to the radiation exit aperture. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein the radiation exit aperture is a quadrilateral-shaped aperture. 45. For use in an automated information storage library having a drive for transducing information relative to information storage media contained in a media cartridge, a method comprising: using a cartridge gripper to transport a calibration cartridge to a calibration position whereat the calibration cartridge is inserted into one of a cartridge-accommodating cell of the library and a drive; emitting electromagnetic radiation from the cartridge gripper incident upon the calibration cartridge; transmitting the electromagnetic radiation emitted from the cartridge gripper through an interior portion of the calibration cartridge to a radiation exit aperture of the calibration cartridge; using the electromagnetic radiation existing from the radiation exit aperture of the calibration cartridge to ascertain a spatial description of the calibration position. 46. The method of claim 45, further comprising using a electromagnetic radiation channel to transmit the electromagnetic radiation through the calibration cartridge. 47. The method of claim 46, further comprising using an optical fiber to transmit the electromagnetic radiation through the calibration cartridge. 48. The method of claim 46, further comprising using a light pipe to transmit the electromagnetic radiation through the calibration cartridge. 49. The method of claim 45, further comprising detecting at the cartridge gripper the electromagnetic radiation emitted from the radiation exit aperture of the calibration cartridge to ascertain the spatial description of the calibration position. 50. The method of claim 45, further comprising translating the cartridge gripper in a first direction to locate a first direction coordinate of the calibration position. 51. The method of claim 50, further comprising translating the cartridge gripper in a first direction to locate a first direction coordinate of a center of the radiation exit aperture. 52. The method of claim 50, further comprising translating the cartridge gripper in a second direction to locate a second direction coordinate of the calibration position. 53. The method of claim 50, further comprising translating the cartridge gripper in a second direction to locate a second direction coordinate of a center of the radiation exit aperture. 54. The method of claim 50, further comprising: emitting the electromagnetic radiation from the cartridge gripper upon a radiation reception port of the calibration cartridge; and detecting at a detector of the cartridge gripper transitions in the electromagnetic radiation emitted from the radiation exit aperture of the calibration cartridge to ascertain the spatial description of the calibration position. 55. The method of claim 54, further comprising emitting the electromagnetic radiation from the cartridge gripper with a sufficiently large dispersion angle whereby the radiation reception port of the calibration cartridge remains irradiated as the cartridge gripper is translated through a range of positions in the first direction, at some position in the range the detector of the cartridge gripper receiving electromagnetic radiation emitted from the radiation exit aperture of the calibration cartridge and at other positions of the range the detector not receiving electromagnetic radiation emitted from the radiation exit aperture of the calibration cartridge. 56. The method of claim 45, wherein the spatial description comprises spatial coordinates of the calibration position. 