A multipoint inspection system for evaluating manufactured assemblies includes a robotic arm and a robot controller for controlling the robotic arm. A camera is mounted to an end of the robotic arm and includes a camera controller for capturing images. The robot controller is in communication with the camera controller and the robot controller causes the robotic arm to position the camera at a first inspection point. The camera controller then causes the camera to capture a first inspection point image of a manufactured assembly at the first inspection point. The robotic controller then causes the robotic arm to position the camera at a next inspection point where the camera controller then causes the camera to capture a next inspection point image of the manufactured assembly at the next inspection point.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multipoint inspection system for evaluating manufactured assemblies, the system comprising: a robot including a robotic arm and a robot controller for controlling the robotic arm; a camera mounted to an end of the robotic arm, the camera including a camera controller for capturing images; and a central controller in communication with the robot controller and the camera controller, the central controller providing a positioning signal to the robot controller and a capture image signal to the camera controller, the robot controller causing the robotic arm to position the camera at a first inspection point in response to the positioning signal, the camera controller causing the camera to capture a first inspection point image of a manufactured assembly at the first inspection point and provide an indication to the central controller as to whether the first inspection point image was acceptable, the robotic controller then causing the robotic arm to position the camera at a next inspection point, wherein the camera controller then causes the camera to capture a next inspection point image of the manufactured assembly at the next inspection point and provide an indication to the central controller as to whether the next inspection point image was acceptable. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is at least a two-axis robotic arm. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the robotic arm is one of a three-axis to a six-axis robotic arm. 4. The system of claim 1, further including: a system controller in communication with the central controller, wherein the system controller provides a signal to the central controller that indicates which of a plurality of manufactured assemblies is to be inspected. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the manufactured assembly is an automotive seat assembly. 6. A multipoint inspection system for evaluating manufactured assemblies, the system comprising: a robotic arm and a robot controller for controlling the robotic arm; and a camera mounted to an end of the robotic arm, the camera including a camera controller for capturing images, wherein the robot controller is in communication with the camera controller, the robot controller causing the robotic arm to position the camera at a first inspection point, the camera controller causing the camera to capture a first inspection point image of a manufactured assembly at the first inspection point, the robotic controller then causing the robotic arm to position the camera at a next inspection point where the camera controller then causes the camera to capture a next inspection point image of the manufactured assembly at the next inspection point. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the robot controller and the camera controller are implemented within a single controller. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the robotic arm is at least a two-axis robotic arm. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the robotic arm is one of a three-axis to a six-axis robotic arm. 10. The system of claim 6, wherein the manufactured assembly is an automotive seat assembly. 11. The system of claim 6, wherein the camera controller provides the first inspection point image and the next inspection point image to the robot controller which evaluates the images to determine whether the manufactured assembly is acceptable. 12. The system of claim 6, wherein the camera controller evaluates the first inspection point image and the next inspection point image and provides one or more indications to the robot controller as to whether the manufactured assembly is acceptable. 13. The system of claim 6, wherein the robot controller communicates with the camera controller through a central controller. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the camera controller provides the first inspection point image and the next inspection point image to the central controller which evaluates the images to determine whether the manufactured assembly is acceptable. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the camera controller evaluates the first inspection point image and the next inspection point image and provides one or more indications to the central controller as to whether the manufactured assembly is acceptable. 16. A multipoint inspection system for evaluating manufactured assemblies, the system comprising: a robot including a robotic arm and a robot controller for controlling the robotic arm; a camera mounted to an end of the robotic arm, the camera including a camera controller for capturing images; a central controller in communication with the robot controller and the camera controller, the central controller providing a positioning signal to the robot controller and a capture image signal to the camera controller, the robot controller causing the robotic arm to position the camera at a first inspection point in response to the positioning signal, the camera controller causing the camera to capture a first inspection point image of a manufactured assembly at the first inspection point and provide an indication to the central controller as to whether the first inspection point image was acceptable, the robotic controller then causing the robotic arm to position the camera at a next inspection point, wherein the camera controller then causes the camera to capture a next inspection point image of the manufactured assembly at the next inspection point and provide an indication to the central controller as to whether the next inspection point image was acceptable; and a system controller in communication with the central controller, wherein the system controller provides a signal to the central controller that indicates which of a plurality of manufactured assemblies is to be inspected. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the robotic arm is at least a two-axis robotic arm. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the robotic arm is one of a three-axis to a six-axis robotic arm. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the manufactured assembly is an automotive seat assembly. 20. A method for performing multipoint inspection of a manufactured assembly, the method comprising the steps of: positioning a robotic arm that includes a camera attached to an end of the robotic arm such that the camera is at a first inspection point; capturing a first inspection point image of a manufactured assembly at the first inspection point; determining whether the first inspection point image was acceptable; positioning the camera at a next inspection point; capturing a next inspection point image of the manufactured assembly at the next inspection point; and determining whether the next inspection point image was acceptable. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the robotic arm is one of a two-axis to a six-axis robotic arm. 