An apparatus and method are provided for contacting at least two chemical species, comprising a support plate having a channel for receiving a mobile chemical species and a fiber, having a second chemical species immobilized thereon, disposed on the support plate. At least a portion of the fiber is exposed to the channel such that the mobile chemical species is capable of contacting the second chemical species. An apparatus and method for reading the fiber array, an apparatus and method for making the fiber array, and methods of using the fiber array of the present invention are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device of contacting at least two chemical species, comprising: a support plate comprising a channel capable of receiving a mobile chemical species; and a fiber having an immobilized chemical species disposed along a portion of said fiber, wherein said fiber is disposed on said support plate across a width of said channel, such that said portion of said fiber is exposed to said channel. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said fiber is an optical fiber. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of said channel has a curved bottom surface. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein said curved bottom surface has a reflective coating. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein said support plate further comprises a plurality of channels that are not in fluid communication with one another and where each of said channels is capable of receiving a mobile chemical species therein, and further comprising a plurality of fibers disposed on said support plate across said channels, where each of said fibers, has an immobilized chemical species disposed along a portion of each of said fibers, and wherein said portion of each of said fibers is exposed to one of said channels, thereby forming a matrix of contact positions between each of said portions and each of said channels. 6. The device of claim 5 further comprising: a light source for producing light; and a focusing lens for directing said light to an end of at least one of said fibers. 7. The device of claim 6 further comprising a motion device connected to said light source and said focusing lens to move said light source and said focusing lens relative to said plurality of fibers, such that an end of each of said fibers receives said light from said focusing lens. 8. The device of claim 6 further comprising a motion device connected to said support plate to move said support plate relative to said light source and said focusing lens, such that an end of each of said fibers receives said light from said focusing lens. 9. The device of claim 5 further comprising a plurality of conductive contacts attached to said support plate wherein each of said conductive contacts is separately in contact with an end of each of said fibers, and wherein each of said fibers is conductive. 10. The device of claim 9 further comprising a power supply electrically connected to at least one of said conductive contacts. 11. The device of claim 10 further comprising a switching device electrically connected to said power supply and to each of said conductive contacts, wherein said switching device allows power to be supplied sequentially to each of said conductive contacts. 12. The device of claim 5 further comprising a fluid dispensing device positioned adjacent said support plate, wherein said fluid dispensing device is capable of releasing the mobile chemical species into at least one of said channels. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein said fluid dispensing device has a plurality of dispenser openings wherein each of said dispenser openings is aligned with one of said channels and further comprising a motion device for moving said fluid dispensing device relative to said support plate. 14. The device of claim 5 further comprising a plurality of channel inlet ports, each fluidly connected to one of said channels. 15. The device of claim 14 wherein said plurality of channel inlet ports each has an opening for receiving the mobile chemical species that is larger than the cross-sectional area of one of said channels. 16. The device of claim 14 further comprising a plurality of channel outlet ports, each fluidly connected to one of said plurality of channels. 17. The device of claim 5 further comprising a clear cover plate. 18. A base of a fiber array, comprising: a support plate comprising a channel configured to receive a mobile chemical species; and a fiber connector configured to couple a fiber having an immobilized chemical species disposed along a portion of said fiber, across a width of said support plate to expose said portion of the fiber to said channel. 19. The base of claim 18, wherein said support plate further comprises: a plurality of channels configured to receive the mobile chemical species, and wherein all of said channels are aligned substantially parallel to one another; and a plurality of fiber connectors configured to couple a plurality of fibers to said support plate to expose a portion of each of said fibers to one of said channels, and wherein all of said fibers are aligned substantially parallel to one another. 20. The base of claim 18, further comprising: a light source capable of producing light; a focusing lens configured to direct light produced from said light source to an end of a fiber; and a photo-detector disposed adjacent said portion of said fiber, where said photo-detector is capable of detecting excitation light emitted from a mobile chemical species bound to an immobilized chemical species on said portion of said fiber. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said photo-detector further comprises a detector optic connected to said photo-detector, where said photo-detector is capable of receiving excitation light emitted from the mobile chemical species bound to the immobilized chemical species on the fiber. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said detector optic comprises a fiber optic having a diameter greater than that of the fiber. 23. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said focusing lens comprises a cylindrical lens. 24. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a plurality of said photo-detectors that are capable of receiving excitation light emitted from a mobile chemical species bound to an immobilized chemical species on the fiber. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 further comprising a motion device for moving said support plate such that an end of each of the fibers receives said light from said focusing lens. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein at least one of said channels has a curved bottom surface. 27. The apparatus of claim 20 further comprising a temperature control device for controlling the temperature of the fiber. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said temperature control device changes the temperature of the fiber over a predetermined range of temperature such that the temperature of the fiber will pass through an optimum temperature for binding of a mobile and an immobilized chemical species. 29. An apparatus for contacting at least two chemical species, comprising: a wheel having a perimeter sidewall configured to hold a fiber having an immobilized chemical species disposed along portion of said fiber; and a container capable of receiving a mobile chemical species and at least a portion of said perimeter sidewall, such that in use when said wheel and said container are rotated relative to one another, said immobilized chemical species contacts the mobile chemical species. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising a fiber having an immobilized chemical species disposed along a portion of said fiber which is disposed on said perimeter sidewall. 31. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said wheel defines a center wheel aperture, and further comprising: a wheel rotation device; and a rotational coupler coupled at its first end to said wheel rotation device and coupled at its second end to said wheel aperture. 32. The apparatus of claim 29 wherein said container defines a cavity having a cavity sidewall that is configured to define an annular chamber gap between said cavity sidewall and said perimeter sidewall. 33. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein said chamber gap is about 1 mm. 34. The apparatus of claim 30 further comprising a container rotation device for rotatably coupling with said container. 35. The apparatus of claim 30 further comprising a heating element thermally coupled to said container. 36. The apparatus of claim 30 further comprising: a light source for emitting light to an end of said fiber; and a light detecting device for receiving excitation light emitted from said fiber. 37. The apparatus of claim 36 wherein said light evaluating system further comprises a light guiding device comprising: a first focusing lens positioned between said light source and said fiber; a second focusing lens positioned between said one of said fibers and said light detecting device; and a focusing mirror configured to reflect light toward said light detecting device. 38. The apparatus of claim 30 further comprising: a rotational coupler; a wheel assembly comprising a plurality of said wheels coupled to said rotational coupler; a multi-cavity container defining a plurality of cavities, each of said cavities capable of receiving at least a portion of one of said wheels; and a wheel rotation device coupled to said rotational coupler. 39. An apparatus for presenting a chemical species for reaction, comprising: a wheel having a perimeter sidewall; a fiber disposed on said perimeter sidewall in a direction parallel to a longitudinal axis of said wheel; and an immobilized chemical species disposed on said fiber. 40. A system for reading a microchip comprising: a plurality of optical fibers each having a polynucleotide probe immobilized thereon and each having a first end; a support for said plurality of fibers having a plurality of parallel and fluidly independent channels for receiving a first analyte, wherein said plurality of fibers are arranged substantially parallel on said support and substantially normal to, and across the width of, said plurality of channels, thereby forming a matrix of contact positions between each of said fibers and each of said plurality of channels, such that each of said fibers is contacted by said first analyte; a light source for generating light; a focusing lens for focusing said light on an end of each of said fibers; a light detecting device positioned to receive light emitted from each of said contact positions; and a motion device connected to said support to align each of said ends with said light. 