An upper arm portion and a lower arm portion are connected to each other by a substantially cylindrical elbow joint, and are bendable between an extended position in which they are extended into a substantially straight line and a bent position in which they are bent forwards from the extended position. The position of an axis of the elbow joint is offset forwards from the center of the width of the upper and lower arm portions, and slants inclined toward the elbow joint are formed on rear surfaces of the upper and lower arm portions connected to the elbow joint. Thus, when the lower arm portion is turned toward the bent position, a foreign matter can be prevented from being sandwiched between the upper and lower arm portion at a location in front of the elbow joint by displacing the position of the axis of the elbow joint forwards. In addition, when the lower arm portion is turned rearwards toward the extended position, a foreign matter can be prevent from being sandwiched between the upper and lower arm portion at a location in the rear of the elbow joint by forming the slants.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An arm structure of a human-type robot in which an upper arm portion and a lower arm portion are connected to each other by a substantially cylindrical elbow joint so that they can be bent, said upper and lower arm portions each having a width larger than the diameter of said elbow joint as viewed in a direction of an axis of the elbow joint, and being bendable in a limited range between an extended position in which they are extended into a substantially straight line and a bent position in which they are bent in one direction from said extended position, wherein the position of the axis of said elbow joint is offset in said one direction from the center of the width of said upper and lower arm portions, and a lower end of said upper arm portion and an upper end of said lower arm portion, which are connected to the elbow joint, are decreased in width toward said elbow joint on a side opposite from said one direction. 2. An arm structure of a human-type robot according to claim 1, wherein said elbow joint comprises therein stoppers which abut against each other in order to restrict a range within which said elbow joint can be bent. 3. An arm structure of a human-type robot according to claim 1, wherein each of said upper arm portion and said lower arm portion comprises a stopper which abuts against the other stopper in order to restrict a range within which said elbow joint can be bent. 