The present invention provides a weld monitoring system and method that monitors and automatically coordinates information on the quality of each weld in a workpiece having one or more welds. In particular, each weld in the workpiece is automatically analyzed at the time it is being made using weld sensors such as those that measure current, wire feed, voltage, and gas flow to produce information on the quality of the weld. Using this information, the welds are sorted, displayed, and logged with workpiece and weld number information which is provided to the operator in real-time and stored in a computer for access at a later time for quality control or other purposes. Therefore, the system and method enables welds of a quality less than a pre-determined quality for the weld to be identified in real-time and information concerning any particular weld to be accessed at a later time.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for welding of components of a workpiece with multiple arc welds in a fixture using a consumable electrode wire, melting the wire by heat from an electric arc having a current and voltage which comprises: (a) providing a system with the fixture having (i) one or more weld sensor means for determining a weld count and for detecting a quality of each weld on the workpiece on the fixture for welding the workpiece; (ii) a program in a computer to continuously monitor an output from the one or more weld sensor means and provide weld data in the computer wherein the weld data includes a number of the weld on the workpiece and the quality of the weld; and (iii) a switch means connected to the computer for starting a period during which the multiple welds are counted and monitored and then completed and for terminating the monitoring; (b) placing components which form the workpiece in the fixture, welding the workpiece with the multiple welds while counting each weld and determining the quality of each weld; and (c) removing the workpiece from the fixture, wherein the program in the computer provides monitoring of each of the multiple welds by means of the one or more weld sensor means between the starting and terminating of the monitoring by the switch means. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the weld sensor means is selected from the group consisting of a sensor that measures the voltage of the arc, a sensor that measures the current between the components of the workpiece and the wire being welded, a sensor that measures the rate of gas flow, and a sensor that measures a rate of feed of the wire to the arc. 3. The method claim 1, wherein the multiple welds are performed as simultaneous multiple welds. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple welds are performed in series. 5. The method of claim 1, 2, 3, or 4, wherein the welding is performed manually. 6. The method of claim 1, 2, 3, or 4, wherein the welding is performed by computer controlled robotic welders. 7. The method of claim 1, 2, 3, or 4, wherein the program in the computer provides a completion or fault signal for each of the multiple welds. 8. The method of claim 1, 2, 3, or 4, wherein the program in the computer provides a completion or fault signal for each of the multiple welds with a display of the workpiece and the multiple welds on a computer display screen so that individual welds of the multiple welds are shown as completed or having the fault. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the switch means is activated or deactivated as a result of opening or closing of a holding means on the fixture for holding the component parts during the welding. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein in addition the program transfers the weld data to a second computer system programmed for receiving a series of weld data for multiples of the workpieces and for selective analysis of the weld data. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second computer has a computer display screen which provides a visual display, a printer which provides a printout, or both of the weld data for each of the multiple of the workpieces. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the system has a false arc sensor for detecting false arc starts and wherein in step (b), when the weld is detected by the false arc sensor as a false arc, the weld is not counted and is not assigned a number and the quality of the weld is not determined. 13. A system for monitoring welding of components of a workpiece with multiple arc welds in a fixture using a consumable electrode wire, melting the wire by heat from an electric arc having a current and voltage which comprises: (a) one or more weld sensor means to be mounted on equipment for the welding; (b) a computer having preset weld data for a sequence of welds for the workpiece wherein the preset weld data includes a number indicating a position of the weld in the sequence of welds and weld information for the weld and with a program to continuously monitor output from the one or more weld sensor means, to provide weld data to the computer wherein the weld data includes a number of the weld for the workpiece and a quality of the weld, to associate weld data of the weld with preset weld data by matching the number of the weld from the weld data with the number in the preset weld data and to compare the quality of the weld in the weld data to the weld information for the weld in the preset weld data; and (c) switch means connected to the computer for starting a period during which the multiple welds are detected by the one or more weld sensor means and counted and monitored by the computer and for terminating the period, wherein the system is used with a fixture with a holding means for welding the components into the workpiece and wherein the program monitors each of the welds for a fault by means of the one or more weld sensor means between the starting and terminating of the monitoring by the switch means. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the weld sensor means is selected from the group consisting of a sensor that measures the voltage of the arc, a sensor that measures the current between the components of the workpiece and the wire being welded, a sensor that measures the rate of gas flow, and a sensor that measures a rate of feed of the wire to the arc. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the switch means is activated or deactivated as a result of opening or closing of a holding means on the fixture for holding the components during the welding. 16. The system of claim 13, adapted for monitoring welds produced by one or more computer controlled robots for the welding. 17. The system claim 13, wherein the computer provides a weld completion or fault display on a computer display screen. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer provides a weld completion or fault display on a computer display screen with a display of the workpiece and the multiple welds so that individual welds are shown as completed or with the fault. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the switch means are started and stopped by opening and closing the holding means which are clamps. 20. The system of claim 13, wherein in addition a second computer system is provided and programmed for receiving a series of weld data for multiples of the workpieces and for selective analysis of the weld data. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the second computer has a computer display screen which provides a visual display, a printer which provides a printout, or both of the weld data for each of the multiples of the workpieces. 22. In a system for monitoring, in a welding operation, quality of multiple welds on a workpiece using one or more weld sensor means at the location of each of the multiple welds wherein the one or more weld sensor means provide information relating to a number of each weld and the quality of each weld as it is being made on the workpiece, the improvement comprising: (a) a control means in the system, which determines the start of the multiple welds on the workpiece and the end of the multiple welds on the workpiece or measures a duration of time the workpiece is to be acted upon in the welding operation; and (b) a computer in the system with a program which counts each weld and assigns each weld a number and which monitors the multiple welds on the workpiece between the start and the end and coordinates information relating to the quality of each weld in the multiple welds with a computer display screen which displays the information. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the multiple welds are monitored by the system simultaneously. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the multiple welds are monitored in the system in series. 25. The system of claim 22, 23, or 24, wherein the monitoring is where the welding is manual. 26. The system of claim 22, 23, or 24, wherein the monitoring is of welds made by one or more computer controlled robotic welders. 27. The system of claim 22, 23, or 24, wherein the program in the computer provides a completion or fault signal for each of the multiple welds. 28. The system of claim 22, 23, or 24, wherein the program in the computer provides a completion or fault signal for each of the multiple welds with a display of the workpiece and the multiple welds on a computer display screen so that individual welds of the multiple welds are shown as completed or having the fault on the computer display screen. 29. The system of claim 22, wherein in addition the program transfers the weld data to a second computer system programmed for receiving a series of weld data for the workpiece and for selective analysis of the weld data. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the second computer has a second computer display screen which provides a visual display of the weld data, a printer which provides a printout of the weld data, or both of the workpiece. 31. The system of claim 22, wherein the weld sensor means is selected from the group consisting of a sensor that measures the voltage of the arc, a sensor that measures the current between the components of the workpiece and the wire being welded, a sensor that measures the rate of gas flow, and a sensor that measures a rate of feed of the wire to the arc. 32. The system of claim 22, wherein the computer includes a sequence of welds for the workpiece wherein for each weld in the sequence of welds the computer includes preset weld data including a number indicating a position of the weld in the sequence of welds and weld information for the weld and wherein the program associates weld data of the weld with preset weld data by matching the number of the weld from the weld data with the number in the preset weld data and wherein the program compares the quality of the weld in the weld data to the weld information for the weld in the preset weld data. 33. A system for monitoring welding of components of a workpiece with multiple arc welds in a fixture using a consumable electrode wire, melting the wire by heat from an electric arc having a current and voltage in real-time and for later analysis which comprises: (a) one or more weld sensor means to be mounted on equipment for the welding; (b) a computer with a program to continuously monitor output from the one or more weld sensor means and to provide weld data to the computer wherein the weld data includes a number of the weld on the workpiece and a quality of the weld; and (c) switch means connected to the computer for starting a period during which the multiple welds are detected by the one or more weld sensor means and counted and monitored by the computer and for terminating the period, wherein the system is used with a fixture with a holding means for welding the components into the workpiece and wherein the program monitors each of the welds for a fault by means of the one or more weld sensor means between the starting and terminating of the monitoring by the switch means, which provides the monitoring in real-time and for later analysis. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the weld sensor means is selected from the group consisting of a sensor that measures the voltage of the arc, a sensor that measures the current between the components of the workpiece and the wire being welded, a sensor that measures the rate of gas flow, and a sensor that measures a rate of feed of the wire to the arc. 35. The system of claim 33, wherein the switch means is activated or deactivated as a result of opening or closing of a holding means on the fixture for holding the components during the welding. 36. The system of claim 33, adapted for monitoring welds produced by one or more computer controlled robots for the welding. 37. The system claim 33, wherein the computer provides a weld completion or fault display on a computer display screen. 38. The system of claim 33, wherein the computer provides a weld completion or fault display on a computer display screen with a display of the workpiece and the multiple welds so that individual welds are shown as completed or with the fault. 39. The system of claim 33, wherein the switch means are started and stopped by opening and closing the holding means which are clamps. 40. The system of claim 33, wherein in addition a second computer system is provided and programmed for receiving a series of weld data for multiples of the workpieces and for selective analysis of the weld data. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the second computer has a computer display screen which provides a visual display, a printer which provides a printout, or both of the weld data for each of the multiples of the workpieces. 42. A method for welding of components of a workpiece with multiple arc welds in a fixture using a consumable electrode wire, melting the wire by heat from an electric arc having a current and voltage which comprises: (a) providing a system with the fixture having (i) one or more weld sensor means for determining a weld count and for detecting a quality of each weld on the workpiece on the fixture for welding the workpiece; (ii) a program in a computer to continuously monitor the output from the one or more weld sensor means and provide weld data in the computer wherein the weld data includes a number of the weld on the workpiece and a quality for the weld; and (iii) a switch means connected to the computer for starting a period during which the multiple welds are counted and monitored and then completed and for terminating the monitoring; (b) placing components which form the workpiece in the fixture, welding the workpiece with the multiple welds while counting each weld and assigning each weld a number and determining the quality of each weld; and (c) removing the workpiece from the fixture, wherein the program in the computer provides monitoring in real-time and for later analysis of each of the multiple welds by means of the one or more weld sensor means between the starting and terminating of the monitoring by the switch means. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the weld sensor means is selected from the group consisting of a sensor that measures the voltage of the arc, a sensor that measures the current between the components of the workpiece and the wire being welded, a sensor that measures the rate of gas flow, and a sensor that measures a rate of feed of the wire to the arc. 44. The method claim 42, wherein the multiple welds are performed as simultaneous multiple welds. 45. The method of claim 42, wherein the multiple welds are performed in series. 46. The method of claim 42, 43, 44, or 45, wherein the welding is performed manually. 47. The method of claim 42, 43, 44, or 45, wherein the welding is performed by computer controlled robotic welders. 48. The method of claim 42, 43, 44, or 45, wherein the program in the computer provides a completion or fault signal for each of the multiple welds. 49. The method of claim 42, 43, 44, or 45, wherein the program in the computer provides a completion or fault signal for each of the multiple welds with a display of the workpiece and the multiple welds on a computer display screen so that individual welds of the multiple welds are shown as completed or having the fault. 50. The method of claim 42, wherein the switch means is activated or deactivated as a result of opening or closing of a holding means on the fixture for holding the component parts during the welding. 51. The method of claim 42, wherein in addition the program transfers the weld data to a second computer system programmed for receiving a series of weld data for multiples of the workpieces and for selective analysis of the weld data. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the second computer has a computer display screen which provides a visual display, a printer which provides a printout, or both of the weld data for each of the multiple of the workpieces. 53. A method for monitoring multiple arc welds performed on components to form a workpiece which comprises the steps of: (a) providing weld sensors for counting the welds and for detecting a quality of each weld on the workpiece; (b) providing a computer having preset weld data for a sequence of welds for the workpiece, the preset weld data including a number for each weld identifying a position of the weld in the sequence of welds and weld information for each weld; (c) providing a program for use with the computer to continuously monitor an output of the weld sensors and to provide weld data for each weld, the weld data including a number of the weld identifying when the weld was performed on the workpiece and information about the quality of the weld; (d) a switch connected to the computer for starting and terminating a period during which the multiple welds are performed on the workpiece; (e) positioning the components which form the workpiece; (f) activating the switch to start the period and activate the program; (g) welding the components together to form the workpiece wherein during the welding the program counts and monitors the welds and provides weld data for the welds; (h) associating the weld data of the weld with preset weld data by matching the number of the weld from the weld data with the number in the preset weld data; and (i) comparing the quality of the weld in the weld data to the associated weld information for the weld in the preset weld data. 