Robot arm (16) end effectors (10, 110, 210) of this invention rapidly and cleanly transfer semiconductor wafers (12) between a wafer cassette (14) and a processing station. The end effectors include fiber optic light transmission sensors (90, 102, 202, 214) for determining various wafer surface, edge, thickness, tilt, and location parameters. The sensors provide robot arm extension and elevation positioning data supporting methods of rapidly and accurately placing and retrieving a wafer from among a stack of closely spaced wafers stored in the wafer cassette. The methods effectively prevent accidental contact between the end effector and the wafers while effecting clean, secure gripping of the wafer.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of determining whether an end effector implemented to have a controllable supination angle is positioned in a common datum plane of a specimen stored on or in a container, the specimen having a thickness dimension defined by first and second opposed major surfaces of the specimen, comprising: providing an end effector having a body operatively connected to a light source and a light receiver, the light source and light receiver having spaced-apart respective source light path and receiver light path openings between which a light beam propagates along a straight line light transmission pathway; causing the specimen to intersect the light transmission pathway and thereby interrupt the light beam; dithering the end effector through multiple supination angles and imparting relative motion between the specimen and the body in either of first and second opposite measurement directions along a travel path that is substantially perpendicular to the straight line light transmission pathway; for each of the supination angles, recording for the first and second measurement directions of relative motion along the travel path respective first and second position information corresponding to spatial coordinate positions at which the light transmission pathway is restored; and using the recorded first and second position information to determine a minimum thickness dimension defined by the first and second opposed major surfaces of the specimen, the minimum thickness dimension indicating the supination angle at which the end effector and specimen are in a common datum plane. 2. The method of claim 1, in which the first and second opposed major surfaces of the specimen are substantially planar and generally parallel to each other. 3. The method of claim 2, in which the specimen is a semiconductor wafer. 4. The method of claim 1, in which the container is a semiconductor wafer cassette and the specimen is a semiconductor wafer. 5. The method of claim 1, in which the specimen is a semiconductor wafer that is of generally circular shape with a flat peripheral portion having a length, the source and receiver light path openings being separated by a distance that is greater than the length of the flat peripheral portion. 6. The method of claim 1, in which the imparting of relative motion between the specimen and the body comprises: imparting relative motion between the specimen and the body in the first measurement direction to restore the light transmission pathway at a first specimen surface location, the first specimen surface location corresponding to the first position information; imparting relative motion between the specimen and the body in the second measurement direction so that the specimen interrupts the light transmission pathway; and continuing the relative motion between the specimen and the body in the second measurement direction to restore the light transmission pathway at a second specimen surface location, the second specimen surface location corresponding to the second position information. 7. The method of claim 6, in which the first and second opposed major surfaces of the specimen are substantially planar and generally parallel to each other. 8. The method of claim 7, in which the specimen is a semiconductor wafer. 