A method and apparatus is disclosed for staging or cooling a substrate between high temperature thermal processing steps. In the disclosed embodiment, one or more cooling stations are located off-line within a wafer handling chamber, outside the thermal processing chamber. After thermal processing, a hot wafer can be loaded on to one station, where the wafer is subjected to forced convection cooling. In particular, the wafer is subjected to cooling gas from above and below through perforated upper and lower showerhead assemblies. The wafer can thus be cooled rapidly on a station while other wafers are transferred into and out of the processing chamber. Desirably, the wafer is cooled on the station to a point at which it can be handled by a low temperature wafer handler and stored in a low temperature cassette.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for cooling a semiconductor wafer after a high temperature processing comprising: a wafer handling chamber having a port through which a wafer may be moved to and from a storage area into a handling chamber, and having a port through which the wafer may be moved from the handling chamber into or out of a high temperature processing chamber; an automatic wafer handler for transporting a wafer into and out of the process chamber; and a fixed cooling station within the wafer handling chamber on which a processed first wafer may be moved to be cooled before being returned to the storage area, the station being positioned to enable a second wafer to be placed in the process chamber while the first wafer is being cooled. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cooling station includes upper and lower gas showerheads spaced from each other, and including supports for supporting a wafer between the showerheads and spaced from the showerheads, each of the showerheads being adapted to be connected to a source of cooling gas to enable cooling gas to be projected through openings in the showerheads onto the upper and lower surface of a wafer to cool the wafer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, including a second cooling station accessible by the handler and positioned to enable the wafer handler to move a wafer into the process chamber while a wafer is on the second cooling station. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein one of the cooling stations is on each side of the port leading to the process chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the cooling stations are positioned about 100 degrees apart such that the wafer handler only needs to be rotated about 50 degrees from the process chamber port to alignment with one of the cooling stations. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wafer handler includes a first end effector for accessing the process chamber and a second end effector arranged so that a wafer may be transferred between the first end effector and the second end effector. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the first end effector is a Bernoulli wand and the second end effector is a paddle. 8. A method of handling substrates for semiconductor processing, comprising: providing a substrate handler in a handling chamber, the substrate handler capable of transporting substrates into and out of a high temperature process chamber; withdrawing a processed first substrate from the process chamber with the substrate handler; transporting the first substrate onto a cooling station within and open to the handling chamber; removing a second substrate from a staging station within and open to the handling chamber; and inserting the second substrate into the process chamber with the handler while the first substrate is on the cooling station. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising removing the first substrate from the cooling station while the second substrate is processed within the process chamber. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising retrieving a third substrate and placing the third substrate on the staging station while the second substrate is processed within the process chamber. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: withdrawing the second substrate from the process chamber with the substrate handler; transporting the second substrate onto the cooling station; and inserting the third substrate into the process chamber with the handler while the second substrate is cooling on the cooling station. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the first substrate is convectively cooled on the cooling station. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first substrate is cooled by showerhead spraying of cooling gas from opposite sides of the substrate. 14. An apparatus for cooling substrates after a high temperature processing, comprising: a substrate handling chamber having a port through which substrates may be moved between the handling chamber and a high temperature process chamber; an automatic substrate handler for transporting substrates into and out of the process chamber; a fixed first cooling station positioned within and open to the substrate handling chamber; and a fixed second cooling station positioned within and open to the substrate handling chamber. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first and second cooling stations are positioned relative to the handler and the process chamber to enable the substrate handler to move the substrates into and out of the process chamber while a substrate is on one either or both of the cooling stations. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein one of the cooling stations is located on each side of the port leading to the process chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the cooling stations are positioned about 100.degree. apart such that the substrate handler only needs to be rotated about 50.degree. from the process chamber port to alignment with one of the cooling stations. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein at least one of the cooling stations is configured to supply cooling gas to a substrate positioned therein. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one of the cooling stations is configured to supply cooling gas through opposite side of the substrate positioned therein. 