The present invention relates to new aryl ether sulphonamides and analogues, processes for their preparation and their use for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders, in particular for the prophylaxis and treatment of neurodegenerative disorders, in particular for the treatment of cerebral apoplexy and craniocerebral trauma.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound of the formula (I): in which R.sup.1 represents naphth-1-yl, which is optionally substituted by (C.sub.1 -C.sub.6)-alkyl substituted by hydroxyl, (C.sub.1 -C.sub.6)-acylamino, amino or (C.sub.1 -C.sub.6)-alkoxy, indan-4-yl, which is substituted by hydroxy(C.sub.1 -C.sub.6)-alkyl, a radical of the formula ##STR799## in which R.sup.3 is (C.sub.1 -C.sub.6)-alkyl, E and A represent a bond, D represents an oxygen atom, G represents 1,3-phenylene, 1,4-phenylene or 2,5-pyridylene, each of which is optionally substituted by halogen, L represents a radical of the formula --NH--SO.sub.2 -- or --O--SO.sub.2 -- and R.sup.2 represents (C.sub.1 -C.sub.6)-alkyl which is optionally substituted by chlorine, trifluoromethyl, by a radical of the formula --O--CH.sub.2 --CF.sub.3 or by phenyl or by pyridyl, which can be substituted by bromine or chlorine, or a salt thereof. 2. A compound according to claim 1, which has one of the following formulae: ##STR800## ##STR801## ##STR802## ##STR803## ##STR804## ##STR805## 3. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound or physiologically acceptable salt thereof according to any one of claims 1 or 2 and a physiologically acceptable carrier. 4. A method for preventing and/or treating a neurodegenerative disorder, said method comprising administering to an individual an effective amount thereof of a compound or physiologically acceptable salt thereof according to any one of claims 1 or 2. 5. A method for preventing or treating cerebral ischaemia and craniocerebral trauma, said method comprising administering to an individual an effective amount therefor of a compound or physiologically acceptable salt thereof according to any one of claims 1 or 2. 6. A method for treating a condition selected from states of pain, nemesis, nausea, glaucoma, asthma, anorexia, convulsions, rheumatism, sedation and mobility disorders, said method comprising administering to an individual an effective amount therefor of a compound or physiologically acceptable salt thereof according to any one of claims 1 or 2. 7. A method for treating a condition selected from bacterial infections, viral infections, autoimmune diseases, and inflammatory or autoimmunologically related diseases of the joints of the bone and muscle apparatus, of the interred and external organs, or the central nervous system, said method comprising administering to an individual an effective amount therefor of a compound or physiologically acceptable salt thereof according to any one of claims 1 or 2. 