A method for producing a monolithic, seamless, polymeric housing structure for a micromachine uses a stereolithographic method to produce the structure layer by layer by exposing sequentially formed films of photopolymer to a beam of electromagnetic radiation scanned over patterns of locations corresponding to at least partially superimposed layers of the housing structure. The housing structure may include openings through which movable elements such as shafts and linkages may extend, and may provide sealed passage for electrical conductors therethrough from the micromachine to the exterior of the housing structure. Complex housing structures including closed or almost closed chambers and interior partition walls as well as interior passages of complex configuration may be formed to accommodate individual components or component assemblies. The micromachine may be assembled during fabrication of the housing structure, and preformed components or assemblies placed into the partially formed housing structure and the housing structure subsequently completed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabricating a housing structure for a micromachine, said method comprising: providing a micromachine including a plurality of components; and fabricating a housing structure at least about an exterior of said micromachine in the form of at least two superimposed, contiguous, mutually adhered layers of photopolymer polymerized in place, including fabricating at least a portion of said housing structure in spaced relationship to said micromachine. 2. The method of claim 1, further including joining said housing structure to said micromachine. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming a top layer of polymerized photopolymer adhered to said housing structure and overlying said micromachine. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein fabricating at least a portion of said housing structure in spaced relationship to said micromachine includes forming at least a portion of a top layer of polymerized photopolymer spaced from and cantilevered over said micromachine. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising inverting said housing structure and micromachine and forming a bottom layer of polymerized photopolymer to produce a monolithic enclosure surrounding said micromachine. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming each of said at least two layers by polymerizing laser radiation controllably scanned over a thin film of liquid photopolymer material. 7. The method of claim 1, further including fabricating said housing structure as one of a plurality of housing structures formed substantially concurrently over a respective plurality of micromachines disposed on a support platform. 8. A method of fabricating a housing structure for a micromachine, said method comprising: providing a micromachine including a plurality of components; and fabricating a housing structure at least about an exterior of said micromachine in the form of at least two superimposed, contiguous, mutually adhered layers of photopolymer polymerized in place, further including configuring said micromachine to include a micromotor for actuating a movable component which interacts with an element exterior to said micromachine and forming said housing structure about said movable component to define and configure an aperture about a portion of said movable component extending therethrough to accommodate movement of said movable component. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising fabricating at least one interior partition of said housing structure. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming a portion of said housing structure, placing said micromachine within said portion, and forming at least another portion of said housing structure. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising forming a portion of said housing structure, placing at least one component of the micromachine within the portion, forming another portion of said housing structure, and placing at least another component of the micromachine within said another portion of said housing structure. 12. A method of forming a housing structure for a micromachine, comprising: providing a micromachine having at least one movable component extending from an exterior thereof; forming at least one layer of polymerized photopolymer; placing said micromachine on at least a portion of said at least one layer of polymerized photopolymer; forming a border comprising at least one additional layer of polymerized photopolymer about a periphery of said micromachine to the exclusion of a protrusion beyond said border of said at least one movable component; and forming at least another additional layer of polymerized photopolymer proximate to but spaced from said micromachine. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said at least one additional layer is placed over at least a portion of said micromachine to fix said micromachine in a desired position on an upper surface of said at least one layer of polymerized photopolymer. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said micromachine includes electrical conductors for connection with apparatus exterior to said micromachine, and further comprising the steps of: placing said electrical conductors across a formed layer of polymerized photopolymer of said border to extend to a location exterior of said border; and forming at least one additional layer of polymerized photopolymer over a prior formed layer of said border and said electrical conductors to encompass passage of said electrical conductors through said border. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising forming a layer of polymerized photopolymer adhered to a portion of said housing structure and overlying said micromachine. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein forming at least another additional layer of polymerized photopolymer proximate to but spaced from said micromachine comprises forming said at least another additional layer overlying said micromachine to cause at least a portion of said layer to be spaced from and cantilevered over at least a portion of said micromachine. 17. The method of claim 12, further including forming said layers of polymerized photopolymer using polymerizing laser radiation controllably scanned over a thin film of liquid photopolymer material. 18. The method of claim 12, further including fabricating said housing structure as one of a plurality of housing structures formed substantially concurrently over a respective plurality of micromachines disposed on a support platform. 19. The method of claim 12, further including configuring said micromachine to include a micromotor for actuating said at least one movable component. 20. The method of claim 12, further comprising storing data including at least some dimensions of said micromachine and desired boundaries for said housing structure in computer memory, and using the stored data in conjunction with a machine vision system to recognize a location and orientation of said micromachine and to direct formation of said housing structure in accordance with said desired boundaries. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising using the stored data, in conjunction with said machine vision system, to stereolithographically form a plurality of layers of polymerized photopolymer. 22. A method of constructing a housing structure for a micromachine having at least one movable element protruding therefrom, said method comprising: (a) providing at least one micromachine having at least one movable element protruding therefrom; (b) providing a stereolithography apparatus having a reservoir for holding a liquid photopolymer material, a support platform movable vertically in said liquid photopolymer material, and a laser source for generating a laser beam scannable over said support platform under control of a computer program; (c) submerging said support platform with said at least one micromachine in said liquid photopolymer material to form a thin film thereof on said support platform; (d) scanning said laser beam over selected portions of said thin film adjacent said at least one micromachine to polymerize the thin film in said selected portions to at least a semisolid state; and (e) iterating steps (c) and (d) to produce a stack of superimposed, contiguous, mutually adhered, at least semisolid layers of polymeric material, wherein said scanning excludes portions of said thin film corresponding to a location of at least one opening in at least one layer of said stack of at least semisolid layers of polymeric material through which said at least one movable element protrudes and over which at least one opening another at least semisolid layer of polymeric material extends to define an upper boundary therefor. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said at least one micromachine includes electrical conductors extending therefrom and wherein said electrical conductors are placed across said at least semisolid layers of polymeric material, and a subsequent at least semisolid layer of polymeric material is formed thereover to embed and seal said electrical conductors within said housing structure. 24. A method for fabricating a micromachine, comprising: forming a first portion of a housing structure; placing a first preformed machine element of a micromachine on the first portion of the housing structure; forming a second portion of the housing structure adjacent the first machine element of the micromachine; placing a second preformed machine element of the micromachine in operably coupled relationship to the first machine element of the micromachine; and forming at least a third portion of the housing structure to encompass at least portions of the first and second machine elements. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising providing at least one of the first and second machine elements as an assembly of preformed components. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising forming the housing structure with at least one aperture through a wall thereof to accommodate extension of at least one portion of at least one of the first and second machine elements therethrough. 27. The method of claim 24, further comprising forming a partition wall within the housing structure through which a third machine element extends to effect the operably coupled relationship of the first and second machine elements. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the third machine element comprises at least one electrical conductor, and further comprising forming the partition wall about the at least one electrical conductor. 29. The method of claim 27, further comprising pre-placing the third machine element between the first and second machine elements and forming the partition wall thereafter with an aperture through which the third machine element extends in a spaced relationship to a border of the aperture. 30. The method of claim 24, wherein placing the second machine element comprises extending a portion of the second machine element through an aperture in the first machine element. 