A system is provided for improving data transmission to computers and computerized appliances connected directly or indirectly to the Internet or other wide area data network. In this system software at a proxy server uses prestored characteristics of client devices to translate data from Internet sources into a reduced-content form adapted specifically to the client device. Unique functionality for the system includes templates provided for specifying WEB page to client translation, and special scripts for prefetching pages in real-time. Systems are provided for many sorts of client devices and hosted devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computing system comprising: a client; and a server having server control routines and connected to the client by a data link; wherein the server control routines, upon a request to download by a client, determine one or more of hardware and software characteristics of the client, transpose data, without further negotiation with the client, and transmit the transposed data to the client in a form specifically adapted to the characteristics of the client, and wherein, in the transposing, a first set of files is transposed into a second set of files fewer in number than the first set of files. 2. computing system as in claim 1 wherein the second set of files comprises a single file. 3. A computing system as in claim 1 wherein the number of files in the second set of files is a function of the characteristics of the client. 4. A computing system as in claim 1 wherein the server, after transposing the data, saves a copy of the transposed data for future communication with the same client or a client having the same or similar characteristics. 5. A computing system as in claim 1 wherein the server transposes HTML files. 6. A computing system as in claim 1 wherein, upon log-in at the server, the client transfers to the server information particular to the hardware or software characteristics of the client, and wherein the server incorporates the information in transposing data for transfer to the client. 7. A server in a client-server system comprising: a data port for connecting to a client; a facility for accessing data to be transferred to the client; and control routines for managing data preparation and transfer to the client: wherein the control routines establish one or more of hardware and software characteristics of the client's device and, in response to a download request from the client, prepare and transmit data to the client in a form specifically adapted to the characteristics of the client, and wherein the control routines, in preparing the data for transfer to the client, transpose, without further negotiation with the client, a first set of files into a second set of files fewer in number than the first set of files before transferring the data to the client. 8. A server as in claim 7 wherein the second set of files comprises a single file. 9. A server as in claim 7 wherein the number of files in the second set of files is a function of the characteristics of the client. 10. A server as in claim 7 wherein, before transfer of data to a client, the control routines save a copy of transposed data for future communication with the same client or a client having the same or similar characteristics. 11. A server as in claim 7 wherein the server transposes HTML files. 12. A server as in claim 7 wherein, upon log-in at the server, the client transfers to the server information particular to the hardware or software characteristics of the client, and wherein the server incorporates the information in transposing data for transfer to the client. 13. A method for transferring data originally comprising multiple files by a server to a client, comprising steps of: a) determining at the server, upon a request to download by a client, one or more of specific hardware and software and software characteristics of characteristics of the client; b) transposing the data, without further negotiation with the client, according to the specific characteristics of the client, including reducing the number of files comprising the data; and c) transferring the transposed data to the client over a data link connecting the client to the server. d) saving a copy of the data sent to the client for future use in communicating with the same client or with a client having the same or similar hardware characteristics. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein, in step (b), the number of files is reduced to a single file. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the number of files in the data transferred to the client is a function of the specific hardware or software characteristics of the client. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein, in step (a), the specific hardware or software characteristics of the client are determined as a part of client log-in at the server. 