A method of assembling a part to a workpiece with a combination tool supported on a robot, where a mounting surface of the part is assembled on a target surface of the workpiece including the following steps. (a) Indexing to the assembly position. (b) Picking a part with the part gripper on the part delivery arm from a part supply station. (c) Indexing part delivery and workpiece preparation arms to the preparation position. (d) Operating the workpiece target surface scanning module and communicating workpiece target surface position data to the robot. (e) Moving the robot to set the tool operating axis and calculate tool offsets relative to the position and orientation of the scanned target surface. (f) Simultaneously: engaging the part mounting surface with the part surface preparation module; and engaging the workpiece target surface preparation module with the target surface. (g) Indexing to the assembly position. (h) Using the previously set tool operating axis and calculated tool offsets, engaging the prepared part mounting surface with the prepared workpiece target surface. (i) Releasing the part gripper and withdrawing the tool from the part/workpiece assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. A combination tool for assembling a part (1) to a workpiece (2) with a robot (not illustrated) following a programmed series of predetermined motions including picking the part (1) from a supply and transferring the part (1) to an assembly position (FIGS. 4, 6) aligned on an operating axis (3) wherein a mounting surface (4) of the part (1) engages a target surface (5) of the workpiece (2), the robot including a tool support, the combination tool comprising: a base (6) matching the tool support of the robot; a workpiece arm (7) including a workpiece target surface scanning module (8) with offset means for communicating workpiece target surface position data to the robot; a part delivery arm (9) including a part gripper (10) capable of releasably holding the part (1) with mounting surface (4) exposed; a part mounting surface preparation module (11) supported by the base (6) between: an engaged position (FIG. 5 dashed outline) in contact with the part mounting surface (4) while the part (1) is held in the part gripper (10); and a disengaged position (FIG. 5 solid outline) retracted from the part mounting surface (4); and an indexing module (12) supported on the base (6), the indexing module (12) alternating between: a preparation position (FIGS. 1, 3, 5); and said assembly position (FIGS. 4, 6), wherein: the indexing module (12) in the preparation position (FIGS. 1, 3, 5) supports the workpiece arm (7) aligned on the operating axis (3) while simultaneously supporting the part delivery arm (9) aligned with the part mounting surface preparation module (11) and wherein: the indexing module (12) in the assembly position (FIGS. 4, 6) supports the workpiece arm (7) withdrawn (FIG. 6) from the workpiece (2) while simultaneously supporting the part delivery arm (9) aligned on the operating axis (3). 2. A combination tool according to claim 1 wherein the workpiece arm (7) includes a workpiece target surface preparation module (13). 3. A combination tool according to claim 1 wherein the part mounting surface preparation module (11) is selected from the group consisting of: a heater; an adhesive applicator; a sealant applicator; an abrader; a cutter; and a surface grinder. 4. A combination tool according to claim 2 wherein the workpiece target surface preparation module (13) is selected from the group consisting of: a heater; an adhesive applicator; a sealant applicator; an abrader; a cutter; and a surface grinder. 5. A combination tool according to claim 1 wherein the workpiece target surface scanning module (8) is selected from the group consisting of: a laser scanner; an optical scanner; a sonar scanner; and an infrared scanner. 6. A combination tool according to claim 1 wherein the indexing module (12) includes a shaft (14) journaled to the base (6), the shaft (14) supporting the workpiece arm (7) and the part delivery arm (9); and includes a rotary actuator (15) operably engaging the shaft (14). 7. A combination tool according to claim 6 wherein the part mounting surface preparation module (11) comprises a linear actuator (16). 8. A combination tool according to claim 7 wherein a shaft axis (17), a linear actuator axis (18) and the operating axis (3) are mutually orthogonal (FIG. 1). 9. A method of assembling a part to a workpiece (2) with a combination tool supported on a robot (not illustrated), wherein a mounting surface (4) of the part (1) is assembled on a target surface (5) of the workpiece (2), wherein the combination tool comprises: a base (6) matching a tool support (not illustrated) of the robot; a workpiece arm (7) including: a workpiece target surface scanning module (13) with offset means for communicating workpiece target surface position data to the robot; and including a workpiece target surface preparation module (11); a part delivery arm (9) including a part gripper (10) capable of releasably holding the part (1) with mounting surface (4) exposed; a part mounting surface preparation module (11) supported by the base (6) between: an engaged position (FIG. 5 dashed outline) in contact with the part mounting surface (4) while the part (1) is held in the part gripper (10); and a disengaged position (FIG. 5 solid outline) retracted from the part mounting surface (4); and an indexing module (12) supported on the base (6), the indexing module (12) alternating between: a preparation position (FIGS. 1, 3, 5); and said assembly position (FIGS. 4, 6), wherein: the indexing module (12) in the preparation position (FIGS. 1, 3, 5) supports the workpiece arm (7) aligned on the operating axis (3) while simultaneously supporting the part delivery arm (9) aligned with the part mounting surface preparation module (11) and wherein: the indexing module (12) in the assembly position (FIGS. 4, 6) supports the workpiece arm (2) withdrawn (FIG. 6) from the workpiece (2) while simultaneously supporting the part delivery arm (9) aligned on the operating axis (3), and wherein the method comprises: indexing to the assembly position (FIG. 4); picking a part (1) with the part gripper (10) on the part delivery arm (9) from a part supply station (not shown); indexing arms (7, 9) to the preparation position(FIG. 5); operating the workpiece target surface scanning module (8) and communicating workpiece target surface position data to the robot (not shown); moving the robot to set the tool operating axis (3) and calculate tool offsets relative to the position and orientation of the scanned target surface (5); simultaneously: engaging the part mounting surface (4) with the part mounting surface preparation module (11); and engaging the workpiece target surface preparation module (13) with the target surface (5) (FIG. 5 dashed outline); indexing to the assembly position (FIG. 6); using the previously set tool operating axis (3) and calculated tool offsets, engaging the prepared part mounting surface (4) with the prepared workpiece target surface (5); and releasing the part gripper (10) and withdrawing the tool from the part/workpiece assembly. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein the part mounting surface preparation module (11) and the workpiece target surface preparation module (13) are each selected from the group consisting of: a heater; an adhesive applicator; a sealant applicator; an abrader; a cutter; and a surface grinder. 11. A method according to claim 10 wherein the part (1) and workpiece (2) are thermal plastic and wherein the part mounting surface preparation module (11) and workpiece target surface preparation module (13) are hot plate heaters. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein the workpiece (2) is a plastic gastank. 