Method and apparatus of spectrophotometry or the like on extremely small liquid samples in which a drop is held between two opposing surfaces by surface tension and one surface is controllably moved toward and away from the other. To provide and transmit exciting energy through the drop for measurement, the optical fibers go through a surface and are finished flush with its surface. One of the surfaces can be swung clear of the other for easy cleaning between tests.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A photometric or spectrophotometric apparatus wherein a sample in the form of a liquid drop is contained by surface tension forces between two planar surfaces, one containing a photometric or spectrophotometric source and the other a photometric or spectrophotometric detector and an optical path is established through the sample between the two surfaces said apparatus comprising: first and second anvil surfaces at least one being moveable relative the other to any one of three positions: an adjustable sample loading position so selected that the at least one moveable surface and the other surface are so remotely spaced that a liquid drop can be placed on the first surface; an adjustable sample compression position so selected that the surfaces are opposed and substantially parallel and proximally spaced so that the liquid wets and spreads upon both surfaces; an adjustable sample measuring position so selected that the opposed substantially parallel surfaces are spaced apart to pull the sample into a column wherein it is contained by surface tension thereby providing an optical path for a photometric or spectrophotometric measurement. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the source is coupled to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 3. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the detector is coupled to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 4. An apparatus as in claim 3 wherein the source and detector are each coupled to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 5. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein there is means such that the optical path between the two surfaces and through the sample can be varied to accommodate a wide range of sample absorbances. 6. An apparatus as in claim 5 wherein the source is intended to excite fluorescence in the sample and the detector has provision to block the source illumination and detect only the fluorescence. 7. An apparatus as in claim 5 wherein the source is coupled to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 8. An apparatus as in claim 5 wherein the detector is coupled to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 9. An apparatus as in claim 5 wherein the optical measurement path can be varied to accommodate variable levels of fluorescence and variable levels of absorbance. 10. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the source illuminates the sample from the detection side of the apparatus for the measurement of fluorescence. 11. An apparatus as in claim 10 wherein both the source and the detector are coupled to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 12. Apparatus as in claim 10 wherein the sample optical path can be varied to accommodate variable levels of fluorescence. 13. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein components of reacting or mixing samples can be applied to each of the two sides allowing photometric measurement to be made as the samples mix or react. 14. A method of using the apparatus of claim 13 wherein components of reacting or mixing samples are applied to each of the two surfaces allowing photometric, spectrophotometric, fluorometric or spectrofluorometric measurement to be made as the samples mix or react. 15. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the sample is confined between two thin transparent sheets to prevent contamination or damage to the photometric measurement apparatus or operator. 16. A method of using the apparatus of claim 1 wherein photometric or spectrophotometric measurement is made using two optical pathlengths. 17. An apparatus for performing optical measurements on microliter or sub-microliter liquid samples comprising a frame, a fixed surface or anvil mounted on the frame, a moveable surface or anvil mounted to the frame in substantial parallel opposition to the fixed anvil surface in at least one position, at least two optical fibers penetrating at least one of the surfaces, each of the fibers finished flush with its respective surface, means to move the moveable anvil surface to at least one controlled spacing from the fixed surface and means to perform an optical measurement of the properties of the microliter or sub-microliter liquid sample disposed between the surfaces employing at least one fiber to deliver light to the sample and at least one other fiber to transmit transmitted or excited energy to a detector. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein at least two optical fibers are opposed and each surface is penetrated by at least one fiber. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the moveable surface is mounted on a swing arm pivotally related to the fixed surface. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the moveable surface and swing arm are disposed to be manually pivoted to rest upon on of the two tips of the plunger of a solenoid fixedly mounted to the fixed surface and the other tip of the plunger is biased toward the moveable surface so that the swing arm can be manually depressed to compress the sample between the two surfaces, or the solenoid can be energized to compress the sample, whereby the sample wets both surfaces, but when the solenoid is not energized and no manual force is applied to the swing arm the two surfaces are spaced a selected distance apart to provide a desired optical path through the sample for measurement. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein an adjustable stop regulates the spacing between the two surfaces when the solenoid plunger is depressed. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein a permanent magnet mounted on the swing arm interacts with the framw to hold the swing arm in either the open or closed position. 23. An apparatus wherein the sample is contained in a small vessel with flexible walls such that the sample can be pulled into a measurement column between the fixed and moveable anvil surfaces and its absorbance measured as a difference in absorbance between two optical pathlengths. 24. A method of using the apparatus of claim 23 wherein the sample is enclosed in the small vessel with flexible walls, the surfaces of the apparatus are wetted, the vessel is placed between the surfaces of the apparatus and the sample is pulled into a measurement column by separating the surfaces while the sample absorbance is measured as a difference in absorbance between paths of two pathlengths. 25. In apparatus for the photometric or spectrophotometric measurement of small liquid volume samples the improvement comprising holding the sample by surface tension between two surfaces, adjusting the distance between those two surfaces such that the sample is drawn into a column by separating the two surfaces to a selected measuring distance, and performing the measurement employing a photometric or spectrophotometric detector each in one of the surfaces. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the source is coupled to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 27. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein the detector is couples to the sample with an optical fiber or light pipe. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the optical path is established through the sample between the source and detector and this path can be varied by adjusting the distance between the two surfaces. 29. A method of performing a photometric or spectrophotometric measurement on a microdrop liquid sample comprising: placing the sample on one of two relatively moveable opposing surfaces, or placing a part of the sample on each sutrface; moving the surfaces toward each other a preselecv6ed distance to spread the sample and to wet the surfaces; moving the surfaces apart from each other a preselected distance whereby the sample is contained between tuhe surfaces by surface tension; and performing the photometric or spectrophotometric measurement. 30. Apparatus for performing a plurality of optical measurements simultaneously on microliter or sub-microliter samples Comprising an equal plurality of the apparatus of claim 17 assembled in unitary form. 