A computerized system and method for inspecting and measuring a ball-shaped wire bond formed by an automated bonder pre-programmed to attach a connecting bond onto a bond pad of an integrated circuit by first obtaining a first image of said bond pad before bond attachment, then determining the coordinates of the center of said pad. Second, the bonder is instructed to attach a ball-shaped wire bond to the center of said pad. Next, a second image of said bond pad is obtained after bond attachment; this second image comprises an image of the ball-shaped portion of the bond and an image of the wire portion of said bond. The coordinates of the center of the ball-shaped portion of the bond are obtained by computer processing of the first and second images. The coordinates of the bond center and the pad center are compared, creating information for quality control of the bonder instruction and the bonding process. Finally, the bond process quality is controlled by inputting new bonder instruction for correcting any identified differences between the center coordinates.
Claims I claim: 1. A computer-implemented method for inspecting and measuring a ball-shaped wire bond formed by an automated bonder pre-programmed to attach a connecting bond onto a bond pad of an integrated circuit, said bonder having an associated computer-controlled vision system, comprising the steps of: obtaining a first image of said bond pad before bond attachment; determining the coordinates of the center of said pad; instructing said bonder to attach said ball-shaped wire bond to the center of said pad; obtaining a second image of said bond pad after bond attachment, said second image comprising an image of the ball-shaped portion of said bond and an image of the wire portion of said bond; determining the coordinates of the center of said ball-shaped portion of said bond by computer processing of said first and second images; comparing said coordinates of said bond center and said pad center, thereby creating information for quality control of said bonder instruction and bonding process; and controlling said bond process quality by inputting new bonder instruction for correcting any identified differences between said center coordinates. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of computer processing of said first and second images comprises the steps of: extracting the image of said attached bond; filtering said extracted bond image by removing noise; reducing said filtered bond image to contours only, thus outlining the geometrical shape of said bond portion having said ball-shaped bond; approximating said contours of said ball-shaped bond portion by a simplified search model selected for best fit into said ball-shaped outline; and determining the coordinates of the center of said search model. 3. The method according to claim 2 further comprising the the step of refining said geometrical outlines into thin, narrowly defined contours. 4. The method according to claims 2 and 3, wherein the steps of extracting, cleansing, reducing, refining, and approximating are performed by automated computer programs. 5. The method according to claim 2 wherein said simplified search model is selected from a group consisting of circle, ellipse, polygon, and synthetic image. 6. The method according to claim 2 wherein said step of determining the coordinates of said center of said simplified model comprises an automated computer program which identifies said center as equidistant from said outline. 7. The method according to claim 1 wherein said ball-shaped bond portion is replaced by a wedge-shaped or stitch-shaped bond portion. 8. The method according to claim 2 wherein said search model further includes a wire-modeling portion that includes at least a portion of a polygonal approximation of said image of said bond wire portion. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein said wire-modeling portion includes at least a portion of a rectangle. 10. The method according to claim 8 wherein said wire-modeling portion is continuous with said simplified search model of said ball-shaped portion. 11. The method according to claim 8 wherein said wire-modeling portion is substantially the same width as the width of said wire. 12. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of quality control comprises computing a new bond center coincident with said pad center and implementing said new center into said bonder as the corrected bond attachment instruction. 13. A computer-implemented method for inspecting and measuring the mechanical result achieved by an automated machine pre-programmed to perform mechanical action onto an action site of an object, said machine having an associated computer-controlled vision system, comprising the steps of: obtaining a first image of said action site before mechanical action; determining the coordinates of the center of said action site; instructing said machine to perform said mechanical action to said center of said action site; obtaining a second image of said action site after said mechanical action, said second image comprising an image of the result of said action; determining the coordinates of the center of said result by computer processing of said first and second images; comparing said coordinates of said action center and said site center, thereby creating information for quality control of said machine instruction and mechanical process; and controlling said mechanical process quality by inputting new machine instruction for correcting any identified differences between said center coordinates. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein said step of computer processing of said first and second images comprises the steps of: extracting the image of the result of said mechanical action; filtering said extracted result image by removing noise; reducing said filtered result image to contours only, thus outlining the geometrical shape of said result; approximating said contours of said result image by a simplified search model selected for best fit into said result image outline; and determining the coordinates of the center of said search model. 