A welding material in positioned in electrically conductive relation between exterior surface portions of first and second weldable members, such as hydroformed tubes, at a location where the first and second weldable members are to be joined. A welding device comprises first and second electrodes or conductive ends that extend along substantially the entire extent of first sides of the first and second weldable members, respectively. The first and second conductive ends include first and second concave recesses, which nest with the first and second weldable members, respectively. Electrical current is applied across the first and second weldable members by the nesting first and second conductive ends such that the applied current melts the welding material and thereby welds the exterior surface portions to one another. The welding device can be mounted on a robotic mechanism, which can move the welding device between first and second welding positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of welding, comprising: providing a first weldable member having a first longitudinal axis and a first cross-section transverse to the longitudinal axis, the cross-section being closed, hollow, and having first and second opposing sides; providing a welding device including a first welding part having a first support and a first conductive end, the first conductive end having a first base coupled to the first support and a first surface opposite to the first base; engaging the first surface of the welding device with the first side of the first weldable member such that the first surface is substantially coextensive with the first side of the first weldable member; conducting electricity through the first conductive end of the welding device and the first weldable member by conducting electricity though the first surface of the welding device and the first side of the first weldable member; providing a second weldable member having a second longitudinal axis and a second cross-section transverse to the second longitudinal axis, the second cross-section being hollow, closed, and having first and second opposing sides; providing a second welding part to the welding device, the second welding part having a second support and a second conductive end, the second conductive end having a second base coupled to the second support and a second surface opposite to the second base; engaging the second surface of the welding device with the first side of the second weldable member such that the second surface is substantially coextensive with the first side of the second weldable member, and the electricity conducted through the first weldable member being conducted through the second weldable member and through the second conductive end of the welding device by conducting electricity though the first side of the first weldable member and the second surface of the welding device; inserting a welding material between the first and second weldable members; and the flow of electricity through the first and second weldable members liquefies the welding material and forms a weld between the first and second weldable members at the location of the welding material through the bonding of the welding material to both the first and second weldable members under pressure exerted by said welding device. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: forming the first and second weldable member by hydroforming. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the inserting a welding material includes inserting weldable material formed as a plurality of nuggets between the first and second weldable members. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the providing a second weldable member includes positioning the second weldable member in an abutting relationship against the first weldable member such that the second longitudinal axis of the second weldable member is transverse to and spaced from the first longitudinal axis of the first weldable member. 5. A method of welding, comprising: providing a first weldable member having a first longitudinal axis and a first cross-section transverse to the longitudinal axis, the cross-section being closed, hollow, and having a first side; providing a second weldable member having a second longitudinal axis and a second cross-section transverse to the second longitudinal axis, the second cross-section being hollow, closed, and having a second side; inserting a welding material between the first and second weldable members; providing a welding device including a first welding part having a first surface and a second welding part having a second surface; engaging the first surface of the welding device with the first side of the first weldable member such that the first surface is substantially coextensive with the first side of the first weldable member; engaging the second surface of the welding device with the second side of the second weldable member such that the second surface is substantially coextensive with the second side of the second weldable member; and conducting electricity through the first surface of the welding device, the first side of the first weldable member, the second side of the second weldable member and the second surface of the welding device, the flow of electricity through the first and second weldable members liquefying the welding material and forming a weld between the first and second weldable members at the location of the welding material through the bonding of the welding material to both the first and second weldable members under pressure exerted by said welding device. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the inserting a welding material includes inserting weldable material formed as a plurality of nuggets between the first and second weldable members. 7. A method according to claim 5, wherein the providing a second weldable member includes positioning the second weldable member in an abutting relationship against the first weldable member such that the second longitudinal axis of the second weldable member is transverse to and spaced from the first longitudinal axis of the first weldable member. 8. A combination of a welding device and at least one weldable member, comprising: a first weldable member having a first longitudinal axis and a first cross-section transverse to said longitudinal axis, said cross-section being closed, hollow, and having a first width, said first width having a first conductive surface extending along the entire extent of said first width, the first conductive surface having a first nonarcuate section; a welding device having a first contacting surface engaged with said first conductive surface, said first contacting surface extending along and contacting said first conductive surface along substantially the entire extent of said first width of said first weldable member, the first contacting surface having a nonarcuate portion contacting said first conductive surface. 9. A combination according to claim 8, further comprising: a second weldable member abutting said first weldable member, said second weldable member having a second longitudinal axis and a second cross-section transverse to said second longitudinal axis, said second cross-section being closed, hollow, and having a second width, said second width having a second conductive surface extending along the entire extent of said second width, the second conductive surface having a second nonarcuate section; and said welding device having a second contacting surface engaged with said second conductive surface, said second contacting surface extending along and contacting said second conductive surface along substantially the entire extent of said second width of said second weldable member, the second contacting surface having a second nonarcuate portion contacting said second conductive surface. 10. A combination according to claim 8, wherein said first weldable member is hydroformed and said first conductive surface includes a generally flat section. 11. A combination according to claim 8, wherein said first and second weldable members are hydroformed and each of said first and second conductive surfaces includes a generally flat section. 12. A combination according to claim 8, wherein said first and second weldable members are hydroformed and each of said first and second conductive surfaces and each of said first and second contacting surfaces includes multiple, generally flat sections. 13. A combination according to claim 8, further comprising: a welding material positioned between said first and second weldable members, said welding material being a separate element with respect to said first and second weldable members. 14. A combination of a welding device and at least one weldable member, comprising: first weldable member having a first longitudinal axis and a first cross-section transverse to said longitudinal axis, said cross-section being closed, hollow, and having a first width, said first width having a first conductive surface extending along the entire extent of said first width, the first conductive surface having a first nonarcuate section; a welding device having a first contacting surface engaged with said first conductive surface, said first contacting surface extending along and contacting said first conductive surface along substantially the entire extent of said first width of said first weldable member, the first contacting surface having a nonarcuate portion contacting said first conductive surface; a welding material positioned between said first and second weldable members, said welding material being a separate element with respect to said first and second weldable members, said welding material includes welding material formed as a plurality of nuggets. 15. A combination according to claim 9, wherein said second weldable member abuts against said first weldable member such that said second longitudinal axis of said second weldable member is transverse to and spaced from said first longitudinal axis of said first weldable member. 