A search system and method for controlling multiple agents to optimize an objective using distributed sensing and cooperative control. The search agent can be one or more physical agents, such as a robot, and can be software agents for searching cyberspace. The objective can be: chemical sources, temperature sources, radiation sources, light sources, evaders, trespassers, explosive sources, time dependent sources, time independent sources, function surfaces, maximization points, minimization points, and optimal control of a system such as a communication system, an economy, a crane, and a multi-processor computer.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for controlling a plurality of agents to search an area for an objective, wherein each agent comprises a sensor, a communicator, and a cooperative controller, the method comprising on each agent: a) determining a reading from the sensor; b) sharing the reading with other agents in the plurality of agents; c) concurrently approximating the search area, according to a plurality of readings from the plurality of agents; d) solving for a cooperative approximation, corresponding to the concurrently approximated search area; e) updating an agent control strategy, according to the cooperative approximation and the reading; and f) repeating steps a) through e) until an optimization condition for the objective is met. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reading comprises: a) a location for the agent; and b) a measurement of the search area at the location. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the cooperative controller comprises step memory. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein sharing the reading comprises communicating the reading to each agent in the plurality of agents. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein each agent further comprises an agent communication range, wherein sharing the reading comprises communicating the reading to a plurality of nearest neighbor agents in the plurality of agents within the communication range of the agent. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the cooperative approximation corresponds to a quadratic form according to: ##EQU5## where x.sub.i and x.sub.j denote points in an N dimensional search space, and a.sub.q for every q=0, 1, . . . , 1/2N(N+3) denotes unknown coefficients defining the quadratic form at time t. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein solving for a cooperative approximation comprises solving for the unknown coefficients using a least squares approximation. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the objective is selected from the group consisting of: chemical sources, temperature sources, radiation sources, light sources, evaders, trespassers, intruders, explosive sources, and combinations thereof. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the objective is selected from the group consisting of: function surfaces, maximization points, minimization points, optimal control of a system, and combinations therof. 10. A method for controlling a plurality of processors in a computer to cooperatively optimize an objective for a surface function, the method comprising on each processor: a) evaluating the surface function at a location; b) sharing the evaluation and the location with other processors in the plurality of processors; c) concurrently approximating the surface function, according to evaluations and locations from the plurality of processors; d) solving for a cooperative approximation, corresponding to the concurrently approximated surface function; e) updating a processor control strategy, according to the cooperative approximation and the location; and f) repeating steps a) through e) until an optimization condition for the objective is met. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the cooperative approximation corresponds to a quadratic form according to: ##EQU6## where x.sub.i and x.sub.j denote points in an N dimensional search space, and a.sub.q for every q=0, 1, . . . , 1/2N(N+3) denotes unknown coefficients defining the quadratic form at time t. 