A material delivery system is disclosed which is particularly useful for filtered environments, such as clean rooms, minienvironments, or the like. In one embodiment, the material delivery system is disposed below a work area in a clean room-like environment to store parts to be used at the work area. In another embodiment, the material delivery system includes a material delivery elevator for transporting parts to a desired elevational level. In yet another embodiment, the material delivery system includes a cover which is detachably interconnected with a body to define an enclosed material storage area. An assembly is provided to lock the cover down onto the body with a gasket therebetween to appropriately seal this interconnection. This same assembly lifts the cover up and away from the body so as to not damage this gasket. Finally, this same assembly also allows the cover to be rolled off of the body without exposing the gasket to any shear-like forces so as to further reduce the potential for damage to the gasket during removal of the cover from the body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A work station, comprising: a work zone, wherein said work zone comprises a filtered environment and a work surface that is disposed within said filtered environment, wherein said work surface comprises a work surface opening; a material delivery system disposed within said work zone below said work surface, wherein said material delivery system comprises a material delivery system opening aligned with said work surface opening, as well as a vertically movable platform that is aligned with said material delivery system opening and thereby said work surface opening, wherein access to said material delivery system is limited to through said material delivery system opening. 2. A workstation as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of trays stacked on said platform of said material delivery system, wherein each said tray comprises a plurality of parts. 3. A work station, as claimed in claim 2, wherein: each said tray is disposable. 4. A work station, as claimed in claim 2, wherein: said plurality of parts comprise a plurality of disk drive parts. 5. A work station, claimed in claim 1, wherein said material delivery system further comprises: an enclosure that comprises said material delivery system opening, an interior space, and a bottom that comprises a plurality of perforations and that is disposed opposite said material delivery system opening, wherein said platform is movably disposed within said enclosure. 6. A work station, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a minienvironment that comprises said filtered environment. 7. A work station, as claimed in claim 6, wherein: said minienvironment comprises a frame, walls defining an at least substantially enclosed space, at least one access to said at least substantially enclosed space from outside said minienvironment, and a filtered gas delivery system fluidly interconnected with said at least substantially enclosed space for directing a gas flow from outside said at least substantially enclosed space to within said at least substantially enclosed space. 8. A work station, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said filtered environment is a clean room. 9. A work station, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said filtered environment has a cleanliness level of at least a Class 100. 10. A work station, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a portable clean cart that contains said material delivery system and that is parked at said work zone under said work surface. 11. A work station, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said material delivery system is fixedly incorporated into said work station. 12. A method for assembling a disk drive, comprising the steps of: providing a filtered environment for a work surface, wherein said work surface comprises an opening; disposing a material delivery system below said work surface, wherein said disposing step comprising aligning a platform of said material delivery system with said opening in said work surface; disposing a plurality of disk drive parts on said platform of said material delivery system; executing a first raising step comprising raising said platform of said material delivery system to a first position; removing a first plurality of said plurality of disk drive parts from platform of said material delivery system while at said first position; executing a second raising step comprising raising said platform of said material delivery system from said first position to a second position; and removing a second plurality of said plurality of disk drive parts from said platform of said material delivery system while at said second position. 13. A method, as claimed in claim 12, wherein said disposing a plurality of disk drive parts step comprises stacking a plurality of trays on said platform of said material delivery system. 14. A method, as claimed in claim 13, wherein: said first plurality are disposed within a first tray and said second plurality are disposed within a second tray, wherein said first tray is disposed on top of said second tray, wherein said method further comprises the step of removing said first tray after said removing a first plurality step, wherein said executing a second raising step is executed after said removing said first tray step. 15. A method, as claimed in claim 14, further comprising the step of: discarding said first tray after said removing said first tray step. 16. A method, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said executing a first and second raising step each comprise positioning said first and second pluralities, respectively, at a desired height relative to said work surface. 17. A method, as claimed in claim 12, further comprising the steps of: loading said plurality of disk drive parts in a portable clean cart, wherein said portable clean cart comprises said material delivery system; sealing said portable clean cart to maintain cleanliness standards associated with said plurality of parts; and transporting said portable clean cart after said sealing step, wherein said disposing step comprises parking said portable clean cart under said work surface. 