A method of using a drilling end effector includes providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto. The positional orientation of the drilling end effector along six degrees of freedom is detected using a photogrammetry sensor to determine the orientation of the plurality of photogrammetry targets and outputting a position signal to a controller. The drilling end effector is robotically manipulated adjacent to a part to be drilled in response to the position signal to accurately position a drill bit relative to the part to be drilled. The part is then drilled.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of using a drilling end effector comprising: providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto; detecting the positional orientation of said drilling end effector using a photogrammetry sensor to determine the orientation of said plurality of photogrammetry targets along three linear degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom and outputting a position signal to a controller; manipulating said drilling end effector adjacent to a part to be drilled in response to said position signal; and extending a drill bit into drilling engagement with said part to be drilled to provide a drilling operation. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of manipulating said drilling end effector being accomplished using a robotic arm assembly. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein said step of manipulating said drilling end effector adjacent to a part to be drilled including contacting a drill bushing of said drilling end effector and said part to be drilled. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: actuating at least one actuator to providing a clamping force between said drilling end effector and said part to be drilled. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein said step of actuating at least one actuator to providing a clamping force between said drilling end effector and said part to be drilled includes actuating a pneumatic cylinder coupled between a drill motor and a pressure foot member. 6. A method of using a drilling end effector comprising: providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto; detecting the positional orientation of said drilling end effector using a photogrammetry sensor to determine the orientation of said plurality of photogrammetry targets and outputting a position signal to a controller; manipulating said drilling end effector adjacent to a part to be drilled in response to said position signal; extending a drill bit into drilling engagement with said part to be drilled to provide a drilling operation; and lubricating said drill bit during said drilling operation. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein said step of lubricating said drill bit during said drilling operation includes combining a lubricant and pressurized air to form a lubricating mist sufficient to cool, lubricate, and clean said drill bit. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: vacuuming at least a portion of debris produced during said drilling operation. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: removing said drill bit from said drilling engagement with said part to be drilled once a predetermined drill depth is achieved. 10. The method according to claim 9 wherein said step of removing said drill bit from said drilling engagement with said part to be drilled once a predetermined drill depth is achieved includes providing a micrometer contact switch capable of outputting a drill depth signal to said controller, said controller removing said drill bit from drilling engagement with said part to be drilled once said drill depth signal is received. 11. A method of using a drilling end effector comprising: providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto; detecting the positional orientation of said drilling end effector using a photogrammetry sensor to determine the orientation of said plurality of photogrammetry targets and outputting a position signal to a controller; manipulating said drilling end effector adjacent to a part to be drilled in response to said position signal; extending a drill bit into drilling engagement with said part to be drilled to provide a drilling operation; monitoring a drilling cycle time; and comparing said drilling cycle time to a predetermined cycle time to detect drilling complications. 12. A method of using a drilling end effector comprising: providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto; mounting said plurality of photogrammetry targets upon generally angular brackets disposed on side panels of a housing of said drilling end effector; detecting the positional orientation of said drilling end effector using a photogrammetry sensor to determine the orientation of said plurality of photogrammetry targets and outputting a position signal to a controller; manipulating said drilling end effector adjacent to a part to be drilled in response to said position signal; and extending a drill bit into drilling engagement with said part to be drilled to provide a drilling operation. 13. A method of using a drilling end effector comprising: providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto; detecting the positional orientation of said drilling end effector using a photogrammetry sensor to determine the orientation of said plurality of photogrammetry targets and outputting a position signal to a controller; robotically manipulating said drilling end effector adjacent to a part to be drilled in response to said position signal; actuating at least one actuator to providing a clamping force between said drilling end effector and said part to be drilled; extending a drill bit into drilling engagement with said part to be drilled to provide a drilling operation; lubricating said drill bit during said drilling operation; and vacuuming at least a portion of debris produced during said drilling operation. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein said step of detecting the positional orientation of said drilling end effector being along three linear degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein said step of actuating at least one actuator to providing a clamping force between said drilling end effector and said part to be drilled includes actuating a pneumatic cylinder coupled between a drill motor and a pressure foot member. 16. The method according to claim 13 wherein said step of lubricating said drill bit during said drilling operation includes combining a lubricant and pressurized air to form a lubricating mist sufficient to cool, lubricate, and clean said drill bit. 17. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: monitoring a drilling cycle time; and comparing said drilling cycle time to a predetermined cycle time to detect drilling complications. 18. The method according to claim 13 wherein said step of providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto includes mounting said plurality of photogrammetry targets upon generally angular brackets disposed on side panels of a housing of said drilling end effector. 19. A method of using a drilling end effector comprising: providing a drilling end effector having a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto; detecting the positional orientation of said drilling end effector along three linear degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom using a photogrammetry sensor to determine the orientation of said plurality of photogrammetry targets and outputting a position signal to a controller; robotically manipulating said drilling end effector adjacent to a part to be drilled in response to said position signal; actuating at least one actuator to providing a clamping force between said drilling end effector and said part to be drilled; extending a drill bit into drilling engagement with said part to be drilled to provide a drilling operation; lubricating said drill bit during said drilling operation by combining a lubricant and pressurized air to form a lubricating mist sufficient to cool, lubricate, and clean said drill bit; vacuuming at least a portion of debris produced during said drilling operation; monitoring a drilling cycle time; and comparing said drilling cycle time to a predetermined cycle time to detect drilling complications. 