A heat block thermocycler to perform rapid PCR in multiple small-volume samples (1-20 .mu.l) employing, low profile, low thermal mass sample block the temperature of which can be rapidly and accurately modulated by a single thermoelectric pump (thermoelectric module). An array of spaced-apart sample wells is formed in the top surface of the block. The samples are placed into the wells of ultrathin-walled (20-40 .mu.m) multiwell plate and located into the sample block. The heated lid tightly seals the individual wells by pressing the sealing film to the top surface of the multiwell plate. Air pressure arising inside the tightly sealed wells at elevated temperatures deforms the elastic walls of the wells of the ultrathin-walled plate and brings them into close thermal contact with the sample block. A gasket thermally isolates the sample block from the heated lid. The PCR reactions (30 cycles) can be performed in 10-30 minutes.
Claims What we claim: 1. A heat block thermocycler for subjecting plurality of samples to rapid thermal cycling, the heat block thermocycler comprising: a means for holding the plurality of samples including: a deformable ultrathin-walled multiwell plate having an array of conically shaped wells with a wall thickness at a thickest part of the wells of not more than 50 .mu.m; and a low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block having an array of similarly shaped wells, wherein a height of the wells of said deformable ultrathin-walled multiwell plate is not more than a height of said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block; a means for heating and cooling said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block including at least one thermoelectric module; and a means for sealing the plurality of samples including a high pressure, moveable, heated lid. 2. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein said deformable ultrathin-walled multiwell plate has a thinnest part in a bottom of each well. 3. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein said deformable ultrathin-walled multiwell plate has a thickness at a thinnest part in the range of 15 .mu.m to 20 .mu.m. 4. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 3, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block has a thermal capacity of not more than 6 watt seconds per .degree. C. 5. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein each well of said deformable ultrathin-walled multiwell plate has a volume of not more than 40 .mu.l. 6. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block has a height of not more than 4 mm. 7. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 6, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block has a thermal capacity of not more than 6 watt seconds per .degree. C. 8. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 7, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block has a thermal mass of 4.5 Joules/K. 9. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 8, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block is designed for biological samples of 1 .mu.l-20 .mu.l. 10. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block has a thermal capacity of not more than 6 watt seconds per .degree. C. 11. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 10, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block has a thermal mass of 4.5 Joules/K. 12. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 11, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block is designed for biological samples of 1 .mu.l-20 .mu.l. 13. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block has a thermal mass of 4.5 Joules/K. 14. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 13, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block is designed for biological samples of 1 .mu.l-20 .mu.l. 15. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block is designed for biological samples of 1 .mu.l-20 .mu.l. 16. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein temperature of said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block is rapidly and controllably increased and decreased at a rate of at least as great as 5.degree. C. per second by a single thermoelectric module. 17. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein force of the high pressure, moveable, heated lid is applied to said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block. 18. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1 wherein force of the high pressure, moveable, heated lid is applied to portions of said deformable ultrathin-walled multiwell plate lying between said wells of said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block to seal the wells. 19. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein force of the high pressure, moveable, heated lid is applied to portions of said deformable ultrathin-walled multiwell plate lying between said wells of said low profile, low thermal mass and low thermal capacity sample block to seal the wells and is not more than 100 Kg per total surface. 20. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein the high pressure, moveable, heated lid includes an elastic insulating gasket. 21. A heat block thermocycler according to claim 1, wherein the high pressure, moveable, heated lid includes a silicon rubber gasket. 