An improved tool mount structure allows the infinite placement of a tool along a generally elongate cylindrical member at an infinite number of locations. The elongate cylindrical member is fixed at each axial end to a generally rigid moving member such as a robotic arm boom or transfer bar. The cylindrical member is fixed in a bracket at one axial end, and into a quick-release mount at an opposed axial end. The cylindrical member may be quickly released from the moving member such that the tool may be easily changed. At the same time, by fixing the cylindrical member at each axial end, a secure rigid connection is provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool mounting system for mounting tools comprising: a moving boom member fixed to a robotic manipulator to move said moving boom member and move tools fixed to said moving boom member; said moving boom member extending to a T-member fixed at an angle to a boom connected to be driven by said robotic manipulator; and at least one generally elongate tool mount fixed at each axial end to said T-member, said tool mount having a bracket at one axial end received in mating structure on a bracket on said T-member, and a second axial end of said tool mount being received in a quick-release mount on said T-member. 2. A tool mounting system comprising: a moving boom member to be fixed to a robotic manipulator to move said moving boom member and also tools fixed to said moving boom member, said moving boom member having a T-member fixed at an angle to a forward portion of said moving boom member; and at least one generally elongate tool mount fixed to said T-member on each lateral side of said T-member said lateral sides being defined on opposed sides of said moving boom member, each of said elongate tool mounts being fixed at each axial end to said T-member, said tool mount having a quick release mount to release said tool mount from said T-member, and having a cylindrical extending portion such that tools may be mounted at an infinite number of positions along said cylindrical portion. 3. A moving tool mount as recited in claim 2, said tool mounts are mounted on both forward and rearward faces of said T-member and on each of said lateral sides of said T-member. 