Disclosed is a highly accurate articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising a revolute joint, comprising a circular encoder wheel, having an axis of rotation; a plurality of marks disposed around at least a portion of the circumference of the encoder wheel; bearing means for supporting the encoder wheel, while permitting free rotation of the encoder wheel about the wheel's axis of rotation; and a sensor, rigidly attached to the bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the encoder wheel rotates; a probe arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the encoder wheel, and having a distal end with a probe tip attached thereto; and coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the sensor, for converting the output of the sensor into a set of cylindrical coordinates representing the position of the probe tip relative to a reference cylindrical coordinate system.
Claims We claim: 1. A highly-accurate, articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising: a probe arm, having a proximal end and a distal end; a probe tip attached to the distal end of the probe arm; a first revolute joint, having a first axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the probe arm, and comprising a first angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the first joint; a second revolute joint, comprising a second angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the second joint, the second angle encoder comprising: a first circular encoder wheel, having an outside cylindrical surface, and having a second axis of rotation oriented perpendicular to the first circular encoder wheel; first bearing means for rotatably supporting the first encoder wheel, thereby permitting free rotation of the first encoder wheel about the second axis of rotation; a plurality of uniformly spaced marks disposed around at least a portion of the outside cylindrical surface of the first encoder wheel; and a first sensor, rigidly attached to the first bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the first encoder wheel rotates; a first support arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the first encoder wheel, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the first joint; a second support arm, having a proximal end, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the second revolute joint; a third revolute joint, having a third axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the second support arm; and further comprising a third angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the third joint; second bearing means for rotatably supporting the third revolute joint; means for kinematically constraining the second bearing means to a working surface; coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the first, second and third angle encoders, for converting the output of the first, second and third angle encoders into a set of coordinates representing the position of the probe tip relative to a reference coordinate system; and a riser block rigidly attached to the first circular encoder wheel and rigidly attached to the proximal end of the first support arm; wherein the riser block is rigidly attached to the first circular encoder wheel by using the following manufacturing steps, in the order presented: a) rough machining the first circular encoder wheel and the riser block; b) clamping together the rough-machined first circular encoder wheel and the rough-machined riser block to form a first subassembly; c) precision match drilling a first central bore hole into the first subassembly, the hole being aligned with the second axis of rotation of the first circular encoder wheel; and d) precision finishing the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for converting the set of coordinates into Cartesian coordinates. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to, and intersecting with, the third axis of rotation. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the orientation of the second axis and the third axis are perpendicular to better than 0.003 inches. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to, and intersecting with, the longitudinal axis of the second support arm. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented parallel to the second axis of rotation. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the length of the first support arm and the length of the probe arm are substantially the same. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for preventing rotation of the probe arm relative to the first support arm from exceeding 170 degrees. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a joystick wand, gimbally attached to the distal end of the probe arm, for being manipulated by a human hand. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a flexible encoder tape scale wrapped at least partially around the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel, wherein the plurality of marks are disposed on the flexible encoder tape scale. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the plurality of marks comprise parallel lines spaced apart a distance equal to or greater than about 20 microns. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the flexible encoder tape scale comprises a flexible inductive or magnetic encoder tape scale. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of marks are ruled directly onto the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an interpolator module operatively associated with the first sensor for electronically interpolating in-between two adjacent marks. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the plurality of marks comprise parallel lines spaced equal to or greater than about 20 microns apart, and further wherein the interpolator module provides an effective line spacing that is greater than or equal to about 50 nm (0.05 microns). 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first sensor comprises a detector selected from the group consisting of an optical detector, an inductive detector, and a magnetic detector. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second bearing means comprises a bearing selected from the group consisting of an air bearing, a roller bearing, and a ball bearing. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the kinematic constraining means comprises a base plate rigidly attached to the second bearing means, and three spherical mounting feet rigidly attached to the base plate, wherein the feet are arranged 120 degrees apart. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a kinematic mounting plate having three V-shaped grooves pointing radially inward and arranged 120 degrees apart, for kinematically constraining the three spherical mounting feet attached to the base plate. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a kinematic mounting plate having three pairs of cylindrical pins, wherein each pair of pins are aligned essentially parallel to each other; and further wherein each pair of pins is arranged 120 degrees apart, for accepting and kinematically constraining the three spherical mounting feet attached to the base plate. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising means for urging the base towards the working surface; said urging means being selected from the group consisting of a spring, a magnet, a clamp, and a vacuum clamp, and combinations thereof. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second axis of rotation is oriented substantially parallel to the working surface. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the third axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to the working surface. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the probe arm. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the positional accuracy of the probe tip is better than or equal to ten microns. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the accuracy of the second angle encoder is better than or equal to 1 arcsecond. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the effective angular resolution of the second angle encoder is better than or equal to 3 counts per arcsecond. 28. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the probe arm and the first support arm comprise a stiff material having a low thermal expansion coefficient and a high elastic modulus. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the stiff material essentially comprises alumina. 30. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the stiff material comprises a carbon fiber reinforced carbon-matrix composite material having essentially zero thermal expansion coefficient. 31. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first bearing means for rotatably supporting the first circular encoder wheel comprises a pair of ball bearing assemblies having a quality grade selected from the group consisting of ABEC 7, ABEC 8, and ABEC 9. 32. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the probe arm comprises a hollow, thin-walled tube. 33. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the probe tip comprises a precision gauge ball. 34. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the probe tip comprises a touch probe. 35. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the machine comprises a structural metal alloy having essentially zero thermal expansion coefficient, selected from the group consisting of INVAR-36, SUPER INVAR, and KOVAR. 36. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first circular encoder wheel has a diameter greater than or equal to about 4.5 inches. 37. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first circular encoder wheel comprises a plurality of weight-reducing penetrations. 38. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first angle encoder comprises a lightweight laser optical angle encoder capable of generating at least 81,000 counts/revolution; which has a diameter less than or equal to about 1.5 inches and a weight less than or equal to about 80 grams. 39. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one metal-to-metal concentric joint assembled by using an interference-type shrink-fit process. 40. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the coordinate processing means further comprises: memory means for storing a set of best-fit kinematic parameters; and processing means for using the set of best-fit kinematic parameters for computing the position of the probe tip. 41. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising protective means, surrounding at least some of the articulate coordinate measuring machine, for providing a nearly constant thermal environment, and for preventing debris from contaminating the apparatus. 42. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first support arm comprises a pair of hollow tubes, oriented parallel to each other. 43. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a riser block rigidly attached to the first circular encoder wheel and rigidly attached to the proximal end of the first support arm. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, further comprising a pair of dowel pins lightly press fitted through the first circular encoder wheel and at least partially into the riser block, for enabling precise re-assembly and re-alignment of the first circular encoder wheel to the riser block after the two parts have been disassembled. 45. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel comprises a precisely ground or lapped surface. 46. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a first shaft rigidly attached to first subassembly by interference shrink fitting the first shaft into the match-drilled first central bore hole. 47. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the first circular encoder wheel has a machining tolerance of better than +/-0.001 inches; and further has a roundness, concentricity, and parallelism machining tolerance equal to 0.0005 inches. 48. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the first central bore hole has a machining tolerance equal to +0.000 or -0.0002 inches. 49. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least two ball or roller bearing assemblies interference shrink fitted into the first bearing means. 50. A highly-accurate, articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising: a probe arm, having a proximal end and a distal end; a probe tip attached to the distal end of the probe arm; a first revolute joint, having a first axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the probe arm, and comprising a first angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the first joint; a second revolute joint, comprising a second angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the second joint, the second angle encoder comprising: a first circular encoder wheel, having an outside cylindrical surface, and having a second axis of rotation oriented perpendicular to the first circular encoder wheel; first bearing means for rotatable supporting the first encoder wheel, thereby permitting free rotation of the first encoder wheel about the second axis of rotation; a Plurality of uniformly spaced marks disposed around at least a portion of the outside cylindrical surface of the first encoder wheel, wherein the marks comprise lines that are oriented parallel to the first encoder wheel's axis of rotation; and a first sensor, rigidly attached to the first bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the first encoder wheel rotates; a first support arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the first encoder wheel, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the first joint; a second support arm, having a proximal end, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the second revolute joint; a third revolute joint, having a third axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the second support arm; and further comprising a third angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the third joint; second bearing means for rotatable supporting the third revolute joint; means for kinematically constraining the second bearing means to a working surface; and coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the first, second and third angle encoders, for converting the output of the first, second and third anale encoders into a set of coordinates representing the position of the probe tip relative to a reference coordinate system; wherein the probe arm comprises means for measuring changes in the length of the probe arm. 51. The apparatus of claim 50, wherein the means for measuring changes in the length of the probe arm comprises a device selected from the group consisting of a displacement sensing transducer and a laser interferometer. 52. A highly-accurate, articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising: a probe arm, having a proximal end and a distal end; a probe tip attached to the distal end of the probe arm; a first revolute joint, having a first axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the probe arm, and comprising a first angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the first joint; a second revolute joint, comprising a second angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the second joint, the second angle encoder comprising: a first circular encoder wheel, having an outside cylindrical surface, and having a second axis of rotation oriented perpendicular to the first circular encoder wheel; first bearing means for rotatable supporting the first encoder wheel, thereby permitting free rotation of the first encoder wheel about the second axis of rotation; a plurality of uniformly spaced marks disposed around at least a portion of the outside cylindrical surface of the first encoder wheel, wherein the marks comprise lines that are oriented parallel to the first encoder wheel's axis of rotation; and a first sensor, rigidly attached to the first bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the first encoder wheel rotates; a first support arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the first encoder wheel, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the first joint; a second support arm, having a proximal end, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the second revolute joint; a third revolute joint, having a third axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the second support arm; and further comprising a third angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the third joint; second bearing means for rotatable supporting the third revolute joint; means for kinematically constraining the second bearing means to a working surface; and coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the first, second and third angle encoders, for converting the output of the first, second and third angle encoders into a set of coordinates representing the position of the probe tip relative to a reference coordinate system; wherein the probe arm and the first support arm comprise a stiff material having a low thermal expansion coefficient and a high elastic modulus; and wherein the stiff material comprises an electrically insulating material. 53. A highly-accurate, articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising: a probe arm, having a proximal end and a distal end; a probe tip attached to the distal end of the probe arm; a first revolute joint, having a first axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the probe arm, and comprising a first angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the first joint; a second revolute joint, comprising a second angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the second joint, the second angle encoder comprising: a first circular encoder wheel, having an outside cylindrical surface, and having a second axis of rotation oriented perpendicular to the first circular encoder wheel, first bearing means for rotatable supporting the first encoder wheel, thereby permitting free rotation of the first encoder wheel about the second axis of rotation; a plurality of uniformly spaced marks disposed around at least a portion of the outside cylindrical surface of the first encoder wheel, wherein the marks comprise lines that are oriented parallel to the first encoder wheel's axis of rotation; and a first sensor, rigidly attached to the first bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the first encoder wheel rotates; a first support arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the first encoder wheel, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the first joint; a second support arm, having a proximal end, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the second revolute joint; a third revolute joint, having a third axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the second support arm; and further comprising a third anale encoder for measuring the rotation anale of the third joint; second bearing means for rotatable supporting the third revolute joint; means for kinematically constraining the second bearing means to a working surface; and coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the first, second and third angle encoders, for converting the output of the first, second and third angle encoders into a set of coordinates representing the position of the probe tip relative to a reference coordinate system; wherein the probe arm comprises a magnetic, three-point, kinematic pivot mount for coupling to a precision tooling ball; wherein the pivot mount is disposed near the distal end of the probe arm. 54. A highly-accurate, articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising: a probe arm, having a proximal end and a distal end; a probe tin attached to the distal end of the probe arm; a first revolute joint, having a first axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the probe arm, and comprising a first angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the first joint; a second revolute joint, comprising a second angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the second joint, the second angle encoder comprising: a first circular encoder wheel, having an outside cylindrical surface, and having a second axis of rotation oriented perpendicular to the first circular encoder wheel; first bearing means for rotatable supporting the first encoder wheel, thereby permitting free rotation of the first encoder wheel about the second axis of rotation; a plurality of uniformly spaced marks disposed around at least a portion of the outside cylindrical surface of the first encoder wheel, wherein the marks comprise lines that are oriented parallel to the first encoder wheel's axis of rotation; and a first sensor, rigidly attached to the first bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the first encoder wheel rotates; a first support arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the first encoder wheel, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the first joint; a second support arm, having a proximal end, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the second revolute joint; a third revolute joint, having a third axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the second support arm; and further comprising a third angle encoder for measuring the rotation anale of the third joint; second bearing means for rotatable supporting the third revolute joint; means for kinematically constraining the second bearing means to a working surface; and coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the first, second and third angle encoders, for converting the output of the first, second and third angle encoders into a set of coordinates representing the position of the probe tin relative to a reference coordinate system; wherein the coordinate processing means further comprises: memory means for storing a set of best-fit kinematic parameters; and processing means for using the set of best-fit kinematic parameters for computing the position of the probe tip; and wherein the coordinate processing means further comprises: memory means for storing a residual error map; and processing means for correcting, in real-time, the apparent position of the probe tip by using the residual error map to adjust the reported position of probe tip so that the actual error is reduced below an acceptable limit. 55. The apparatus of claim 54, wherein the acceptable limit is less than or equal to three microns. 56. A highly-accurate, articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising: a probe arm, having a proximal end and a distal end; a probe tip attached to the distal end of the probe arm; a first revolute joint, having a first axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the probe arm, and comprising a first angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the first joint; a second revolute joint, comprising a second angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the second joint, the second angle encoder comprising: a first circular encoder wheel, having an outside cylindrical surface, and having a second axis of rotation oriented perpendicular to the first circular encoder wheel; first bearing means for rotatably supporting the first encoder wheel, thereby permitting free rotation of the first encoder wheel about the second axis of rotation; a plurality of uniformly spaced marks disposed around at least a portion of the outside cylindrical surface of the first encoder wheel; and a first sensor, rigidly attached to the first bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the first encoder wheel rotates; a first support arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the first encoder wheel, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the first joint; a second support arm, having a proximal end, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the second revolute joint; a third revolute joint, having a third axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the second support arm; and further comprising a third angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the third joint; second bearing means for rotatably supporting the third revolute joint; means for kinematically constraining the second bearing means to a working surface; coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the first, second and third angle encoders, for converting the output of the first, second and third angle encoders into a set of coordinates representing the position of the probe tip relative to a reference coordinate system; a flexible encoder tape scale wrapped at least partially around the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel, wherein the plurality of marks are disposed on the flexible encoder tape scale, and wherein the plurality of marks comprise parallel lines spaced apart a distance equal to or greater than about 20 microns; an interpolator module operatively associated with the first sensor for electronically interpolating in-between two adjacent marks, wherein the interpolator module provides an effective line spacing that is greater than or equal to about 50 nm (0.05 microns); wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to, and intersecting with, the longitudinal axis of the second support arm; wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented parallel to the second axis of rotation; wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the probe arm; wherein the second axis of rotation is oriented parallel to the working surface; wherein the second axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to, and intersecting with, the third axis of rotation; wherein the third axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to the working surface; wherein the length of the first support arm and the length of the probe arm are substantially the same; wherein the first sensor comprises an optical detector; wherein the second bearing means comprises a bearing selected from the group consisting of an air bearing, a roller bearing, and a ball bearing; wherein the kinematic constraining means comprises: a base plate rigidly attached to the second bearing means, and three spherical mounting feet rigidly attached to the base, wherein the feet are arranged 120 degrees apart; and a kinematic mounting plate having three pairs of cylindrical pins, wherein each pair of pins are aligned essentially parallel to each other; and further wherein each pair of pins is arranged 120 degrees apart, for accepting and kinematically constraining the three spherical mounting feet attached to the base plate; wherein the effective angular resolution of the second angle encoder is greater than or equal to 3 counts per arcsecond; wherein the probe arm and the first support arm comprise an electrically insulating, stiff material having a low thermal expansion coefficient and a high elastic modulus; wherein the electrically insulating, stiff material essentially comprises alumina; wherein the first bearing means for rotatably supporting the first circular encoder wheel comprises a pair of ball bearing assemblies having a quality grade selected from the group consisting of ABEC 7, ABEC 8, and ABEC 9; wherein the probe arm comprises a hollow tubular structure; wherein the probe tip comprises a precision gauge sphere; wherein the apparatus comprises a structural metal alloy having essentially zero thermal expansion coefficient, selected from the group consisting of INVAR-36, SUPER INVAR, and KOVAR; wherein the first circular encoder wheel has a diameter greater than or equal to about 4.8 inches; wherein the first circular encoder wheel comprises a plurality of weight-reducing penetrations; wherein the first angle encoder comprises a lightweight laser optical angle encoder capable of generating at least 81,000 counts/revolution; which has a diameter less than or equal to about 1.5 inches and a weight less than or equal to about 80 grams; wherein the apparatus further comprises at least one metal-to-metal concentric joint assembled by using an interference-type shrink-fit process; wherein the coordinate processing means further comprises: memory means for storing a set of best-fit kinematic parameters; processing means for using the set of best-fit kinematic parameters for computing the position of the probe tip; memory means for storing a residual error map; and processing means for correcting, in real-time, the apparent position of the probe tip by using the residual error map to adjust the reported position of probe tip so that the actual error is reduced below an acceptable limit; wherein the first support arm comprises a pair of hollow tubes, oriented parallel to each other; and further comprising a riser block rigidly attached to the first circular encoder wheel and rigidly attached to the proximal end of the first support arm; wherein the riser block is rigidly attached to the first circular encoder wheel by using the following manufacturing steps, in the order presented: a) rough machining the first circular encoder wheel and the riser block; b) clamping together the rough-machined first circular encoder wheel and the rough-machined riser block to form a first subassembly; c) precision match drilling a first central bore hole into the first subassembly, the hole being aligned with the second axis of rotation of the first circular encoder wheel; and d) precision finishing the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel; wherein the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel comprises a precisely ground or lapped surface; wherein the diameter of the first circular encoder wheel has a machining tolerance of better than +/-0.001 inches; and further has a roundness, concentricity, and parallelism machining tolerance equal to 0.0005 inches; wherein the diameter of the first central bore hole has a machining tolerance equal to +0.000 or -0.0002 inches; and further comprising a first shaft rigidly attached to first subassembly by interference shrink fitting the first shaft into the match-drilled first central bore hole; and further comprising at least two ball or roller bearing assemblies interference shrink fitted into the first bearing means. 57. A hiqhly-accurate, articulated coordinate measuring machine, comprising: a probe arm, having a proximal end and a distal end, a probe tip attached to the distal end of the probe arm; a first revolute joint, having a first axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the probe arm, and comprising a first angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the first joint; a second revolute joint, comprising a second angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the second joint, the second angle encoder comprising: a first circular encoder wheel, having an outside cylindrical surface, and having a second axis of rotation oriented perpendicular to the first circular encoder wheel; first bearing means for rotatable supporting the first encoder wheel, thereby permitting free rotation of the first encoder wheel about the second axis of rotation; a plurality of uniformly spaced marks disposed around at least a portion of the outside cylindrical surface of the first encoder wheel, wherein the marks comprise lines that are oriented parallel to the first encoder wheel's axis of rotation; and a first sensor, rigidly attached to the first bearing means, for detecting the motion of at least some of the marks as the first encoder wheel rotates; a first support arm, having a proximal end rigidly attached to the first encoder wheel, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the first joint; a second support arm, having a proximal end, and having a distal end rigidly attached to the second revolute joint; a third revolute joint, having a third axis of rotation, rigidly attached to the proximal end of the second support arm; and further comprising a third angle encoder for measuring the rotation angle of the third joint; second bearing means for rotatable supporting the third revolute joint; means for kinematically constraining the second bearing means to a working surface; and coordinate processing means, operatively connected to the first, second and third angle encoders, for converting the output of the first, second and third angle encoders into a set of coordinates representing the position of the probe tip relative to a reference coordinate system; further comprising; a flexible encoder tape scale wrapped at least partially around the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel, wherein the plurality of marks are disposed on the flexible encoder tape scale, and wherein the plurality of marks comprise parallel lines spaced apart a distance equal to or greater than about 20 microns; an interpolator module operatively associated with the first sensor for electronically interpolating in-between two adjacent marks, wherein the interpolator module provides an effective line spacing that is greater than or equal to about 50 nm (0.05 microns); wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to, and intersecting with, the longitudinal axis of the second support arm; wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented parallel to the second axis of rotation; wherein the first axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the probe arm; wherein the second axis of rotation is oriented parallel to the working surface; wherein the second axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to, and intersecting with, the third axis of rotation; wherein the third axis of rotation is oriented perpendicular to the working surface; wherein the first sensor comprises a detector selected from the group consisting of an optical detector, an inductive detector, and a magnetic detector; wherein the second bearing means comprises a bearing selected from the group consisting of an air bearing, a roller bearing, and a ball bearing; wherein the effective angular resolution of the second angle encoder is better than or equal to 3 counts per arcsecond; wherein the apparatus comprises a structural metal alloy having essentially zero thermal expansion coefficient, selected from the group consisting of INVAR-36, SUPER INVAR, and KOVAR; wherein the first circular encoder wheel has a diameter greater than or equal to about 4.5 inches; wherein the first circular encoder wheel comprises a plurality of weight-reducing penetrations; wherein the first angle encoder comprises a lightweight laser optical angle encoder capable of generating at least 81,000 counts/revolution; which has a diameter less than or equal to about 1.5 inches and a weight less than or equal to about 80 grams; wherein the coordinate processing means further comprises: memory means for storing a set of best-fit kinematic parameters; processing means for using the set of best-fit kinematic parameters for computing the position of the probe tip; memory means for storing a residual error map; and processing means for correcting, in real-time, the apparent position of the probe tip by using the residual error map to adjust the reported position of probe tip so that the actual error is reduced below an acceptable limit; and wherein the outside cylindrical surface of the first circular encoder wheel comprises a precisely ground or lapped surface. 