The present invention is a method and apparatus for providing a low-cost and less complex micro-environment for treating a substrate using an impingement cryogenic or steam spray jet. A substrate and fixture is contained within an open-architecture prophylactic or cleaning cell whereupon the substrate and fixture is continuously bathed in a regenerated and re-circulating stream of filtered, inert, dry, heated and ionized atmosphere which bathes both the entire substrate and fixture. This prevents the intrusion of contaminating ambient atmospheres onto critical surfaces. The cleaning cavity is constantly regenerated and re-circulated through the cleaning cell to maintain a majority of the clean atmosphere wherein the clean cavity is pressurized slightly with a small volume of clean dry air or inert gas to prevent the intrusion of ambient atmosphere into the cleaning cell. A small exhaust duct removes the partial pressure of atmosphere from the open regions of the cleaning cavity, capturing the escaping cavity atmosphere. The exemplary spray cleaning applicator of the present invention provides a majority of the make-up atmosphere required to operate the cleaning cell. The treated surface is thus isolated and protected from the ambient atmosphere and contaminants contained therein prior to, during and following application of a treatment spray. The present invention allows for the simultaneous application of a variety of conventional surface treatment agents such as dry steam or snow to a critical surface. Finally, the present invention controls and maintains the quality of the environment immediately within the vicinity of the substrate being treated, and the ambient atmosphere.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus to be used while treating a surface of a substrate positioned on a surface of a conveyor with a snow or steam spray cleaning device comprising: a shroud defining an internal cavity having a longitudinal axis for encasing at least a portion of the conveyor, a first inlet in the shroud for providing access to a first location on the conveyor surface; an outlet in the shroud, spaced apart from the first inlet, for providing access to a second location on the conveyor surface; a clean air plenum disposed within the internal cavity on one side of the conveyor surface and oriented to deliver a laminar sheath of clean air from behind the substrate which flows at an angle which is not incident to the substrate surface; a clean air inlet for supplying clean air to internal cavity through the clean air plenum; a return air plenum disposed within the internal cavity opposing the clean air plenum; an outlet pipe for withdrawing air from the internal cavity through the return air plenum for; and a second inlet in the shroud for the snow or spray cleaning device. 