A system for packaging articles, such as stacks of greeting cards or the like, includes an article handler, a group of film handlers, and a side sealer. Each of the film handlers includes a film roll holder, which is adapted to hold a roll of folded over film having a closed side and an open side. The film handler also includes a film holding arrangement adapted to hold open the film along an open side, and cross cutter including an end cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned transverse to the length of the film and adapted to cut and seal an end of the film adjacent an end of an article. The article handler is positioned adjacent the film handlers. The article handler is adapted to deliver an article to a film handler selected to have a film width greater than the width of the article and to insert the article into the film holding arrangement of the selected film handler through the open side of said film and move the article and film past the cross cutter, whereupon the end cutting and sealing blade is actuated to cut and seal said film adjacent an end of the article. The side sealer includes a side cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned cut to and seal the open side of said film adjacent a side of the article.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for packaging articles, said articles having ends and sides, which comprises: an article handler for handling articles to be packaged, said article handler including a first gripper arranged to grip said articles to be packaged; a film handler positioned adjacent said article handler, said film handler including: a film roll holder for holding a film roll, said film having a length and a width, said film being folded along the length thereof to have an open side and closed side; a film holding arrangement positioned to receive film from said film roll holder, said film holding arrangement being adapted to hold open said film along said open side; a cross cutter positioned to receive film from said film holding arrangement, said cross cutter including an end cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned transverse to the length of said film and adapted to cut and seal an end of said film adjacent an end of said article; and, a side sealer positioned adjacent said article handler, said side sealer including a side cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned to cut and seal said open side of said film adjacent a side of said article, said side sealer including a second gripper positioned to receive an article from said first gripper with said film being sealed on either end of said article, said second gripper being arranged to position the side of said article adjacent said open side of said film adjacent said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said article handler includes a robot. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said film holding arrangement includes: a pair of spaced apart fingers positioned between said film roll holder and said cross cutter, said film being trained around said fingers to hold open said open side of said film. 4. The system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said film holding arrangement includes: a film guide positioned between said film roll holder and said spaced apart fingers, said film being trained through said film guide to hold closed said open side of said film. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said article comprises a stack of cards. 6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said side sealer includes: a plate having an opening therethrough, said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement being mounted to said plate, wherein said first gripper is arranged to insert an article with said film being sealed on either end of said article into said opening. 7. The system as claimed in claim 6, wherein said second gripper is positioned to receive an article with said film being sealed on either end of said article inserted by said first gripper through said opening and move said article to a position in which the side of the article adjacent said open side of said film is adjacent said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement. 8. A system for packaging articles, said articles having ends and sides, which comprises: a film handler including: a film roll holder for holding a film roll, said film having a length and a width, said film being folded along the length thereof to have an open side and closed side; a film holding arrangement positioned to receive film from said film roll holder, said film holding arrangement being adapted to hold open said film along said open side; a cross cutter positioned to receive film from said film holding arrangement, said cross cutter including an end cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned transverse to the length of said film and adapted to cut and seal an end of said film adjacent an end of said article; an article handler positioned adjacent said film handler, said article handler including a first gripper arranged to grip an article, said first gripper being adapted to insert an article into said film holding arrangement through said open side of said film and move said article and film past said cross cutter, whereupon said end cutting and sealing blade is actuated to cut and seal said film adjacent an end of said article; and, a side sealer positioned adjacent said article handler, said side sealer including a side cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned cut and seal said open side of said film adjacent a side of said article, said side sealer including a second gripper positioned to receive an article from said first gripper with said film being sealed on either end of said article, said second gripper being arranged to position the side of said article adjacent said open side of said film adjacent said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said article handler includes a robot. 10. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said film holding arrangement includes: a pair of spaced apart fingers positioned between said film roll holder and said cross cutter, said film being trained around said fingers to hold open said open side of said film. 11. The system as claimed in claim 10, wherein said film holding arrangement includes: a film guide positioned between said film roll holder and said spaced apart fingers, said film being trained through said film guide to hold closed said open side of said film. 12. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said article comprises a stack of cards. 13. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said side sealer includes: a plate having an opening therethrough, said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement being mounted to said plate, wherein said first gripper is arranged to insert an article with said film being sealed on either end of said article into said opening. 14. The system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said second gripper is positioned to receive an article with said film being sealed on either end of said article inserted by said first gripper through said opening and move said article to a position in which the side of the article adjacent said open side of said film is adjacent said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement. 15. A system for packaging articles, said articles having ends and sides, which comprises: a plurality of film handlers, each of said film handlers including: a film roll holder for holding a film roll, said film having a length and a width, said film being folded along the length thereof to have an open side and closed side; a film holding arrangement positioned to receive film from said film roll holder, said film holding arrangement being adapted to hold open said film along said open side; a cross cutter positioned to receive film from said film holding arrangement, said cross cutter including an end cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned transverse to the length of said film and adapted to cut and seal an end of said film adjacent an end of said article; wherein each of said film handlers handles film of a different width; an article handler positioned adjacent said film handlers, said article handler including a first gripper arranged to grip an article, said first gripper being adapted to deliver an article to a film handler selected to have a film width greater than the width of said article and to insert said article into said film holding arrangement of said selected film handler through said open side of said film and move said article and film past said cross cutter, whereupon said end cutting and sealing blade is actuated to cut and seal said film adjacent an end of said article; and, a side sealer positioned adjacent said article handler, said side sealer including a side cutting and sealing blade arrangement positioned to cut and seal said open side of said film adjacent a side of said article, said side sealer including a second gripper positioned to receive an article from said first gripper with said film being sealed on either end of said article, said gripper being arranged to position the side of said article adjacent said open side of said film adjacent said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement. 16. The system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said article handler includes a robot. 17. The system as claimed in claim 15, wherein each said film holding arrangement includes: a pair of spaced apart fingers positioned between said film roll holder and said cross cutter, said film being trained around said fingers to hold open said open side of said film. 18. The system as claimed in claim 17, wherein each said film holding arrangement includes: a film guide positioned between said film roll holder and said spaced apart fingers, said film being trained through said film guide to hold closed said open side of said film. 19. The system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said article comprises a stack of cards. 20. The system as claimed in claim 15, wherein said side sealer includes: a plate having an opening therethrough, said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement being mounted to said plate, wherein said first gripper is arranged to insert an article with said film being sealed on either end of said article into said opening. 21. The system as claimed in claim 20, wherein said second gripper is positioned to receive an article with said film being sealed on either end of said article inserted by said first gripper through said opening and move said article to a position in which the side of the article adjacent said open side of said film is adjacent said side cutting and sealing blade arrangement. 