A vacuum chamber used for processing articles, such as integrated circuit wafers, display panels, and the like, has a small load lock chamber formed at an opening in a wall of the chamber by a moveable article supporting surface within the chamber and a cover outside of the chamber. The supporting surface and cover are sealed to the chamber wall when urged against it. Articles placed into the load lock chamber, when the cover is opened, are moved into the vacuum chamber for processing by moving the supporting surface away from the wall after the cover has been closed and a vacuum established in the load lock chamber. Articles are removed from the vacuum chamber in a reverse manner. Various mechanisms are describe for moving the articles, including a particular robotic device that simultaneously swaps the positions of two articles between the supporting surface and a processing location within the vacuum chamber by first pulling the articles together and then rotating them in a half-circle. Integrated circuit wafers are preferably carried on a domed surface formed of wedge shaped pieces fit together on a frame, where the wedge shaped pieces and their wafers are individually removable from the frame for transfer to another frame at a different location.
Claims It is claimed: 1. Vacuum apparatus for treating articles, comprising: a housing forming adjacent vacuum processing and load lock chambers with a first opening therebetween and a second opening between the load lock chamber and outside of the housing, a surface within the processing chamber that is moveable between at least first and second positions, wherein the first surface position covers and seals said first opening, and wherein the second surface position is removed within the processing chamber a distance away from said wall in order to allow articles to be moved through the first opening between the processing and load lock chambers, a cover provided adjacent the second opening that is moveable between at least first and second positions, wherein the first cover position seals said second opening from the outside, and wherein the second cover position allows articles to be passed through the second opening between the load lock chamber and the outside, and at least one vacuum pump connectable (1) to reduce pressure within the processing chamber when either the surface or the cover are in their first positions, and (2) to reduce pressure within a load lock chamber when both of the surface and the cover are in their said first positions. 2. The vacuum apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second openings are located at opposite ends of a passage through in a top wall of the housing and the surface is vertically moveable between its said first and second positions. 3. A vacuum chamber and a load lock chamber through which articles are moved into and out of the vacuum chamber for processing, comprising: a housing enclosing a compartment that includes an opening through a top wall thereof through which the articles may be moved, an article support surface within the compartment that is moveable between at least first and second positions, wherein the first support surface position covers and seals said opening by contacting an underside of the top wall around the opening in a manner that articles may be moved through the opening between outside of the housing and said surface, and wherein the second support surface position is removed within the compartment a distance downward away from said top wall, a cover provided outside of the compartment that is moveable between at least first and second positions, wherein the first cover position covers and seals said opening by contacting a top side of the top wall around the opening, and wherein the second cover position is removed a distance away from the top wall sufficient to allow articles to be passed through the opening, at least one vacuum pump connectable (1) to reduce pressure within the vacuum chamber that is formed within the compartment when either the article support surface or the cover are in their first positions, and (2) to reduce pressure within the load lock chamber that is formed within the compartment when both of the article support surface and cover are in their said first positions, and a transport mechanism within the housing that moves articles between athe article support surface when in its said second support surface position and a processing location removed from the second support surface position within the vacuum chamber. 4. The combination of claim 3, wherein the transport mechanism includes at least one pivotal arm that simultaneously engages two articles that are respectively on the article support surface when in its said second position and in the processing location, wherein rotation of the pivotal arm substantially one-hundred eighty degrees about an axis thereof exchanges positions of the two articles. 5. The combination of claim 4, wherein the transport mechanism also includes a sub-mechanism that cooperates with the pivotal arm to move two articles linearly toward and away from each other, wherein rotation of the pivotal arm substantially one-hundred eighty degrees about an axis thereof exchanges positions of the two articles when held toward each other. 6. The combination of claim 5, wherein the sub-mechanism includes a swinging arm to which the axis of said pivotal arm is attached. 7. The combination of claim 5, wherein the sub-mechanism includes additional arms pivotally mounted at ends of said pivotal arm. 8. The combination of claim 3, wherein the transport mechanism includes a carriage that moves the article support surface between the second support surface position and the processing location, said carriage including an opening for a mechanism to extend therethrough to move the article support surface between said first and second positions and be withdrawn below the carriage to allow its said lateral movement while the support surface rests thereon. 9. The combination of claim 3, wherein the transport mechanism includes a third position within the vacuum chamber for temporarily positioning articles while other articles are moved between the second support surface position and the processing location. 10. The combination of any one of claims 3-9, which comprises articles in the form of wedge shaped segments of a circular domed wafer carrier. 11. The combination of claim 10, wherein the wedge shaped segments are truncated along an edge opposite of a curved edge. 12. A mechanism for moving articles between a first position in a load lock chamber and a second position in an adjacent chamber that processes the articles, comprising: an arm mounted to pivot about a point intermediate of said first and second locations, a sub-mechanism cooperating with the pivot arm that moves articles to a position closer together than when positioned at the first and second locations, and a control of the movement of the arm and sub-mechanism which first causes the sub-mechanism to move articles from said first and second locations to said positions closer together, then causes the pivot arm to rotate substantially one-hundred eighty degrees about its pivot point and thereafter causes the sub-mechanism to move the articles from said positions closer together to the first and second locations, whereby the positions of the articles at the first and second locations are exchanged. 13. The mechanism of claim 12, wherein the sub-mechanism includes a swinging arm to which the axis of said pivot arm is attached. 14. The mechanism of claim 12, wherein the sub-mechanism includes additional arms pivotally mounted at ends of said pivot arm. 15. The mechanism of any one of claims 12-14, which comprises articles in the form of wedge shaped segments of a circular domed wafer carrier. 16. The mechanism of claim 15, wherein the wedge shaped segments are truncated along an edge opposite of a curved edge. 17. A carrier of integrated circuit wafers, comprising: a circular frame, a plurality of wedge shaped pieces supported on the frame to collectively form a domed surface across which wafers are positionable, and an carrying element attached to the individual wedge shaped pieces in a position such that the wedge shaped piece with wafers thereon is balanced when lifted off the frame by attachment only with the carrying element. 18. The carrier of claim 17, wherein pointed ends of the individual wedge shaped pieces are truncated. 