A robotically manipulable sample handling tool, such as a colony picking head or robotic pipetting tool, includes needles arranged on the tool. Actuators may be associated with each needle to control flow for the needle, e.g., to move the needle and/or draw fluid into/expel fluid from the needle. The actuators may be arranged so that needles are individually controlled by a controller that outputs a number of control signals that is less than the total number of needles. The actuators may be membrane valves that receive two signals from a controller; a first signal that opens or closes the valve, and a second signal that causes fluid flow through the valve to actuate a needle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotically manipulable material handling tool, comprising: a tool body; a plurality of needles mounted to the tool body, each of the plurality of needles constructed and arranged to remove material from a work area and deposit material on a work area; a plurality of actuators, each of the plurality of actuators associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of needles and constructed and arranged to actuate the corresponding needle, the plurality of actuators grouped into a first number of control groups and a second number of drive groups, each control group and drive group having two or more actuators, and each control group and drive group having only one actuator in common, the first and second numbers being greater than one; a plurality of control switches mounted to the tool body, each of the plurality of control switches associated with a corresponding control group of actuators and adapted to provide a control signal to the actuators in the corresponding control group of actuators; and a plurality of drive switches mounted to the tool body, each of the plurality of drive switches associated with a corresponding drive group and adapted to provide a drive signal to the actuators in the corresponding drive group; wherein the plurality of control switches and the plurality of drive switches are constructed and arranged to provide control signals and drive signals, respectively, to individually actuate each of the plurality of needles. 2. The tool of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of actuators includes a membrane valve that controls fluid flow with respect to a corresponding needle. 3. The tool of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of control switches includes a valve that provides an air pressure signal to membrane valves in a control group corresponding to the valve. 4. The tool of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of drive switches includes a valve that provides a fluid flow to membrane valves in a drive group corresponding to the valve. 5. The tool of claim 2, wherein the plurality of needles and corresponding membrane valves are arranged in an M.times.N array with control groups of membrane valves arranged in rows and drive groups of membrane valves arranged in columns. 6. The tool of claim 5, wherein the plurality of control switches includes M valves that each provide an air pressure signal to membrane valves in a corresponding row. 7. The tool of claim 5, wherein the plurality of drive switches includes N valves that each provide a fluid flow to membrane valves in a corresponding column. 8. The tool of claim 5, wherein actuation of a needle includes extending the needle from the tool body. 9. The tool of claim 5, wherein actuation of a needle includes one of drawing fluid into and expelling fluid from the needle. 10. A robotically manipulable material handling tool, comprising: a tool body; a first number of needles mounted to the tool body, each of the needles constructed and arranged to remove material from: a work area and deposit material on a work area; a first number of membrane valves, each valve associated with a corresponding needle and controlling flow for the needle; and a valve controller constructed and arranged to control each of the membrane valves by providing a maximum of a second number of signals to the membrane valves, the second number being less than the first number; wherein the valve controller is adapted to control the membrane valves to individually actuate each needle. 11. The tool of claim 10, wherein the valve controller includes a plurality of first valves that each provide an air pressure signal to a corresponding group of membrane valves to control the membrane valves between open and closed states. 12. The tool of claim 11, wherein the valve controller includes a plurality of second valves that each provide a fluid flow to corresponding groups membrane valves. 13. The tool of claim 10, wherein the plurality of needles and corresponding membrane valves are arranged in an M.times.N array with control groups of membrane valves arranged in rows and drive groups of membrane valves arranged in columns. 14. The tool of claim 13, wherein the valve controller includes M valves that each provide an air pressure signal to membrane valves in a corresponding row. 15. The tool of claim 13, wherein the valve controller includes N valves that each provide a fluid flow to membrane valves in a corresponding column. 16. The tool of claim 13, wherein actuation of a needle includes extending the needle from the tool body. 17. The tool of claim 13, wherein actuation of a needle includes one of drawing fluid into and expelling fluid from the needle. 18. The tool of claim 13, wherein the valve controller is mounted to the tool body. 19. The tool of claim 10, wherein the valve controller is adapted to control the membrane valves to simultaneously control flow for a plurality of needles. 20. A robotically manipulable material handling tool, comprising: a tool body; a first number of needles mounted to the tool body, each of the needles constructed and arranged to remove material from a work area and deposit material on a work area; a first number of actuators, each actuator associated with a corresponding needle and constructed and arranged to cause the corresponding needle to move relative to the tool body; and a controller mounted to the tool body and constructed and arranged to control each of the actuators by providing a maximum of a second number of signals to the actuators, the second number being less than the first number; wherein the controller is adapted to control the actuators and individually move needles relative to the tool body, and the controller is adapted to control the actuators to simultaneously move a plurality of needles relative to the tool body. 21. A robotically manipulable material handling tool, comprising: a tool body; a plurality of needles mounted to the tool body in M columns and N rows, each of the needles constructed and arranged to remove material from a work area and deposit material on a work area; a plurality of addressing valves, at least one addressing valve associated with a corresponding needle and controlling flow for the needle; and a plurality of switches that provide signals to the addressing valves, the number of switches equal to M+N; wherein the plurality of switches are adapted to provide a number of signals equal to M+N to the addressing valves to individually control flow for each needle. 22. The tool of claim 21, wherein the plurality of switches are mounted to the tool body. 23. The tool of claim 21, wherein the plurality of switches includes M switches associated with M columns of needles, each of the M switches corresponding to and providing signals to valves for a corresponding column, and the plurality of switches further includes N switches associated with N rows of needles, each of the N switches corresponding to and providing signals to valves for a corresponding row. 24. The tool of claim 23, wherein the plurality of switches include fluid valves that provide at least one of a fluid pressure and a fluid flow to corresponding addressing valves. 25. The tool of claim 21, wherein the plurality of switches are adapted to provide signals to the addressing valves to simultaneously control flow for a plurality of needles. 26. A robotically manipulable material handling tool, comprising: a tool body; a plurality of needles mounted to the tool body in M columns and N rows, each of the needles constructed and arranged to remove material from a work area and deposit material on a work area; a plurality of membrane valves, each membrane valve associated with a corresponding needle and controlling a flow for the needle to move the needle or cause fluid to move in the needle; a plurality of control valves that provide fluid control signals to the membrane valves, each control valve associated with a corresponding column of needles and providing a fluid control signal to control the membrane valves corresponding to the column of needles between open and closed states; and a plurality of drive valves that provide fluid drive signals to the membrane valves, each drive valve associated with a corresponding row of needles and providing a fluid drive signal to move needles or cause fluid to move in needles in the corresponding row; wherein the number of control and drive valves is equal to M+N, the number of signals from the control and drive valves is equal to M+N, and the control and drive valves are adapted to provide signals to the membrane valves to individually control one of movement of and flow in each needle. 