A pallet system 10 for use in a manufacturing process. The pallet system includes several pallets 14 which are adapted to receive and support a portion of a product, such as a vehicle underbody 12. The system 10 uses simplified pallets 14 having externally actuated clamping assemblies 62, 64, 66, and 68. A docking station 16 receives the pallets 14 and includes a pair of robots 24, 26 which detect the proper positioning of the underbody 12 upon the pallet 14 and externally activate the clamping assemblies 62, 64, 66, and 68 thereby securing the underbody 12 to the pallet 14. A controller 82 is communicatively connected to the robots 24, 26 and activates a conveyor assembly 20 which transports the pallet 14 to manufacturing stations 21 once the underbody 12 is properly secured to the pallet 14.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pallet system comprising: at least one pallet having a plurality of pneumatic clamping assemblies and a plurality of support members which are adapted to receive and support a product; a docking station which receives said at least one pallet; at least one robot which is disposed within said docking station in close proximity to said at least one pallet, said at least one robot includes at least one sensor and at least one selectively movable arm, wherein said at least one robot senses the position of said product upon said at least one pallet and communicates said sensed position; and a controller which is communicatively coupled to said at least one robot, wherein said controller receives said communicated sensed position from said at least one robot, effective to determine whether said product is positioned correctly upon said at least one pallet and, upon a determination of a correctly positioned product, said controller communicates a signal to said at least one robot, wherein said at least one robot receives said communicated signal from said controller, effective to activate said at least one arm, wherein said at least one arm selectively engages and actuates each of said plurality of pneumatic clamping assemblies, thereby securing said product to said at least one pallet in a correct position. 2. The pallet system of claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of clamping assemblies includes a pneumatic cylinder. 3. The pallet system of claim 1 wherein said at least one robot actuates said plurality of clamping assemblies only if said sensor detects that said product is properly positioned upon said pallet. 4. The pallet system of claim 3 wherein said sensor comprises an optical sensor. 5. The pallet system of claim 3 wherein said sensor comprises a camera. 6. The pallet system of claim 3 further comprising a conveyor assembly which selectively transports said at least one pallet. 7. The pallet system of claim 6 wherein said product comprises a vehicle underbody. 8. A pallet system for use in a vehicle manufacturing process, said pallet system comprising: a pallet which selectively receives and supports a vehicle structure, and which includes a plurality of first and second pneumatic clamping assemblies; a docking station which receives said pallet; a first robot which is disposed on a first side of said docking station, and which includes a sensor which is effective to detect whether a first portion of said vehicle structure is properly positioned on said pallet and to generate a first signal in response thereto, and being further effective to selectively actuate said plurality of first pneumatic clamping assemblies; a second robot which is disposed on a second side of said docking station, and which includes a sensor which is effective to detect whether a second portion of said vehicle structure is properly positioned on said pallet and to generate a second signal in response thereto, and being further effective to selectively actuate said plurality of second pneumatic clamping assemblies; and a controller which is communicatively coupled to said first and second robots and which is effective to receive said first and second signals, to determine whether said vehicle structure is properly positioned upon said pallet based upon said received signals, and if said vehicle structure is properly positioned on said pallet, to generate signals to said first and second robots, effective to cause said first and second robots to respectively actuate said plurality of first and second clamping assemblies, thereby securing said vehicle structure to said pallet. 9. The pallet system of claim 8 wherein said vehicle structure comprises an underbody. 10. The pallet system of claim 8 further comprising: a notification device which is communicatively coupled to said controller; and wherein said controller is further effective to generate a signal to said notification device if said vehicle structure is not properly positioned on said pallet, effective to activate said notification device. 11. The pallet system of claim 10 wherein said notification device comprises a visual notification device. 12. The pallet system of claim 10 wherein said notification device comprises an audible notification device. 