The invention is directed to an ultrasonic testing system. The system tests a manufactured part for various physical attributes, including specific flaws, defects, or composition of materials. The part can be housed in a gantry system that holds the part stable. An energy generator illuminates the part within energy and the part emanates energy from that illumination. Based on the emanations from the part, the system can determined precisely where the part is in free space. The energy illumination device and the receptor have a predetermined relationship in free space. This means the location of the illumination mechanism and the reception mechanism is known. Additionally, the coordinates of the actual testing device also have a predetermined relationship to the illumination device, the reception device, or both. Thus, when one fixes the points in free space where the part is relative to either of the illumination device or the reception device, one can fix the point and/or orientation of the testing device to that part as well. It should be noted that the results of the point and/or orientation detection may also be used in an actuator and control system. If the position of the testing device needs to be altered with respect to the tested object, the control system and actuator may use the results of this determination to move the testing device relative to the tested object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system that guides at least one beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the at least one beam of light at an object under test, comprising: at least one remote light source that generates the at least one beam of light; a mechanical armature operable to receive the at least one beam of light from said at least one remote light source and transmit said at least one beam of light along axes of motion of said mechanical armature via an optical transmission channel, and wherein said mechanical armature operates to deliver the at least one beam of light to any location within a workspace; a positioning controller operable to direct that said mechanical armature be positioned according to an optical scan plan; an alignment fixture within said optical transmission channel coupled to a position feedback sensor used to determine if the at least one beam of light is obstructed within said mechanical armature; a first optical assemble that directs the at least one beam of light to the object under test, wherein at least one beam of light generates ultrasonic displacements in said object under test; an optical receiver operable to collect light incident from the at least one beam of light on said object under test and modulated by said ultrasonic displacements in said object under test; and a processor operable to determine from said collected light and display an internal structure of said object under test. 2. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, wherein said mechanical armature further comprises a plurality of segments pivitolly connected and operated using actuators that direct said mechanical armature within said workspace. 3. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, wherein said beam of light comprises a laser beam. 4. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, wherein said first optical assemble comprises a beam conditioning system that minimizes divergence of said at least one beam of light as the at least one beam of light exits said mechanical armature. 5. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, wherein said first optical assemble comprises a beam conditioning system that minimizes divergence of said at least one beam of light as the at least one beam of light exits said mechanical armature. 6. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanic system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, wherein said optical channels further comprise comprises a beam conditioning system that minimizes divergence of said at least one beam of light as the at least one beam of light propogates within said optical channels. 7. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, further comprising a rotation platform operable to further direct the at least one beam of light to the object under test. 8. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, wherein the mechanical armature comprises a robotic-type armature. 9. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1, wherein the mechanical armature comprises an industrial crane. 10. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1 wherein said axes of motion comprise gantry members pivitolly connected to allow for freedom of movement in multiple directions. 11. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1 wherein said position feedback sensor emits an alignment signal. 12. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1 that provides for ultrasonic testing of the object under test from a first field of view, and at least one additional field of view oriented normally to said first field of view. 13. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 1 wherein said at least one remote light source comprises a CO.sub.2 gas laser. 14. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 11 wherein at least one mirror directs the beam of light between said optical transmission channels. 15. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 14, wherein said at least one mirror is located at connection points of said mechanical armature. 16. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 14, wherein actuators adjust an angular alignment of said at least one mirrors in response to said alignment signals. 17. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 16, wherein adjusting said angular alignment of said at least one mirror provides for closed-loop error correction in real time. 18. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 3 further comprising a laser beam conditioning system that minimizes divergence of said laser beam within said mechanical armature. 19. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 18 wherein said laser beam conditioning system comprises at least one lens at predetermined locations along a propagation path of said laser beam wherein said at least one lens reshapes said laser beam as said laser beam propagates. 20. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 19 wherein said at least one lens is positioned within said optical transmission channels. 21. The system that guides a beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directs the beam of light at an object as in claim 18 wherein said laser beam conditioning system comprises at least one optical element selected from the group consisting of varying apertures, gratings, and crystals. 22. The system of claim 1 wherein said optical scan plan derives CAD data on said object under test. 23. A method of guiding at least one beam of light through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directing the at least one beam of light at an object under test, comprising the steps of: generating at least one beam of light from a remote light source; injecting said at least one beam of light into a mechanical armature; transmitting said at least one beam of light along axes of motion of said mechanical armature via an optical transmission channel, wherein said mechanical armature operates to deliver the at least one beam of light to any location within a workspace; directing said mechanical armature be positioned according to an optical scan plan by a positioning controller; determining from an alignment fixture coupled to a position feedback sensor if the at least one beam of light is obstructed within said mechanical armature; directing with a first optical assemble the at least one beam of light to the object under test, wherein said at least one beam of light generates ultrasonic displacements in said object under test; collecting phase modulated light scattered by said ultrasonic displacements; and processing said phase modulated light to determine and display an internal structure of said object under test. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said mechanical armature further comprises a plurality of segments pivitolly connected and operated using actuators that direct said mechanical armature within said workspace. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein said beam of light comprises a laser beam. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising the step of conditioning the beam of light to minimize divergence of said at least one beam of light as the at least one beam of light exits said mechanical armature. 27. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of directing the at least one beam of light at the object under test with a rotation platform. 28. The method of claim 23 wherein said axes of motion comprise gantry members pivitolly connected to allow for freedom of movement in multiple directions. 29. The method of claim 23 that provides for ultrasonic testing of the object under test from a first field of view, and at least one additional field of view oriented normally to said first field of view. 30. The method of claim 23 wherein said at least one remote light source comprises a CO.sub.2 gas laser. 31. The method of claim 23 wherein at least one mirror directs the beam of light between said optical transmission channels. 32. The method of claim 23 further comprising the steps of: modeling said object under test with CAD or emperical methods; determining an orientation of said object under test relative to said mechanical armature; and developing said optical scan plan based on said step of modeling an object under test and determining an orientation of said object under test. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising the steps of: locating said object under test within said workspace; and correcting said optical scan plan for positioning errors within said workspace. 34. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of mapping said internal structure of said object under test to a model of said object under test. 35. A method of guiding at least one laser beam through axes of a mechanical positioning system and directing the at least one laser beam at an object under test, comprising the steps of: modeling said object under test with CAD or emperical methods; determining an orientation of said object under test relative to said mechanical armature; developing said optical scan plan based on said step of modeling an object under test and determining an orientation of said object under test; generating at least one laser beam from a remote light source; injecting said at least one laser beam into a mechanical armature; transmitting said at least one laser beam along axes of motion of said mechanical armature via an optical transmission channel, wherein said mechanical armature operates to deliver the at least one laser beam to any location within a workspace; determining an orientation of said object under test relative to said mechanical armature; developing said optical scan plan based on said step of modeling an object under test and determining an orientation of said object under test; directing said mechanical armature be positioned according to an optical scan plan by a positioning controller; determining from an alignment fixture coupled to a position feedback sensor if the at least one laser beam is obstructed within said mechanical armature; directing with a first optical assemble the at least one laser beam to the object under test, wherein said at least one laser beam generates ultrasonic displacements in said object under test; collecting phase modulated light scattered by said ultrasonic displacements; and processing said phase modulated light to determine and display an internal structure of said object under test. 36. The method of claim 35, further comprising the step of conditioning the at least one laser beam to minimize divergence. 37. The method of claim 36 further comprising the step of directing the at least one laser beam at the object under test with a rotation platform. 38. The method of claim 37, further comprising the steps of: locating said object under test within said workspace; and correcting said optical scan plan for positioning errors within said workspace. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising the step of mapping said internal structure of said object under test to a model of said object under test. 