A robotic bending apparatus for bending archwires and other types of elongate, bendable medical devices into a desired configuration includes a first gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool. The first gripping tool can be either fixed with respect to a base or table for the robot or positioned at the end of robot arm. The moveable gripping tool is mounted to the end of a moveable robot arm having a proximal portion also mounted to the base. The robot preferably comprises a six axis bending robot, in which the distal end of the moveable arm can move relative to the fixed gripping tool about three translational axes and three rotational axes. The gripping tools preferably incorporate force sensors which are used to determine overbends needed to get the desired final shape of the archwire. The robot may also include a resistive heating system in which current flows through the wire while the wire is held in a bent condition to heat the wire and thereby retain the bent shape of the wire. A magazine for holding a plurality of straight archwires needing to be bent and a conveyor system for receiving the wires after the bending process is complete are also described. The robot bending system is able to form archwires with any required second and third order bends quickly and with high precision. As such, it is highly suitable for use in a precision appliance-manufacturing center manufacturing a large number of archwires (or other medical devices or appliances) for a distributed base of clinics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of bending an orthodontic appliance performed by an automated bending machine having first and second gripping tools, comprising the step of: a) gripping said appliance with said first gripping tool such that a portion of said appliance projects beyond said first gripping tool; b) gripping said portion of said appliance with said second gripping tool, said second gripping tool independently moveable relative to said first gripping tool; c) releasing the gripping of said appliance by said first gripping tool; d) moving said moveable gripping tool while gripping said portion of said appliance so as to draw said appliance through said first gripping tool a predetermined amount; e) said first gripping tool again gripping said orthodontic appliance after said step of moving in step d) is performed, and f) moving said second gripping tool relative to said first gripping tool so as to place a bend in said appliance having a desired configuration. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement of step f) is performed such that a constant bend segment length is maintained by said first gripping tool and said second gripping tool. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: measuring the forces created by said orthodontic appliance during the performance of step f) or after step f) has been completed, and performing additional movement of said second gripping tool depending on the forces measured. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step f) comprises a series of bending steps, and wherein a measurement of the shape of the appliance is performed after each of said steps in said series of bending steps. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said step f) comprises a simultaneous combination of a linear movement and a rotational movement of said second gripping tool. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of the heating said appliance during the performance of step f) or after completion of step f). 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said step of heating comprises the step of flowing a current through said appliance. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the appliance comprises a wire and wherein the method further comprises the following steps: g) releasing the gripping of said wire by said first gripping tool; h) moving said second gripping tool along a translation axis a predetermined amount; i) re-gripping said wire with said first gripping tool; j) releasing the second gripping tool from said wire; k) moving said second gripping tool to a location adjacent to said first gripping tool and gripping said wire at said location; l) repeating the performance of steps c), d), e) and f) so as to form a second bend in said wire. 9. A method of being an orthodontic appliance, comprising the steps of: a) gripping said appliance with a first gripping tool of an automated bending machine such that a portion of said appliance projects beyond said first gripping tool, said first gripping tool comprising a pair of opposed gripping elements moveable relative to each other to thereby grip and release said orthodontic appliance; b) gripping said portion of said appliance with a second gripping tool of said automated bending machine, said second gripping tool independently moveable relative to said first gripping tool, said second gripping tool comprising a pair of opposed gripping elements moveable relative to each other to thereby grip and release said orthodontic appliance; and c) moving said second gripping tool relative to said first gripping tool in accordance with controls supplied to said automated bending machine so as to place a bend in said portion of said appliance having a desired configuration. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the movement of step c) is performed such that a constant bend segment length for said portion of said appliance is maintained by said first gripping tool and said second gripping tool. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising the steps of: measuring the forces created by said orthodontic appliance during the performance of step c) or after step c) has been completed, and performing additional movement of said second gripping tool relative to said first gripping tool depending on the forces measured. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein step c) comprises a series of bending steps, and wherein a measurement of the shape of the appliance is performed after each of said steps in said series of bending steps. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein said step c) comprises a simultaneous combination of a linear movement and a rotational movement of said second gripping tool. 14. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of heating said appliance during the performance of step c) or after completion of step c). 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said step of heating comprises the step of flowing a current through said appliance. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the appliance comprises a wire and wherein the method further comprises the following steps: d) releasing the gripping of said wire by said first gripping tool; e) advancing a second portion of said wire through said first gripping tool; f) re-gripping said wire by said first gripping tool; g) re-gripping said wire with said second gripping tool in a new location on said wire between said first gripping tool and said portion previously bent in step c), and h) moving said second gripping tool relative to said first gripping tool in accordance with controls supplied to said automated bending machine so as to place a second bend in said second portion of said appliance having a desired configuration. 