A robotic module for a toy construction system includes a housing enclosing a gear mechanism and an actuator connected to a pivot mechanism to supply operational power for rotation. An energy storage device supplies power to the actuator, which rotates in response to instructions received from a control unit connected to the actuator. A connection plate forms a connection between at least two of the modules. At least one position sensor is provided to sense the arrangement of the modules connected together.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic module for a toy construction system comprising: a housing having not less than three connection surfaces integrally attached to said housing; an actuator connected to a pivot mechanism to supply operational power for rotation; at least one connection plate for forming a connection between at least two of the robotic modules, wherein said connection plate includes a plurality of connector teeth having a profile suitable for locking an attaching robotic module into position; a gear mechanism connected to said actuator for transmitting rotational motion from said actuator; a control unit connected to said actuator to control rotation of the robotic module; an energy storage device adjacent to said actuator, for providing electrical energy utilized for operation of the robotic module; and at least one position sensor for sensing module arrangement. 2. The robotic module according to claim 1, wherein said actuator comprises a servo motor. 3. The robotic module according to claim 1, wherein said control unit comprises a central processing unit. 4. The robotic module according to claim 3, wherein said central processing unit is pre-programmed. 5. The robotic module according to claim 3, wherein said central processing unit is programmed externally. 6. The robotic module according to claim 1, wherein said energy storage device comprises at least one battery. 7. The robotic module according to claim 1, wherein at least one said connection plate forms a mechanical and electrical connection between two robotic modules. 8. The robotic module according to claim 1, wherein at least one said connection plate forms a mechanical connection between two robotic modules. 9. The robotic module according to claim 1, wherein said connection plate further comprises a connection plate center. 10. The robotic module according to claim 9, wherein said connection plate center contains an opening for permitting the exchange of signals among connected robotic modules. 11. The robotic module according to claim 9, further comprising electrical contacts for providing electrical connections between connected modules. 12. The robotic module according to claim 11, wherein said electrical contacts comprise concentric ring electrical contacts. 13. The robotic module according to claim 11, wherein said electrical contacts comprise pins. 14. The robotic module according to claim 11, wherein said electrical contacts comprise mating electrical contacts. 15. The robotic module according to claim 9, wherein said plurality of connector teeth comprises eight teeth. 16. The robotic module according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of sensing devices. 17. An assemblage of robotic modules for a toy construction system, the assemblage comprising a plurality of robotic modules connected together, each robotic module having a housing, an actuator connected to a pivot mechanism to supply operational power for rotation, at least one connection plate forming a connection between at least two of the robotic modules by means of connection teeth having a profile suitable for locking an attaching robotic module into position, a gear mechanism connected to said actuator for transmitting rotational motion from said actuator, a control unit connected to said actuator to control rotation of the robotic module, an energy storage device adjacent to said actuator, for providing electrical energy utilized for operation of the robotic module, and position sensors communicating with said control unit for sensing module arrangement. 18. The assemblage of robotic modules according to claim 17, wherein a connector arm connects to the connection plates of at least two said robotic modules, for connecting the modules together. 19. The assemblage of robotic modules according to claim 17, further comprising passive components attached to said robotic modules. 