Methods and apparatus for distressing a wooden plank give the plank an antique, aged appearance. The preferred method includes four independent steps. The plank is run through an inventive machine operative to impart a random saw blade distressing on the plank. This step is preferably carried out as a single stream in a machine having a plurality of saw arbors, each driven by its own rotating cam. To impart the most random pattern, each cam preferably has a different shape and rotates at a different speed. The plank is preferably fed into a roller having raised portions operative to produce random dents and impressions into the plank. This step is preferably carried out in multiple streams using a machine having a large roller or drum with protrusions affixed thereto. The plank is then fed into a profile sander having one or more wire wheels operative to apply a surface texture to the plank, then sanding and smoothing the plank with abrasive wheels. Finally, a surface finish is applied to the plank which simulates an antique wood floor. In the preferred embodiment, the edges and ends of the plank are beveled and stained darker than the rest of the plank. In addition, assuming the plank has areas of hard grain and areas of soft grain, the technique preferably includes the steps of darkening the soft grain while lightening the hard grain to yield an aged appearance.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of distressing a wooden plank so as to give it an antique aged appearance, comprising the steps of: running the plank through a machine operative to impart a random saw blade distressing on the plank; providing a roller having raised portions of random size, shape, and concentration; feeding the plank into a roller operative to produce random dents and impressions into the plank; feeding the plank into a profile sander having one or more wire wheels operative to apply the surface texture to the plank, then sanding and smoothing the plank with abrasive wheels; and applying a surface finish to the plank. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of running the plank through a machine operative to impart a random saw blade distressing is carried out on a per-plank basis. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of feeding the plank into a roller operative to produce dents and impressions is carried out on multiple planks simultaneously. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the plank has edges and ends; and the step of applying a surface finish to the plank includes beveling the edges and ends of the plank. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the plank has areas of relatively hard grain and areas of relatively soft grain; and the step of applying a surface finish to the plank includes the step of darkening the soft grain. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the plank has areas of hard grain and areas of soft grain; and the step of applying a surface finish to the plank includes lightening the hard grain. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine used to impart a random saw blade distressing on the plank includes a plurality of saw arbors, each driven by its own rotating cam. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein each cam has a different shape. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein each cam rotates at a different speed. 