The typical global positioning system (GPS) estimates the three-dimensional, global position of a radio receiver and associated vehicle, such as an aircraft, using the range measurements between the radio receiver and a set of earth-orbiting satellite transmitters. Estimating the position of the receiver from these range measurements generally entails using an iterative calculation process, which computes a series of position estimates, with each successive estimate converging with increasing accuracy toward the actual receiver position. This iterative approach, however, is not only time consuming, but sometimes fails to converge toward the actual receiver position. Though others have tried to solve these problems, their approaches either fail to consistently converge on a single solution or give multiple solutions. Accordingly, the inventors devised, among other things, new non-iterative methods, for using range measurements to estimate position. One exemplary position-estimation method entails receiving a set of two or more range measurements; defining an error function based on the set of range measurements, with the error function having only one local minimum; and then determining a position estimate based the one local minimum of the error function. This and other exemplary embodiments of the invention promise to reduce the time for computing position estimates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non-iterative method of estimating position based on range measurements, the method comprising: receiving a set of two or more range measurements; defining an error function based on the set of range measurements, with the error function having only one local minimum and a predetermined value for noiseless range measurements; and determining a position estimate based on the one local minimum of the error function. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining another position estimate based on the position estimate. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the range measurements are received by a receiver outside a transmitter system. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the range measurement are received by a receiver in a cellular telephone. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the range measurements are received by ranger robot in a distributed robotics system. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of range measurements includes one or more redundant range measurements. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined value is zero. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the error function is non-negative. 9. In a position-measurement system having at least one receiver and two or more transmitters, a method of computing a position estimate for the receiver from a set of two or more range measurements, the method comprising: defining a matrix based on the range measurements; defining a vector v as the kernel of the matrix, with the vector v having a last element; defining a P matrix based on the vector v; computing a rank-1 matrix P that minimizes a norm .parallel.P-P.parallel.; and computing the position estimate based on the rank-1 matrix P. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the set of range measurements includes one or more redundant range measurements. 11. A system comprising: means for receiving a set of two or more range measurements; means for defining an error function based on the set of range measurements, with the error function having only one local minimum; and means for determining a position estimate based on the one local minimum of the error function. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: means for determining another position estimate based on the position estimate. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the predetermined value is zero. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the error function is non-negative. 15. A position-measurement system comprising: means for defining a matrix based on a set of two or more range measurements; means for defining a vector v as the kernel of the matrix, with the vector v having a last element; means for defining a P matrix based on the vector v; means for computing a rank-1 matrix P that minimizes a norm .parallel.P-P.parallel.; and means for computing the position estimate based on the rank-1 matrix P. 16. A machine-readable medium comprising: code segments for defining an error function based on a set of range measurements, with the error function having only one local minimum and a predetermined value for noiseless range measurements; and code segments for determining a position estimate based the one local minimum of the error function. 17. The medium of claim 16, wherein the predetermined value is zero. 18. The medium of claim 16, wherein the error function is non-negative. 19. A machine-readable medium for use in a position-measurement system, the medium comprising: code segments for defining a matrix based on a set of range measurements; code segments for defining a vector v as the kernel of the matrix; code segments for defining a P matrix based on the vector v; code segments for initiating computation of a rank-1 matrix P that minimizes a norm .parallel.P-P.parallel.; and code segments for initiating computation of a position estimate based on the rank-1 matrix P. 20. A non-iterative method of estimating position based on range measurements, the method comprising: defining a set of m non-linear range equations based on the range measurements; defining a set of m-1 linear range equations based on the m non-linear range equations; and fully determining a position solution from the set of m-1 linear range equations. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein defining a set of m-1 linear range equations based on the m non-linear range equations comprises: selecting one of the set of m non-linear equations; and subtracting each of the other of the non-linear equations from the one selected equation. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising: computing another position solution based on the position solution. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the m non-linear equations include at least one equation based on redundant range measurements. 24. A system comprising: means for defining a set of m non-linear range equations based on the range measurements; means for defining a set of m-1 linear range equations based on the m non-linear range equations; and means for fully determining a position solution from the set of m-1 linear range equations. 25. A machine-readable medium comprising: code segments for defining a set of m non-linear range equations based on the range measurements; code segments for defining a set of m-1 linear range equations based on the m non-linear range equations; and code segments for fully determining a position solution from the set of m-1 linear range equations. 26. The machine-readable medium of claim 25, wherein the medium is an electronic, magnetic, or optical storage or communication medium. 27. A system comprising: a receiver for receiving signals from a set of transmitters and for outputting a set of range measurements based on the signals; and a closed-form position estimator responsive to the range measurements to output a position solution based on the range measurements, wherein the closed-form position estimator comprises: means for defining a set of m non-linear range equations based on the range measurements; means for defining a set of m-1 linear range equations based on the m non-linear range equations; and means for fully determining a position solution from the set of m-1 linear range equations. 28. The system of claim 27 further comprising: an iterative position estimator responsive to the position solution to output a different position solution based on the position solution. 29. A system comprising: a receiver for receiving signals from a set of transmitters and for outputting a set of range measurements based on the signals; and a closed-form position estimator responsive to the range measurements to output a position solution based on the range measurements, wherein the closed-form position estimator comprises: means for defining an error fuinction based on the set of range measurements, with the error function having only one local minimum and a predetermined value for noiseless range measurements; and means for determining a position estimate based on the one local minimum of the error function. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the predetermined value is zero. 31. The system of claim 29, wherein the error function is non-negative. 