A process and device for chromatography, such as preparative and analytical supercritical fluid chromatography, or supercritical fluid extraction for a liquid phase SFC collection system that separates and retains eluted components from sample injections. The process efficiently separates liquid and gas phases in the flow stream upstream of a collection vessel and without additional pressure schemes or solvent extractions imposed on the flowstream. Sample fractions are collected from sample component concentration peaks based upon the chromatographic elution of the sample components. Samples are repeatedly the injected into the mobile phase flow stream and collected into large volume collection containers, thereby allowing longer unattended run times and cost-efficient sample purification and recovery.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for collecting samples from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising: an injection valve injecting discrete samples into said flow stream; a separation device to elute solutes of said samples; a detector to detect concentrations of said solutes in said flow stream; a phase separation stage to control the pressure, temperature and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes comprising a series of heaters and transfer lines to separate a monophasic flow stream into liquid and gas phases; an expansion space in the flow stream that is sized to create a point of expansion of said flow stream and wherein the linear velocity of said flow stream is slowed; at least one collection device to retain said liquid phase. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein: said space in said flow line is provided by a large bore tubing having internal diameter adequate to slow the linear speed of said flow stream. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein: said space in said flow line is provided by directing said flow stream through a chamber having internal space adequate to slow the linear speed of said flow stream. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein: said collection device includes a discrete collection container to receive said liquid phase, wherein said container has an exit port for discharging waste products. 