A mobile robot includes an autonomous displacement device, a microphone, a loudspeaker, a mobile telephone module, and a voice analysis module able to interpret voice commands through the mobile telephone module to control the displacements of the mobile robot. The microphone is connected to the voice analysis module and thus also enables a human operator within earshot of the mobile robot to control the displacements of the mobile robot through voice commands.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot configured to verify an identity of an operator, wherein said identity is verified through a password given by the operator. 2. A mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot configured to verify an identity of an operator; and a users data bank indicating rights and privileges of operators of the mobile robot. 3. A mobile robot according to claim 2, wherein said data bank makes it possible to distinguish between the operators that have a right to displace the robot and those that can only establish a bi-directional communication with an environment of the mobile robot. 4. A method for the remote controlling of a mobile robot, comprising the following steps: establishing a connection with the mobile robot through a commuted telephone network; sending voice commands for displacing the robot through said connection; interpreting said voice commands in said mobile robot to control displacements of said mobile robot; and sending a command for switching to communication mode in order to establish a communication with an operator near said mobile robot. 5. A mobile telecommunications network comprising mobile nodes, wherein a position of at least certain nodes is controllable through voice commands transmitted from any node in the network and analyzed within said certain mobile nodes. 6. A mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot, wherein said microphone is connected to said voice analysis module, enabling a human operator within earshot of said mobile to control the displacements of said mobile robot through voice commands, and wherein a bidirectional voice telephone communication can be established between a human operator within earshot of said mobile robot and a user connected through a mobile telecommunications network. 7. A mobile robot configured to distinguish between commands for displacing the mobile robot and voice commands intended to be retransmitted to an operator, said mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot, wherein said microphone is connected to said voice analysis module, enabling a human operator within earshot of said mobile to control the displacements of said mobile robot through voice commands, and wherein a bi-directional voice telephone communication can be established between a human operator within earshot of said mobile robot and a user connected through a mobile telecommunications network. 8. A mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot, and one or several sensors enabling said mobile robot to perceive an environment of said mobile robot, wherein at least one of said sensors is constituted by a camera. 9. A mobile robot configured to verify an identity of an operator, said mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot, wherein said identity is verified through an electronic signature of the operator. 10. A mobile robot configured to verify an identity of an operator, said mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot, wherein said identity is verified through biometrics characteristics of the operator. 11. A mobile robot configured to verify an identity of an operator, said mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot, wherein said identity is verified through biometrics characteristics of the operator, and said biometrics characteristics comprise characteristics taken from the a voice of the operator. 12. A mobile robot configured to verify an identity of an operator, said mobile robot comprising: means for autonomous displacement; a microphone; a loudspeaker; a mobile telecommunication module; and a voice analysis module configured to interpret voice commands received through said mobile telecommunication module in order to control displacements of said mobile robot, wherein said identity is verified through biometrics characteristics of the operator, and said biometrics characteristics comprise characteristics taken from a voice of the operator and visual characteristics of the operator. 