A Microelectronic Bonding processes wherein a microelectronic element is connected with a connection component having a polymeric body, and a bonding material is provided between contacts on the microelectronic element and conductive features of the connection component. The microelectronic element is heated so as to activate the bonding material, and then cooled, leaving said contacts on said microelectronic element bonded to said conductive features on the connection component. The connection component is maintained at an average temperature below the glass transition temperature of the polymer in the connection component during the heating and cooling steps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of bonding a microelectronic element to a connection component having a body which includes a polymer comprising: (a) juxtaposing said microelectronic element and said connection component with masses of bonding material disposed between electrically conductive features disposed on said connection component body and contacts on said microelectronic element; (b) heating said microelectronic element so as to activate said bonding material, and then cooling said microelectronic element leaving said contacts on said microelectronic element bonded to said conductive features on said connection component; and (c) maintaining said connection component at an average temperature below the glass transition temperature of the polymer in the connection component during said heating and cooling. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising maintaining said microelectronic element and said connection component under a vacuum during said heating and cooling. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising maintaining said connection component in heat transfer relationship with a temperature stabilizing element during said heating and cooling steps and maintaining said temperature stabilizing element at a temperature below said glass transition temperature. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said heating of said microelectronic element includes applying radiant energy to said microelectronic element. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4 wherein said microelectronic element has a front face with said contacts thereon and has a rear face, said juxtaposing being performed so that said front face of said microelectronic element faces toward said connection component and said rear face faces away from said connection component, and wherein said radiant energy is applied by directing the radiant energy onto said rear face. 6. The method as claimed in claim 4 wherein said microelectronic element has a front face with said contacts thereon and has a rear face, said juxtaposing being performed so that said front face of said microelectronic element faces toward said connection component and said rear face faces away from said connection component, and wherein said radiant energy is applied by directing the radiant energy through the connection component onto said front face. 7. The method as claimed in 1 or claim 2 wherein said connection component includes a polymeric sheet, the method further comprising maintaining said polymeric sheet taut during said juxtaposing, heating and cooling. 8. The method as claimed in claim 7 further comprising maintaining said polymeric sheet taut by a rigid frame defining an opening, said polymeric sheet extending across said opening. 9. The method as claimed in 1 wherein microelectronic element has a passivation layer which is not wettable by said bonding material surrounding said contacts, further comprising providing said bonding material by contacting the passivation layer and contacts with said bonding material in a liquid state, whereby said bonding material adheres only to the contacts. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said bonding material is a solder, further comprising maintaining said microelectronic element and said connection component under a vacuum during said heating and cooling. 11. The method as claimed in 1 wherein said connection component includes a polymeric element having a top surface and having said conductive features supported above said top surface by connecting elements, said connecting elements having cross-sectional areas smaller than the areas of said conductive features. 12. The method as claimed in 1 or claim 2 or claim 9 or claim 10 wherein said conductive features include the tip ends of leads on said connection component, the tip ends of being releasably connected to the connection component body, the leads having terminal ends fixed to said connection component body, the method further comprising moving the microelectronic element and the connection component body away from one another after bonding the contacts of the microelectronic element to the tip ends of the leads so as to bend the leads towards a vertically-extensive disposition. 13. The method as claimed in 1 or claim 2 wherein said microelectronic element has leads thereon and said leads have tip ends releasably mounted to said microelectronic element and fixed ends permanently secured to said microelectronic element, said contacts being provided at said tip ends of said leads, the method further comprising moving the microelectronic element and the connection component body away from one another after bonding the contacts of the microelectronic element to the conductive features on the connection component so as to bend the leads towards a vertically-extensive disposition. 