Method and apparatus for cleaning semiconductor devices and other workpieces using an aqueous rinse solution which is de-oxygenated by passing the aqueous rinse solution and a carrier gas through an osmotic membrane degasifier. A cleaning chamber is also disclosed for carrying out the cleaning method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for treating a workpiece with an aqueous solution, comprising: providing a carrier fluid comprising at least one component; passing said aqueous solution and said carrier fluid through an osmotic membrane degasifier having a membrane, so as to draw oxygen from said carrier fluid and to introduce at least one component of said carrier fluid into said aqueous solution so as to control the pH of said aqueous solution; providing a treatment chamber; at least partly filling said treatment chamber with said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier; and at least partly immersing said workpiece in said aqueous solution. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said carrier fluid includes carbon dioxide. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: providing a treatment chamber defining a cavity for receiving the workpiece; inserting the workpiece into the cavity; and filing the cavity with said aqueous solution so as to immerse said workpiece in said aqueous solution. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the steps of: providing a plenum defining a mixing chamber coupled to said treatment chamber; and the step of filling the cavity with said aqueous solution comprises the step of passing aqueous solution through said mixing chamber prior to entering said cavity. 5. The method according to claim 3 further comprising the step of sealing said cavity with a light-tight cover. 6. The method according to claim 3 further comprising the step of enclosing the cavity with a heated cover. 7. The method according to claim 3 further comprising the step of enclosing the cavity with a cover and introducing a gas blanket in said cavity. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein said gas blanket is at least partly comprised of carbon dioxide. 9. The method according to claim 3 further comprising the step of providing a cover to enclose said cavity and injecting a rinse agent from said cavity into said treatment chamber. 10. The method according to claim 3 further comprising the steps of providing a cover to enclose said cavity, emptying said cavity, and directing a drying gas from said cover into said treatment chamber. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of agitating the aqueous solution to enhance the treatment of workpieces therein. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein said agitating step comprises exciting said aqueous solution with an ultrasonic frequency. 13. The method according to claim 11 wherein said agitating step comprises exciting said aqueous solution with sonic energy in the megahertz frequency range. 14. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of providing an overflow weir in said treatment chamber and filling said treatment chamber with said aqueous solution so as to overflow a portion of said aqueous solution through said weir. 15. The method according to claim 14 further comprising the steps of providing a storage tank and coupling the flow from said weir to said storage tank. 16. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of monitoring the oxygen content of said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier. 17. The method according to claim 16 further comprising the step of controlling the flow of carrier fluid through said osmotic membrane degasifier in response to the oxygen level sensed in said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier. 18. The method according to claim 16 wherein the step of providing a carrier fluid comprises the step of providing a plurality of carrier fluid components and mixing said carrier fluid components together to form said carrier fluid. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the step of controlling the flow of carrier fluid entering said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises the step of individually controlling the carrier fluid components which are mixed together to form said carrier fluid. 20. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of contacting the workpiece with said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises immersing the workpiece in said aqueous solution. 21. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of contacting the workpiece with said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises spraying the workpiece with said aqueous solution. 22. The method according to claim 1 wherein said step of contacting the workpiece with said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises passing said aqueous solution over the workpiece. 23. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of introducing acid into said treatment chamber so as to alter the pH of said aqueous solution. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said step of introducing acid comprises the step of dripping acid into said treatment chamber. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of providing a cover connected to said treatment chamber and providing acid drip apparatus connected to said cover for performing the step of dripping acid into said treatment chamber. 26. A method for cleaning opposed major surfaces of a semiconductor device, comprising: providing a cleaning chamber defining a cavity or receiving the semiconductor device; inserting the semiconductor device into the cavity; filling the cavity with a first solvent so as to immerse said semiconductor device in said first solvent while exciting said chamber with ultrasonic energy so as to transmit said ultrasonic energy through said first solvent to said semiconductor device; emptying said cavity of said first solvent; filling the cavity with a second solvent so as to immerse said semiconductor device in said second solvent while exciting said chamber with ultrasonic energy so as to transmit said ultrasonic energy through said second solvent to said semiconductor device; emptying said cavity of said second solvent; providing an aqueous solution; providing a carrier fluid containing carbon dioxide passing said aqueous solution and said carrier fluid through an osmotic membrane degasifier having a membrane, so as to draw oxygen from said aqueous solution through said membrane to said carrier fluid and so as to introduce carbon dioxide gas through said membrane, into said aqueous solution so as to control the pH of said aqueous solution filling the cavity with a aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier so as to immerse said semiconductor device in said aqueous solution while exciting said chamber with ultrasonic energy so as to transmit said ultrasonic energy through said aqueous solution to said semiconductor device; emptying said cavity of said aqueous solution: drying the major surfaces of conductor device; and removing said semiconductor device from said cavity. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said step of drying the said semiconductor device comprises the step of passing heated fluid over the surfaces of said semiconductor device. 28. The method of claim 26 wherein said step of drying said semiconductor device further comprises the step of spraying a rinse agent on the major surfaces of said semiconductor device. 29. The method according to claim 26 further comprising the steps of: providing a process cover with heater means for heating the process cover; providing a drying cover with means for directing a stream of drying gas; providing said cleaning chamber with a device opening through which said semiconductor device is passed into and out of said cavity; covering said device opening with said process cover during rinsing of said semiconductor device; and withdrawing said process cover from said device opening and covering said device opening with said drying cover during cleaning of said semiconductor device. 30. The method of claim 26 further comprising the steps of: providing a plenum defining a mixing chamber coupled to said treatment chamber; and the step of filling the cavity with said aqueous solution comprises the step of passing aqueous solution through said mixing chamber prior to entering said cavity. 31. The method according to claim 26 further comprising the step of sealing said cavity with a light-tight seal. 32. The method according to claim 26 further comprising the step of enclosing the cavity with a heated lid. 33. The method according to claim 30 further comprising the step of withdrawing at least a portion of said first solvent from said cavity and passing said withdrawn portion of said first solvent through said mixing chamber for reintroduction into said cavity. 34. The method according to claim 30 further comprising the step of withdrawing at least a portion of said second solvent from said cavity and passing said withdrawn portion of said second solvent through said mixing chamber for reintroduction into said cavity. 35. The method according to claim 30 further comprising the step of withdrawing at least a portion of said aqueous solution from said cavity and passing said withdrawn portion of said aqueous solution through said mixing chamber for reintroduction into said cavity. 36. The method according to claim 26 further comprising the step of providing an overflow weir in said treatment chamber and filling said treatment chamber with said aqueous solution so as to overflow a portion of said aqueous solution through said weir. 37. The method according to claim 36 further comprising the steps of providing a storage tank and coupling the flow from said weir to said storage tank. 38. The method according to claim 26 further comprising the step of monitoring the oxygen content of said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier. 39. The method according to claim 38 further comprising the step of controlling the flow of carrier fluid through said osmotic membrane degasifier in response to the oxygen level sensed in said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier. 40. The method according to claim 39 wherein the step of providing a carrier fluid comprises the step of providing a plurality of carrier fluid components and mixing said carrier fluid components together to form said carrier fluid. 41. The method according to claim 40 wherein the step of controlling the flow of carrier fluid entering said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises the step of individually controlling the carrier fluid components which are mixed together to form said carrier fluid. 42. The method according to claim 26 wherein said step of contacting the workpiece with said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises immersing the workpiece in said aqueous solution. 43. The method according to claim 26 wherein said step of contacting the workpiece with said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises spraying the workpiece with said aqueous solution. 44. The method according to claim 26 wherein said step of contacting the workpiece with said aqueous solution from said osmotic membrane degasifier comprises passing said aqueous solution over the workpiece. 45. The method of claim 26 further comprising the step of introducing acid into said treatment chamber so as to alter the pH of said aqueous solution. 46. The method of claim 45 wherein said step of introducing acid comprises the step of dripping acid into said treatment chamber. 47. The method of claim 46 further comprising the step of providing a cover connected to said treatment chamber and providing acid drip apparatus connected to said cover for performing the step of dripping acid into said treatment chamber. 