A data storage system for remote access to stored data. The innovative system uses a storage library to contain magnetic hard disks and automatically replaces the hard disks upon failure, without human intervention. Failed disks are removed from the library by a robot, deposited from the library, upon which time they are further processed for delivery to the manufacturer, or for disposal. Replacement disk drives are accessed by the robot from within the library to replace the removed storage element. The system's robot is not only moving individual storage elements, but also of moving the access cables connecting the storage elements to the external network. Using this capability, the number of access cables is reduced without requiring added human intervention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage system, comprising: a storage library having storage slots capable of receiving storage elements, the library also having an access port; an access device for inserting storage elements into the storage slots and extracting storage elements from the storage slots; wherein under predetermined circumstances, the access device automatically extracts a storage element from a storage slot and removes the storage element from the library by sending the storage element through the access port. 2. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein the storage library is connected to a network. 3. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein the storage elements are selected from the group consisting of magnetic disk drives, tape drives, floppy disks, and compact disks. 4. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined circumstances include failure of a storage element. 5. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein the storage elements include rf chips indicating, to a reader, what data is contained on the storage element. 6. The data storage system of claim 1, wherein when a storage element is removed from the library, the access device automatically retrieves a spare storage element from a storage facility and inserts the spare storage element into a storage slot of the library; and wherein the access device performs all necessary connections required for the spare storage element to communicate with the storage library. 7. An automated storage system, comprising: a plurality of storage elements positioned in storage slots of the storage system, at least some of the storage slots being connected to a network by access cables and some storage slots not being so connected; a robot for disconnecting the access cables from a first storage slot and reconnecting the access cables to a second storage slot; wherein under predetermined circumstances, the robot disconnects the access cable from the first storage slot and attaches the access cable to the second storage slot. 8. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the predetermined circumstances include failure of a mechanism associated with the storage slot. 9. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the predetermined circumstances include when the robot receives specific instructions from a remote user. 10. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the predetermined circumstances include automated processes initiated by installation policy metadata stored in the subsystem. 11. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the predetermined circumstances include a change in the state of a virtual volume such as the system changing the redundancy requirements for data protection. 12. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the storage element stored in the first storage slot is removed from the storage system by the robot without human intervention. 13. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the storage elements include radio frequency chips for indicating the contents of the storage elements to a reader. 14. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the predetermined circumstances include instructions to connect via cable at least one subsequent storage slot associated with the second storage slot. 15. The storage system of claim 14, wherein the said at least one subsequent storage slot associated with the second storage slot is connected in a loop extending the connection from the network to the second storage slot. 16. The storage system of claim 14, wherein the said at least one subsequent storage slot associated with the second storage slot is connected in a switch relationship to the connection from the network to the second storage slot. 17. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the access cables provide power for storage slots. 18. The storage system of claim 7, wherein the robot is for connecting and disconnecting, moving, and reconnecting power cables to storage slots in the storage system. 19. A data storage system, comprising: a storage library having a plurality of storage slots for receiving storage elements; an access cable which, when connected to a storage slot of the plurality of storage slots, provides data transfer access to a storage element of the storage slot to which the access cable is connected; an access device for disconnecting the access cable from storage slots of the storage system and connecting the access cable to storage slots of the storage system. 20. The storage system of claim 19, wherein the storage library is connected to a network. 21. The storage system of claim 19, wherein the storage elements are selected from the group consisting of magnetic disk drives, tape drives, floppy disks, and compact disks. 22. The storage system of claim 19, wherein the access device is also for removing individual storage elements from the library. 23. The storage system of claim 19, wherein when an access cable is moved, the storage system automatically maps the new location of the cable. 24. A method of data storage, comprising: (a) storing data of a first storage element of a first storage slot of a library in such a redundancy manner that the first storage element can be read from a second storage element within a second storage slot of the library, the library having an access device for manipulating storage elements; (b) when the data of the first storage element becomes inaccessible, removing the first storage element from the first storage slot; (c) moving a third storage element to the first storage slot; (d) copying the data from the second storage element to the third storage element; wherein the steps (b), (c), and (d) are accomplished using control software and require no direct human intervention. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the storage elements are selected from the group consisting of magnetic disk drives, tape drives, floppy disks, and compact disks. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of removing the first storage element from the library. 27. A method of data management in a storage library system, comprising the steps of: when a first storage element in a first slot in the storage library system fails, removing the first storage element from the first slot in the library; operably connecting access and power apparatus such that a second storage element can communicate with the library system; wherein the steps of removing and connecting are accomplished by a control system of the storage library system without human intervention. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising the step of transferring data from a third storage element to the second storage element, wherein the third storage element contains data previously contained on the first storage element. 29. The method of claim 27, further comprising the step of mapping the location of the second storage element to replace the first storage element. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein the second storage element is stored in a spare storage location within the library and accessible to a robotic access device which can move the spare storage element within the library. 