A processor for processing articles, such as semiconductor wafers, includes an enclosure defining a substantially enclosed clean processing chamber and at least one processing station disposed in the processing chamber. An interface section is disposed adjacent an interface end of the enclosure. The interface section includes at least one interface port through which a pod containing articles for processing are loaded or unloaded to or from the processor. An article extraction mechanism adapted to seal with the pod removes articles from the pod without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions in the interface section. The article processor also preferably includes an article insertion mechanism adapted to seal with a pod in the interface section. The article insertion mechanism allows insertion of the articles into the pod after processing by at least one processing station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing articles, comprising the steps of: loading a closed container containing articles through a loading port adjacent a front end of a processing system; moving the closed container through an interface section of the processing system, toward a docking station at a back end of the processing system; docking the closed container against a wall at the docking station, with the articles in a horizontal orientation; removing a door from the container, to open the container; extending an article transfer horizontally into the container; engaging one or more articles within the container; withdrawing the articles from the container; pivoting the articles into a near-vertical orientation; moving the articles on a robotic conveyor to a processing station; loading the articles into the processing station; and processing the articles within the processing station. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of moving the container vertically from the loading port into the interface section. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the robotic conveyor moves in a direction perpendicular to movement of the container through the interface section. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of temporarily storing a plurality of closed containers in the interface section. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of engaging the door of the container with a hatch interface, separating the door from the container, and lowering the door vertically away from the container. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of turning the container within the interface section, to reorient the door of the container. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of removing the article from the processing station and placing the processed article into a second container docked at the docking station. 8. The method of claim 1 further including the step of engaging the articles by securing the articles between first and second sets of teeth on first and second combs, respectively, by moving the first comb relative to a second comb. 9. A method for processing a batch of semiconductor wafers in an enclosed working space of a processing system, comprising the steps of: (a) providing the wafers to the processing system with the wafers within a closed container, and with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; (b) docking the closed container at a wall of the processing system; (c) opening the container by removing a door of the container, causing the interior of the container to be in fluid communication with the working space of the processing system, (d) moving a wafer comb into the container; (e) lifting the wafer comb vertically up to lift each wafer in the batch of wafers up off of wafer supports in the container; (f) withdrawing the wafer comb and batch of wafers from the container; (g) pivoting the wafers from the horizontal orientation into a vertical orientation; (h) moving the wafers linearly to a process chamber; (i) placing the wafers into the process chamber, with the wafers in a generally vertical orientation in the process chamber; (j) closing the process chamber; (k) spinning the wafers within a rotor in the process chamber; and (l) spraying the spinning wafers with a process liquid. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of engaging the door of the closed container with a hatch cover, separating the door from the container, and lowering the door and hatch cover vertically away from the container. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of engaging the container door with one or more keys extending out of the hatch cover and rotating the key to unlock the container door from the container. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the wafer comb has a plurality of parallel comb elements for engaging and lifting a batch of horizontally oriented wafers. 13. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of sensing a presence of a wafer in the wafer comb. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the comb is supported on and moved by a carriage assembly having a rotary drive mechanism and a vertical drive mechanism. 15. A method for batch processing semiconductor wafers in a processing system, with the wafers provided to the processing system within a closed container, and with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; comprising the steps of: (a) engaging the door of the container with a hatch cover; (b) separating the door from the container, and lowering the door along with the hatch cover vertically away from the container; (c) moving a wafer transfer subassembly into the container; (d) picking up wafers in the container, with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; (e) moving the wafer transfer subassembly carrying a batch of wafers out of the container; (f) rotating the wafers from the horizontal orientation into a vertical orientation; (g) moving the wafers into a process chamber, with the wafers in a generally vertical orientation in the process chamber; (h) spinning the wafers in the process chamber; and (i) spraying the spinning wafers with a process liquid. 