The identification of hidden data, such as feature-based control points in an image, from a set of observable data, such as the image, is achieved through a two-stage approach. The first stage involves a learning process, in which a number of sample data sets, e.g. images, are analyzed to identify the correspondence between observable data, such as visual aspects of the image, and the desired hidden data, such as the control points. Two models are created. A feature appearance-only model is created from aligned examples of the feature in the observed data. In addition, each labeled data set is processed to generate a coupled model of the aligned observed data and the associated hidden data. In the second stage of the process, the modeled feature is located in an unmarked, unaligned data set, using the feature appearance-only model. This location is used as an alignment point and the coupled model is then applied to the aligned data, giving an estimate of the hidden data values for that data set.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer program product for determining continuous-valued hidden data from observable data, the computer program product being embodied in a computer readable medium and comprising computer instructions for: A) conducting a training stage comprising the steps of: labeling a plurality of representative sets of unaligned observed data to identify correct alignment of the observed data and continuous-valued hidden data associated with each set of observed data; analyzing the observed data to generate a first model which represents the aligned observed data; generating a second model on the aligned and labeled data sets which explicitly represents the coupling between aligned observable data and the hidden data; B) for each set of unlabeled data, conducting a labeling stage comprising the steps of: analyzing the unlabeled set of unaligned observed data by means of the first model to determine alignment of the observable data associated therewith; applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data; and determining hidden data for the unlabeled set of aligned data from said application of the second model. 2. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein said second model is generated by means of canonical correlation. 3. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein each set of unaligned observed data defines an image. 4. The computer program product of claim 3 wherein said hidden data comprises control points that relate to fiduciary points on objects in an image. 5. The computer program product of claim 4 wherein at least some of said control points relate to fiduciary points on obscured portions of objects in the images. 6. The computer program product of claim 4 wherein control points are determined for at least two new images, and further comprising computer instructions for morphing between said new images in accordance with the determined control points. 7. The computer program product of claim 4 further comprising computer instructions for creating a composite image by incorporating a new image into another image by means of the determined control points for each of the two images. 8. The computer program product of claim 4 wherein said images include faces, and further comprising computer instructions for analyzing the control points to recognize a known face in an image. 9. The computer program product of claim 4 wherein said images comprise cartoons. 10. The computer program product of claim 4 wherein said images include faces, and further comprising computer instructions for analyzing the control points to recognize an expression on a face in an image. 11. The computer program product of claim 4, further comprising computer instructions for controlling a robot to grasp an object in accordance with the fiduciary points that are labeled in the image of the object. 12. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein said sets of unaligned observed data comprise a sequence of video images. 13. The computer program product of claim 12 further comprising computer instructions for analyzing determined control points in said sequence of video images to recognize movement of an object in the images. 14. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein said movement comprises nearly periodic motion. 15. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein said sets of unaligned observed data comprise audio signals. 16. The computer program product of claim 1 further comprising computer instructions for selecting a plurality of said representative sets of data, using hidden data in said plurality of data sets to automatically generate interpolated data sets that are based on said plurality of data sets and that include both observable and hidden data, and including said interpolated data sets in the plurality of representative data sets that are analyzed to generate said second model. 17. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein said second model is a multifaceted model, and said interpolated data sets are at the boundaries of facets in said second model. 18. The computer program product of claim 1 further comprising computer instructions for selecting a plurality of said representative sets of data, using hidden data in said plurality of data sets to automatically generate interpolated data sets that are based on said plurality of data sets and that contain observable data, and including said interpolated data sets in the plurality of representative data sets that area analyzed to generate said first model. 19. The computer program product of 18 wherein said first model is a multifaceted model, and said interpolated data sets are at the boundaries of facets in said first model. 20. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein said applying and determining steps are carried out in a non-iterative manner. 21. The computer program product of claim 1 wherein said first model is a manifold model. 22. The computer program product of claim 21 wherein said first model is an affine manifold model. 23. The computer program product of claim 22 wherein the computer instructions for aligning the observed data in an unlabeled data set comprise computer instructions for: i) selecting possible locations for the alignment of the data; ii) for each possible location, determining a lower bound for the distance between the unlabeled data set aligned at that location and an expected appearance of aligned data, in accordance with an average appearance defined by the first model; iii) removing the possible locations whose lower bound exceeds a threshold value; iv) for each possible location, determining the coordinate value for a dimension of the first model; v) for each possible location, determining a new lower bound by combining previously determined coordinate values with the distance between the data set aligned at that location and the appearance of the data set under said alignment in accordance with the previously determined coordinate values; and vi) repeating steps iii), iv) and v) for all of the dimensions of the model. 24. The computer program product of claim 23 wherein said lower bounds are determined in accordance with expected variances along each of the dimensions of the manifold model. 25. The computer program product of claim 24 wherein said expected variances are progressively smaller on each successive repetition of said steps. 26. The computer program product of claim 22 wherein the computer instructions for applying the second model to the unlabeled set of aligned observed data comprise computer instructions for: projecting, with the use of an orthonormal transform, the aligned observed unlabeled data onto a subspace of the second model having fewer dimensions than said second model; performing a general matrix multiplication within said subspace; and projecting, with the use of an orthonormal transform, into a second space of the model to determine hidden data for the unlabeled data set. 27. The computer program product of claim 26 wherein said general matrix multiplication is determined, in part, according to a gradual roll-off in manifold dimensions according to the coherence between the hidden and aligned observed data that is used to generate said second model. 28. The computer program product of claim 1 further comprising computer instructions for defining the alignment of the observed data in the representative sets of data from an analysis of the hidden data with which the data sets are labeled. 29. The computer program product of claim 28 wherein an analysis of the observed data is also employed in said alignment process. 30. The computer program product of claim 28 wherein said computer instructions for defining comprise computer instructions for dividing the hidden data into separate groups, and assigning a different definition of aligned observed data in each representative data set to the respective groups. 31. The computer program product of claim 30 wherein the division of the hidden data into separate groups is determined in accordance with analysis of the hidden data. 32. The computer program product of claim 30 wherein the definition of aligned observed data is determined in accordance with analysis of the hidden data. 33. The computer program product of claim 32 wherein the definition of aligned observed data is also determined in accordance with analysis of the observed data. 34. The computer program product of claim 31 wherein the observed data is also used to divide the hidden data into said groups. 35. The computer program product of claim 32 wherein the division of hidden data into groups is carried out by measuring the coherence of the hidden data. 36. A system for determining continuous-valued hidden data from observable data, comprsing: memory configured to store sets of observed data; and a processor configured to: A) conduct a training stage comprising the steps of: labeling a plurality of representative sets of unaligned observed data to identify correct alignment of the observed data and continuous-valued hidden data associated with each set of observed data; analyzing the observed data to generate a first model which represents the aligned observed data; generating a second model on the aligned and labeled data sets which explicitly represents the coupling between aligned observable data and the hidden data; and B) for each set of unlabeled data, conduct a labeling stage comprising the steps of: analyzing the unlabeled set of unaligned observed data by means of the first model to determine alignment of the observable data associated therewith; applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data; and determining hidden data for the unlabeled set of aligned data from said application of the second model. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein said second model is generated by means of canonical correlation. 38. The system of claim 36 wherein each set of unaligned observed data defines an image. 39. The system of claim 38 wherein said hidden data comprises control points that relate to fiduciary points on objects in an image. 40. The system of claim 39 wherein at least some of said control points relate to fiduciary points on obscured portions ofobijects in the images. 41. The system of claim 39 wherein control points are determined for at least two new images, and wherein the processor is further configured to morph between said new images in accordance with the determined control points. 42. The system of claim 39 wherein the processor is further configured to create a composite image by incorporating a new image into another image by means of the determined control points for each of the two images. 43. The system of claim 39 wherein said images include faces, and wherein the processor is further configured to analyze the control points to recognize a known face in an image. 44. The system of claim 39 wherein said images comprise cartoons. 45. The system of claim 39 wherein said images include faces, and wherein said processor is further configured to analyze the control points to recognize an expression on a face in an image. 46. The system of claim 39, wherein the processor is further configured to control a robot to grasp an object in accordance with the fiduciary points that are labeled in the image of the object. 47. The system of claim 36 wherein said sets of unaligned observed data comprise a sequence of video images. 48. The system of claim 47 wherein the processor is further configured to analyze determined control points in said sequence of video images to recognize movement of an object in the images. 49. The system of claim 48 wherein said movement comprises nearly periodic motion. 50. The system of claim 36 wherein said sets of unaligned observed data comprise audio signals. 51. The system of claim 36 wherein the processor is further configured to select a plurality of said representative sets of data, use hidden data in said plurality of data sets to automatically generate interpolated data sets that are based on said plurality of data sets and that include both observable and hidden data, and include said interpolated data sets in the plurality of representative data sets that are analyzed to generate said second model. 52. The system of claim 51 wherein said second model is a multifaceted model, and said interpolated data sets are at the boundaries of facets in said second model. 53. The system of claim 36 wherein the processor is further configured to select a plurality of said representative sets of data, use hidden data in said plurality of data sets to automatically generate interpolated data sets that are based on said plurality of data sets and that contain observable data, and include said interpolated data sets in the plurality of representative data sets that area analyzed to generate said first model. 54. The system of claim 53 wherein said first model is a multifaceted model, and said interpolated data sets are at the boundaries of facets in said first model. 55. The system of claim 36 wherein said applying and determining steps are carried out in a non-iterative manner. 56. The system of claim 36 wherein said first model is a manifold model. 57. The system of claim 36 wherein said first model is an affine manifold model. 58. The system of claim 37 wherein aligning the observed data in an unlabeled data set comprises: i) selecting possible locations for the alignment of the data; ii) for each possible location, determining a lower bound for the distance between the unlabeled data set aligned at that location and an expected appearance of aligned data, in accordance with an average appearance defined by the first model; iii) removing the possible locations whose lower bound exceeds a threshold value; iv) for each possible location, determining the coordinate value for a dimension of the first model; v) for each possible location, determining a new lower bound by combining previously determined coordinate values with the distance between the data set aligned at that location and the appearance of the data set under said alignment in accordance with the previously determined coordinate values; and vi) repeating steps iii), iv) and v) for all of the dimensions of the model. 59. The system of claim 58 wherein said lower bounds are determined in accordance with expected variances along each of the dimensions of the manifold model. 60. The system of claim 59 wherein said expected variances are progressively smaller on each successive repetition of said steps. 61. The system of claim 59 wherein applying the second model to the unlabeled set of aligned observed data comprises: projecting, with the use of an orthonormal transform, the aligned observed unlabeled data onto a subspace of the second model having fewer dimensions than said second model; performing a general matrix multiplication within said subspace; and projecting, with the use of an orthonormal transform, into a second space of the model to determine hidden data for the unlabeled data set. 62. The system of claim 61 wherein said general matrix multiplication is determined, in part, according to a gradual roll-off in manifold dimensions according to the coherence between the hidden and aligned observed data that is used to generate said second model. 63. The system of claim 36 wherein the processor is further configured to define the alignment of the observed data in the representative sets of data from an analysis of the hidden data with which the data sets are labeled. 64. The system of claim 63 wherein an analysis of the observed data is also employed in said alignment process. 65. The system of claim 63 wherein the processor is configured to define the alignment of the observed data in the representative sets of data by a process comprising dividing the hidden data into separate groups, and assigning a different definition of aligned observed data in each representative data set to the respective groups. 66. The system of claim 65 wherein the division of the hidden data into separate groups is determined in accordance with analysis of the hidden data. 67. The system of claim 65 wherein the definition of aligned observed data is determined in accordance with analysis of the hidden data. 68. The system of claim 67 wherein the definition of aligned observed data is also determined in accordance with analysis of the observed data. 69. The system of claim 66 wherein the observed data is also used to divide the hidden data into said groups. 70. The system of claim 67 wherein the division of hidden data into groups is carried out by measuring the coherence of the hidden data. 71. A method for determining continuous-valued hidden data from observable data, comprising: A) conducting a training stage comprising the steps of: labeling a plurality of representative sets of unaligned observed data to identify correct alignment of the observed data and continuous-valued hidden data associated with each set of observed data; analyzing the observed data to generate a first model which represents the aligned observed data; generating a second model on the aligned and labeled data sets which explicitly represents the coupling between aligned observable data and the hidden data, said step of generating comprising forming a Weiner prediction matrix; B) for each set of unlabeled data, conducting a labeling stage comprising the steps of: analyzing the unlabeled set of unaligned observed data by means of the first model to determine alignment of the observable data associated therewith; applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data; and determining hidden data for the unlabeled set of aligned data from said application of the second model. 72. The method of claim 71, wherein applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data comprises applying the Weiner prediction matrix. 73. The method of claim 72, further comprising expressing the Weiner prediction matrix in terms of canonical-correlation matrices. 74. A computer program product for determining continuous-valued hidden data from observable data, the computer program product being embodied in a computer readable medium and comprising computer instructions for: A) conducting a training stage comprising the steps of: labeling a plurality of representative sets of unaligned observed data to identify correct alignment of the observed data and continuous-valued hidden data associated with each set of observed data; analyzing the observed data to generate a first model which represents the aligned observed data; generating a second model on the aligned and labeled data sets which explicitly represents the coupling between aligned observable data and the hidden data, said step of generating comprising forming a Weiner prediction matrix; B) for each set of unlabeled data, conducting a labeling stage comprising the steps of: analyzing the unlabeled set of unaligned observed data by means of the first model to determine alignment of the observable data associated therewith; applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data; and determining hidden data for the unlabeled set of aligned data from said application of the second model. 75. The computer program product of claim 74, wherein applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data comprises applying the Weiner prediction matrix. 76. The computer program product of claim 74, further comprising computer instructions for expressing the Weiner prediction matrix in terms of canonical-correlation matrices. 77. A system for determining continuous-valued hidden data from observable data, comprising: memory configured to store sets of observed data; and a processor configured to: A) conducting a training stage comprising the steps of: labeling a plurality of representative sets of unaligned observed data to identify correct alignment of the observed data and continuous-valued hidden data associated with each set of observed data; analyzing the observed data to generate a first model which represents the aligned observed data; generating a second model on the aligned and labeled data sets which explicitly represents the coupling between aligned observable data and the hidden data, said step of generating comprising forming a Weiner prediction matrix; B) for each set of unlabeled data, conducting a labeling stage comprising the steps of: analyzing the unlabeled set of unaligned observed data by means of the first model to determine alignment of the observable data associated therewith; applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data; and determining hidden data for the unlabeled set of aligned data from said application of the second model. 78. The system of claim 77, wherein applying the second model to said unlabeled set of aligned observed data comprises applying the Weiner prediction matrix. 79. The system of claim 77, further comprising expressing the Weiner prediction matrix in terms of canonical-correlation matrices. 