A gripper apparatus for grasping an object such as a specimen holder. The gripper apparatus comprises two arms. In one embodiment the arms are pivotable, and in a second embodiment, each arm includes a pivotable member. The arms are moveably coupled to each other and are structured to grasp the object therebetween.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A grasping mechanism, comprising moveably coupled aims that are structured to grasp an object, wherein at least one arm comprises a pivot member having a support surface to support the object and a height adjusting surface that pushes the object into contact with the support surface when the arms grasp the object. 2. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the grasping mechanism comprises two moveably coupled arms. 3. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein each arm comprises the pivot member. 4. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the arms extend from a body of the grasping mechanism. 5. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the support surface and the height adjusting surface form a channel to grasp the object. 6. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the support surface comprises a substantially horizontal surface. 7. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the height adjusting surface comprises an angled surface. 8. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, further comprising the object. 9. The grasping mechanism of claim 8, wherein the object is selected from the group consisting of: a plate, a sample plate, a sample holder, a petri dish, a test tube, a vial, a crucible, a reaction vessel, a reaction flask, a semi conductor wafer, a CD, and a tray. 10. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the object is grasped between the arms. 11. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein one or more of the anus further comprise a stop that determines a y-axis position of the object when the grasping mechanism pushes the object against a push surface. 12. The grasping mechanism of claim 11, wherein the y-axis position of the object is determined with an accuracy to within 0.1 millimeters. 13. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the support surface determines an x-axis position of the object and the height adjusting surface determines a z-axis position of the object when the arms grasp the object. 14. The grasping mechanism of claim 13, wherein the x-axis and z-axis positions of the object are determined with an accuracy to within 0.1 millimeters. 15. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the grasping mechanism is moveably connected to a boom, which boom is moveably connected to a base. 16. The grasping mechanism of claim 15, wherein the boom rotates about 360 degrees. 17. The grasping mechanism of claim 15, wherein the base comprises at least one push surface. 18. The grasping mechanism of claim 15, wherein the boom and the base comprise a robot. 19. The grasping mechanism of claim 15, wherein the boom moves vertically and horizontally. 20. The grasping mechanism of claim 15, wherein the boom extends and retracts. 21.The grasping mechanism of claim 15, further comprising a controller coupled to the grasping mechanism, which controller controls movement of the grasping mechanism. 22. The grasping mechanism of claim 21, wherein the controller further controls movement of the boom. 23. The grasping mechanism of claim 21, further comprising at least one sensor that communicates with the controller to determine a location of the gripper mechanism relative to the object. 24. The grasping mechanism of claim 15, further comprising a deflectable member that deflectively couples the grasping mechanism to the boom, which deflectable member deflects when the grasping mechanism contacts an item with a force greater than a preset force. 25. The grasping mechanism of claim 24, wherein the deflectable member comprises a breakaway. 26. A gripper apparatus, comprising a grasping mechanism comprising moveably coupled anus that are structured to grasp an object, wherein at least one arm comprises a pivot member that pivots, separately from movement of the arm, to align with the object when the antis grasp the object; a boom moveably connected to a base, wherein the grasping mechanism is moveably connected to the boom; a controller coupled to the grasping mechanism, which controller controls movement of the grasping mechanism; and, at least one sensor that communicates with the controller to determine a location of the grasping mechanism relative to the object. 27. The gripper apparatus of claim 26, wherein the grasping mechanism comprises two moveably coupled arms. 28. The gripper apparatus of claim 21, wherein each arm comprises the pivot member. 29. The gripper apparatus of claim 26, wherein the object is grasped between the arms. 30. The gripper apparatus of claim 26, wherein one or more of the arms further comprise a stop that determines a y-axis position of the object when the grasping mechanism pushes the object against a push surface. 31. The gripper apparatus of claim 30, wherein the y-axis position of the object is determined with an accuracy to within 0.1 millimeters. 32. The gripper apparatus of claim 26, wherein the boom and the base comprise a robot. 33. The gripper apparatus of claim 21, wherein the boom moves vertically and horizontally. 34. The gripper apparatus of claim 26, wherein the boom extends and retracts. 35. The gripper apparatus of claim 26, wherein the controller further controls movement of the boom. 36. The gripper apparatus of claim 26, further comprising a deflectable member that deflectively couples the grasping mechanism to the boom, which deflectable member deflects when the grasping mechanism contacts an item with a force greater than a preset force. 37. The gripper apparatus of claim 36, wherein the deflectable member comprises a breakaway. 38. The grasping mechanism of claim 26, further comprising the object. 39. The gripper apparatus of claim 38, wherein the object is selected from the group consisting of: a plate, a sample plate, a sample holder, a petri dish, a test tube, a vial, a crucible, a reaction vessel, a reaction flask, a semi conductor wafer, a CD, and a tray. 40. A gripper apparatus, comprising: a grasping mechanism comprising moveably coupled arms that are structured to grasp an object, wherein at least one arm comprises a pivot member having a support surface to support the object and a height adjusting surface that pushes the object into contact with the support surface when the arms grasp the object to determine an x-axis position and a z-axis position of the object, and wherein one or more of the arms comprise a stop; a controller coupled to the grasping mechanism, which controller controls movement of the grasping mechanism; and, at least one push surface against which the grasping mechanism pushes the object into contact with the stop to determine a y-axis position of the object. 41. The gripper apparatus of claim 40, wherein each arm comprises the stop. 42. The gripper apparatus of claim 40, wherein the grasping mechanism is moveably connected to a boom, which boom is moveably connected to a base. 43. The gripper apparatus of claim 42, wherein the controller further controls movement of the boom. 44. The gripper apparatus of claim 42, wherein the base comprises the push surface. 45. A method of determining three translational axis positions of an object, the method comprising: providing a gripper apparatus that comprises a controller coupled grasping mechanism comprising moveably coupled arms that are structured to grasp an object, wherein at least one arm comprises a pivot member having a support surface and a height adjusting surface and wherein one or more of the arms comprise a stop; providing at least one push surface; grasping at least a section of the object with the arms such that the height adjusting surface pushes the object into contact with the support surface to determine an x-axis position and a z-axis position of the object; and, pushing the object against the push surface and into contact with the stop, using the gripper apparatus, to determine a y-axis position of the object, thereby determining the three translational axis positions of the object. 46. The method of claim 45, further comprising placing the object at a new location. 47. A gripper apparatus, comprising: a grasping mechanism comprising moveably coupled arms that are structured to grasp an object, wherein at least one arm comprises a pivot member that pivots, separately from movement of the arm, to align with the object when the antis grasp the object; a boom moveably connected to a base, wherein the grasping mechanism is moveably connected to a boom; and, a deflectable member that deflectively couples the grasping mechanism to the boom, which deflectable member deflects when the grasping mechanism contacts an item with a force greater than a preset force. 48. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein the grasping mechanism comprises two moveably coupled arms. 49. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein each arm comprises the pivot member. 50. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein the object is grasped between the arms. 51. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein the boom and the base comprise a robot. 52. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein the boom moves vertically and horizontally. 53. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein the boom extends and retracts. 54. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein the deflectable member comprises a breakaway. 55. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, further comprising a controller coupled to the grasping mechanism, which controller controls movement of the grasping mechanism. 56. The gripper apparatus of claim 55, wherein the controller further controls movement of the boom. 57. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, wherein one or more of the arms further comprise a stop that determines a y-axis position of the object when the grasping mechanism pushes the object against a push surface. 58. The gripper apparatus of claim 57, wherein the y-axis position of the object is determined with an accuracy to within 0.1 millimeters. 59. The gripper apparatus of claim 47, further comprising the object. 60. The gripper apparatus of claim 59, wherein the object is selected from the group consisting of: a plate, a sample plate, a sample holder, a petri dish, a test tube, a vial, a crucible, a reaction vessel, a reaction flask, a semi conductor wafer, a CD, and a tray. 