A preferred embodiment of the invention includes a control system (and corresponding method) which monitors and controls both joint torque and arm position during operation of a device such as a manipulator, whereby oscillation is rapidly removed when the system is disturbed by either movement, stopping of the system after completing a movement, by disturbance from external forces, or any other disturbance. Furthermore, the system can achieve rapid motion over a wide manipulator payload range. This is achieved in a preferred embodiment by providing control of torque and thereby allowing control of the arm deflection. In this illustrative arrangement, the joint torque takes on high levels (below the arm's elastic limit), allowing rapid motion without causing arm oscillation. It has been found that the arm can be transformed from a cantilever-type structure to a pin-free-type structure. The invention allows for high joint torque levels with low frequency content, thereby enabling rapid arm movement without induced oscillation. The invention also provides for rapid arm stabilization in the event that the arm comes into contact with external disturbances.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A method of controlling movement of an object, the method comprising: determining joint torque at an adjacent joint in a location adjacent to the object; determining the position of the object at said joint; and eliminating a fundamental natural frequency of the object by controlling movement of the object if at least one of said joint torque and said position differ from respective predetermined values. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said act of determining joint torque comprises determining joint torque at an adjacent joint located between the object and a gearbox coupled to the object. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said act of determining joint torque further comprises determining external joint torque disturbance. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said act of determining joint torque comprises sensing joint torque at said adjacent joint, wherein said adjacent joint is located between the object and the gearbox. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein said act of determining joint torque comprises calculating joint torque at said adjacent joint based upon a mathematical representation of the object. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein said act of controlling further comprises: comparing the position of the object with a predetermined value in the form of a position command; and generating a joint torque command. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said act of controlling further comprises: comparing said joint torque with a predetermined value in the form of said joint torque command; and generating a control signal as a result of said act of comparing said joint torque for modifying at least one force exerted on the object. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said act of generating a control signal comprises generating a control signal for adjusting an input current to a motor coupled to said gearbox. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method of controlling movement of an object is performed on an object in the form of a flexible robotic arm. 10. A control system for controlling movement of an object, the system comprising: a joint torque sensor for sensing joint torque at an adjacent joint located adjacent to the object; a position sensor for sensing a position of the object at said joint; and a controller for eliminating a fundamental natural frequency of the object by controlling movement of the object based upon at least one of said joint torque and said position. 11. The control system of claim 10, wherein said joint torque sensor senses torque at said adjacent joint located between the object and a gearbox coupled to the object. 12. The control system of claim 11, wherein the joint torque sensor further comprises an external joint torque disturbance sensor for sensing an external disturbance on the object. 13. The control system of claim 11, wherein said controller generates a control signal to modify at least one force exerted on the object in controlling movement of the object, the control system further comprising a motor coupled between the gearbox and said controller, wherein said motor receives said control signal from the controller to control movement of the object. 14. The control system of claim 13, further comprising a motor current amplifier coupled between said controller and said motor for amplifying a motor input current sent to said motor. 15. The control system of claim 10, wherein the object comprises at least one flexible robotic arm. 16. A manipulator comprising: at least one robotic member coupled to at least one joint; at least one joint control circuit, wherein said joint control circuit comprises: a position command unit issuing an instruction input in the form of a position command; a first summer circuit obtaining a difference between the instruction input and a position feedback signal measured at the joint to produce a position error signal; a second summer circuit obtaining a difference between an external joint torque disturbance of the manipulator and a joint torque measurement of said at least one robotic member to produce a joint torque error signal; a first controller, coupled to said first summer circuit, for receiving the position error signal produced by said first summer circuit, said first controller summing a derivative of the position error signal and the position error signal to produce a joint torque command; a second controller, coupled to said second summer circuit, receiving the joint torque error signal from said second summer circuit and producing a motor torque error signal; and a motor with a gearbox, coupled to said second controller, generating a joint position signal based on the motor torque error signal produced by said second controller. 17. The manipulator of claim 16, wherein said at least one robotic member is a plurality of flexible robotic arms, wherein each robotic arm is serially connected at one end to another flexible robotic arm at one end through at least one joint; and wherein said at least one joint control circuit is located in at least one joint for control of at least one robotic arm. 18. The manipulator of claim 17, wherein said at least one joint control circuit is a plurality of joint control circuits for respectively controlling respective ones of said plurality of robotic arms, each joint control circuit being respectively located in a joint connected to at least one robotic arm. 19. A method of controlling a flexible robotic arm by automatically adapting to changes in the flexible robotic arm's fundamental natural frequency, eliminating said fundamental natural frequency of the flexible robotic arm, and producing pin-free boundary conditions for the flexible robotic arm. 20. The method of controlling a flexible robotic arm as recited in claim 19, wherein said adapting and eliminating step comprises: sensing joint torque at a joint between a gearbox and a base end of the robotic arm coupled to the gearbox; sensing a position of the base end of the robotic arm; and modifying an input current to a motor coupled to the gearbox in response to sensing of at least one of the joint torque and the position of the base end. 