A robot calibration system for calibration of a workpiece handling robot relative to a station. The workpiece handling robot includes a sensor mounted on an end effector. The robot calibration system also includes a target, which in coordination with the sensor, allows a control system to determine a center of the target. The target is a wafer in the shape of a disk. A pattern is on at least one side of the workpiece, preferably on a bottom side of the target. The pattern comprises alternating black and white areas. The workpiece handling robot is placed in front of the station which includes a cassette mounted thereon. The cassette has a support surface which supports the target. Once the z-height of the end effector is established with the end effector being in close proximity to a lowermost support surface of the cassette, the end effector proceeds to move in a search pattern searching the pattern for transition points from black to white areas. The control system stores these transition points and uses the transition points in an algorithmic equation to determine the center of the target. Once the center of the target has been identified, the control system knows the spacial relation between the robot and the station, and in particular the position of the workpieces at the station. The station may thereafter be loaded with workpieces and processed accordingly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for determining a relative position between a station including a workpiece support surface and a wafer handling robot having an end effector and a sensor, the system comprising: a target supported on the workpiece support surface; a reflective pattern provided on a side of said target, said reflective pattern having reflective and non-reflective areas separated by transition lines; and control means for (1) moving the sensor in a search pattern around portions of said target while the sensor is in close proximity to said reflective pattern, (2) recognizing when the sensor detects said transition lines, and (3) determining a position on said target based upon the location of said transition lines. 2. A system for determining a relative position between a reference point within a tool and a wafer handling robot having an end effector and a sensor, the system comprising: a target mounted within the tool at the reference point; a reflective pattern provided on a side of said target, said reflective pattern having reflective and non-reflective areas separated by transition lines; and a controller for (1) moving said sensor in close proximity to said reflective pattern, said sensor moving in a predetermined search pattern, (2) receiving information from said sensor when said sensor detects transition lines, and (3) determining a position of the reference point relative to the robot using said position of said transition lines and storing said position. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said target is disk-shaped. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said reflective pattern is located on a bottom side of said target. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said reflective pattern forms a four quadrant configuration such that there are two opposing non-reflective areas and two opposing reflective areas. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor is removably mounted on the end effector. 7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor is an integral part of the end effector. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, further including an indicator on the robot for indicating when the sensor transitions from a reflective area to a non-reflective area, and from a non-reflective area to a reflective area. 9. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said target is square-shaped, and wherein said reflective pattern includes at least six transition lines. 10. A system for determining a relative position between a station that includes a workpiece support surface and a robot having an end effector that includes a sensor, the system comprising: a target capable of being supported on the workpiece support surface; a reflective pattern provided on a side of said target, defining reflective and non-reflective areas on said target, each said reflective and non-reflective area separated by a transition line; control means for (1) moving the sensor in a search pattern around portions of said target while the sensor is in close proximity to said pattern, (2) recognizing when the sensor detects a transition line, and (3) determining a position on said target based upon the location of each transition line; and proximity sensors for sensing if the end effector is parallel to said target. 11. The system as recited in claim 10 further including an actuator for positioning the end effector parallel to said target based on feedback from said proximity sensors. 12. A method for determining a relative position between a station having a support surface and a robot having an end effector that includes a sensor whereby the robot is capable of maneuvering the sensor in a three dimensional space, the method comprising the steps of: (a) supporting a target that has a reflective pattern having reflective and non-reflective areas separated by transition lines; (b) maneuvering the sensor in a predetermined search pattern in close proximity to the reflective pattern on the target; (c) sensing the transition lines; (d) determining a location of the target based upon the transition lines sensed in step (c) in order to determine a position of the robot relative to the station; and (e) storing the location of the target. 