An apparatus for chemical vapor deposition includes a dispenser for dispensing a precursor to a vaporizer positioned within a vaporization chamber. A delivery conduit joins the vaporization with a process chamber. A flow meter is positioned within the delivery conduit for measuring the flow of precursor through the delivery conduit. A flow controller is likewise positioned within the delivery conduit for controlling the flow of precursor in response to the measured flow rate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for depositing a thin film over a substrate surface, comprising the steps of: dispensing a precursor from a reservoir into a vaporization chamber having a first heater the reservoir having a first sensor to monitor a condition of the precursor; measuring a vapor pressure of a vaporized precursor; controlling a rate at which the precursor is vaporized in response to the measured vapor pressure including controlling a dispense rate of precursor in the reservoir; controlling a flow rate of the vaporized precursor with a flow controller, the flow controller having a second heater, a second sensor, a laminar flow element and a third sensor; delivering the vaporized precursor into a process chamber from the flow controller along a heated delivery conduit; and depositing the vaporized precursor in a thin film at a surface of the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the precursor is dispensed from a reservoir onto a vaporizer at a rate set as a function of the measured pressure. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein further comprising measuring vapor flow between the vaporization chamber and the process chamber with a pair of capacitance manometers positioned at opposite ends of the laminar flow element. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of measuring vapor pressure in the process chamber. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring a vapor pressure in the process chamber on opposite sides of a showerhead. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of controlling vapor flow through passages in the showerhead by regulating the openings of valves positioned at the passages. 7. The method of claim 2, further comprising measuring the vapor pressure of the precursor in the vaporization chamber. 8. The method of claim 2 further comprising delivering the vapor generated by the vaporizer such that the vapor passes substantially undiluted through the process chamber. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising fabricating an integrated-circuit on the surface of the substrate. 10. A method of forming a film on a substrate comprising the steps of: measuring a vapor pressure of a fluid precursor; measuring a temperature of the precursor in a reservoir; dispensing the precursor from the reservoir into a heated vaporization chamber; vaporizing the dispensed precursor; regulating flow of the vaporized precursor to a process chamber along a heated delivery conduit with a flow controller having a heater, a first sensor, a laminar flow element and a second sensor; heating a substrate in the process chamber; and depositing the vaporized precursor at a surface of the substrate to form a film of material on the surface. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of providing conformal coverage of a substrate surface by depositing the precursor on the surface of the substrate with the rate of deposition being limited by the rate of reaction at the surface of the substrate. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of raising and lower a substrate chuck to regulate vapor flow through the process chamber. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: controlling the rate of gas flow between the vaporization chamber and the process chamber in response to the measured gas flow to form a layer on the substrate. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of inducing reaction of the vaporized precursor and depositing the precursor or a component of the precursor on the substrate in the process chamber. 15. The method of claim 10, further comprising dispensing the precursor from a reservoir onto a vaporizer. 16. The method of claim 10, further comprising measuring a gas flow between the vaporization chamber and the process chamber with a pair of capacitance manometers positioned at opposite ends of a laminar flow element. 17. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of measuring pressure in the process chamber. 18. The method of claim 10, further comprising measuring a pressure in the process chamber on opposite sides of a showerhead. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of controlling gas flow through passages in the showerhead by regulating the openings of valves positioned at the passages. 20. The method of claim 10, further comprising measuring pressure in a vaporization chamber and dispensing a precursor onto a vaporizer such that the dispensing step is controlled as a function of the measured pressure in the vaporization chamber. 21. The method of claim 10, further comprising heating the delivery conduit with a heater on a valve. 22. The method of claim 15, further comprising generating an electromagnetic field in a substrate chuck positioned in the process chamber. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein the vapor generated by the vaporizer passes substantially undiluted through the process chamber. 24. A method for depositing a film over a substrate, comprising the steps of: dispensing a first precursor from a first reservoir into a first vaporization chamber, the first reservoir having a first sensor to monitor a condition of the precursor; measuring a vapor pressure of a first vaporized precursor; controlling a rate at which the first precursor is vaporized in response to the measured vapor pressure; dispensing a second precursor from a second reservoir in a second vaporization chamber, the second reservoir having a second sensor to monitor a condition of the precursor; measuring a second vapor pressure of a second vaporized precursor; controlling a rate at which the second precursor is vaporized in response to the second measured vapor pressure; controlling a flow rate of the first precursor using a first heated flow controller having a first laminar flow element; controlling a flow rate of the second precursor using a second heated flow controller having a second laminar flow element; providing a system controller connected to the first reservoir and the second reservoir, the first vaporizer and the second vaporizer, and the first heated flow controller and the second heated flow controller to control flow of the first vaporized precursor and the second vaporized precursor into a process chamber; delivering the first vaporized precursor into the process chamber along a second heated delivery conduit; delivering the second vaporized precursor into the process chamber along a second heated delivery conduit; and depositing the first and second vaporized precursors to produce material at a surface of the substrate. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the precursor is dispensed from a reservoir onto a vaporizer at a rate set as a function of the measured pressure. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein further comprising measuring vapor flow between the first vaporization chamber and the process chamber with a pair of capacitance manometers positioned at opposite ends of the laminar flow element. 27. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of measuring vapor pressure in the process chamber. 28. The method of claim 24 further comprising measuring a vapor pressure in the process chamber on opposite sides of a showerhead. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of controlling vapor flow through passages in the showerhead by regulating the openings of valves positioned at the passages. 30. The method of claim 25 further comprising measuring the vapor pressure of the precursor in the vaporization chamber. 31. The method of claim 25 further comprising delivering the vapor generated by the vaporizer such that the vapor passes substantially undiluted through the process chamber. 32. The method of claim 1, further comprising fabricating an integrated-circuit on the surface of the substrate. 