An efficient and safe method and apparatus for collecting exhaust gasses in an open-air sample collection container in a supercritical fluid chromatography system is claimed. The invention uses a vacuum force to evacuate the gaseous phase and vapors separated from liquid mobile phase in a sample collection device. The invention is portable to use on a series of collection containers, such as test tubes or wells in a titration place. Embodiments are claimed for capture of gasses and vapors either internally or externally to a collection container. The invention removes the gasses from the collection container that are then safely vented to a waste collector, thereby creating a safer environment for the laboratory and properly removing and disposing potentially hazardous chemicals instead of venting these chemicals into the environment.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for removing exhaust gasses from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising: a system for controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into a biphasic flow stream containing separate gaseous and liquid phases; a sample collection container exposed to ambient air; a delivery tube delivering said biphasic flow stream into a liquid phase collection container; a vacuum discharge tube having a vacuum force applied to said collection container at a sufficient rate to remove gaseous phase from said collection container. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said vacuum discharge tube is portable and may move between a series of collection containers. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said system is a supercritical fluid chromatography system or supercritical fluid extraction system. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said vacuum discharge tube is inserted into said collection container, applying a vacuum from within said collection container. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising said vacuum discharge tube is attached to a hood that covers said collection container such that said vacuum force is applied externally to said collection container. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said delivery tube is placed in a downward swirl position into said container. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein: said delivery tube is attached to the external surface of said vacuum discharge tube. 8. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein: said deliver tube is attached to the internal surface of said vacuum discharge tube. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said biphasic flow stream is discharged into said collection container at the end of said delivery tube that is positioned tangentially to the inner wall of said collection container. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said delivery tube is inserted into said collection container independent of said vacuum discharge tube. 11. An apparatus for removing exhaust gasses from a flow stream containing a mixture of highly compressed gas, compressible liquid or supercritical fluid and a relatively incompressible liquid, comprising: means for controlling the pressure, temperature and velocity of said flow stream to enhance separation processes of a monophasic fluid mixture into a biphasic flow stream containing separate gaseous and liquid phases; means for directing said biphasic flow stream into a means for collecting, said means for collecting being open to ambient air; means for applying a vacuum force to said means for collecting; means for capturing said gaseous phase flow stream from said means for collecting with said vacuum force. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein: said means for capturing said gaseous flow is portable and may move between a series of means for collecting. 13. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein: said means for controlling is a supercritical fluid chromatography system or supercritical fluid extraction system. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said means for capturing said gaseous flow is a vacuum discharge tube inserted into said means for collecting, applying a vacuum from within said means for collecting. 15. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein: said vacuum discharge tube is attached to a hood that covers said means for collecting such that said vacuum force is applied externally to said means for collecting. 16. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein: said means for directing said biphasic flow stream in a delivery tube placed in a downward swirl position into said means for collecting. 17. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein: said delivery tube is attached to the internal surface of said means for capturing said gaseous flow. 18. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein: said delivery tube is inserted into said means for collecting independent of said means for capturing said gaseous flow. 19. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein: said means for directing said biphasic flow stream is a delivery tube and said flow is discharged into said means for collecting at the end of said delivery tube that is positioned tangentially to an inner wall of said means for collecting. 20. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein: said delivery tube is attached to an external surface of said means for capturing said gaseous flow. 