A system for applying energy to cells so as to elicit the formation of pores, to enhance transfection, and/or cell transformation, includes a computer, a plurality of acoustic probes for controllably applying acoustic energy to batches of cells, and a robot operatively for effecting relative movement between the probes and the batches of cells. Preferably, the acoustic energy comprises ultrasonic energy, which is applied in combination with optical or electrical energy to enhance the formation of pores in surface membranes of the cells.
Claims We claim: 1. A method comprising applying ultrasonic energy in combination with electrical energy to cells to enhance cell uptake of a desired material and to enhance subsequent gene expression, wherein said ultrasonic energy and said electrical energy are applied with a sonoelectroporation transducer comprising electrodes within a transducer ensemble. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said electrical energy comprises one or more electrical impulses and said electrical energy and said ultrasonic energy are generated by the sonoelectroporation transducer, and said electrical energy and said ultrasonic energy are applied sequentially to the cells. 3. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said electrical energy comprises one or more electrical impulses and said electrical energy and said ultrasonic energy are generated by the sonoelectroporation transducer and said electrical energy and said ultrasonic energy are applied simultaneously to the cells. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein an electric field in the range of about 1 to 10 kV/cm is applied to the cells. 5. A method as recited in claim 4, wherein the electric field in combination with ultrasound creates a reverse pore through membranes of the cells. 6. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the sonoelectroporation transducer includes an acoustic element operating at a frequency of between about 10 kHz and about 10 MHz. 7. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the mode of operation of the ultrasonic energy, continuous or pulsed wave, is changed for different applications. 8. A method as recited in claim 7, wherein the pulsed wave mode is used for applications of energy to single cells, unilamellar cell cultures, perfused organs, thick tissues or whole bodies. 9. A method as recited in claim 8, wherein a pulse duration of between about 10 .mu.s to about 10 ms is used. 10. A method as recited in claim 8, wherein a pulse repetition frequency in the range of from about 0.5 Hz to about 1 kHz is used. 11. A method as recited in claim 7, wherein continuous wave mode is used for applications of energy to single cells, unilamellar cell cultures, perfused organs, thick tissues or whole bodies. 12. A method as recited in claim 7, wherein the acoustic energy intensity, defined in terms of I.sub.SATA, or spatial average/temporal average intensity, is in the range of from about 1.0 gW/cm.sup.2 to about 100 W/cm.sup.2. 13. A method as recited in claim 12, wherein the energy intensity is about 0.1 to 5 W/cm.sup.2. 14. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein a frequency range of from about 100 kHz to about 2 MHz is used for the electrical energy. 15. A method as recited in claim 14, wherein an electric field intensity in the range of from about 1 V/cm to about 100 kV/cm is used. 16. A method as recited in claim 15, wherein an electric field intensity in the range of from about 50 V/cm to about 10 kV/cm is used. 17. An apparatus for application of ultrasonic energy in combination with electrical energy to cells to enhance cell uptake of a desired material comprising a sonoelectroporation transducer comprising electrodes within a transducer ensemble to generate said ultrasonic energy and said electrical energy. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said sonoelectroporation transducer generates electrical energy as one or more electrical impulses. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said sonoelectroporation transducer applies said ultrasonic energy and said electrical energy sequentially to the cells. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said sonoelectroporation transducer applies said ultrasonic energy and said electrical energy simultaneously to the cells. 21. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said sonoelectroporation transducer applies ultrasonic energy in combination with electrical energy to cells to enhance subsequent gene expression. 22. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said sonoelectroporation transducer applies an electric field in the range of about 1 to 10 kV/cm to the cells. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein said electric field in combination with said ultrasonic energy creates a reverse pore through membranes of the cells. 24. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the sonoelectroporation transducer includes an acoustic element operating at a frequency of between about 10 kHz and about 10 MHz. 25. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the sonoelectroporation transducer includes an acoustic element that changes mode of operation for different applications to apply the ultrasonic energy in continuous wave or pulsed wave. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said acoustic element applies the pulsed wave mode of energy to single cells, unilamellar cell cultures, perfused organs, thick tissues or whole bodies. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said acoustic element produces a pulse duration of between about 10 .mu.s to about 10 ms. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said acoustic element produces a pulse repetition frequency of from about 0.5 Hz to about 1 kHz. 29. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said acoustic element applies the continuous wave mode of energy to single cells, unilamellar cell cultures, perfused organs, thick tissues or whole bodies. 30. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said acoustic element produces acoustic energy intensity, defined in terms of I.sub.SATA, or spatial average/temporal average intensity, in the range of from about 1.0 .mu.W/cm.sup.2 to about 100 W/cm.sup.2. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein said acoustic element produces the energy intensity at about 0.1 to 5 W/cm.sup.2. 32. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said electrodes produce a frequency range of from about 100 kHz to about 2 MHz for the electrical energy. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein said electrodes produce an electric field intensity in the range of from about 1 V/cm to about 100 kV/cm. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein said electrodes produce the electric field intensity in the range of from about 50 V/cm to about 10 kV/cm. 