The system for automatically dispensing medications or other medical elements includes several groupings, i.e. vaults, of storage members, each vault containing approximately 100 individual cartridges, which each contain packages of unit-of-use doses of a given medication or other medical supply, such as syringes. Each storage member includes an ejector which ejects selected medications/supplies to a supply trough. The packages in the trough are moved to a central collator, which dispenses them to a bin receptacle which has been moved underneath the collator and which is typically identified with a particular patient. Information concerning medications/supplies for a particular patient is stored in a system database and used to determine the particular medications/supplies dispensed into a given bin. Bar coding is used to maintain control over the bins, and the medications, forming a closed information/control system. Particular medications and/or supplies which are not available in the automatic dispensing system are supplied from a supplemental medications cart which has been previously stocked with the correct additional medications by virtue of information from a control computer. The filled bins are transferred to a medication cart which can only be accessed as a result of a command signal after a particular patient and his/her associated bin have been matched. A nurse, having access to the correct bin and sector thereof, removes the medications from the cart and administers them to the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable medication cart for dispensing medical elements, including medications, to patients in a healthcare facility, comprising: a portable medical elements cart; means within the cart for storing medical elements; and a holder member located on a surface of the cart readily accessible by an operator for holding a scanning device used for identifying medical elements, such that an operator can scan a particular medical element without holding the scanner wherein the holder member is located remotely from a storing means for the medical elements and is not part of a dispensing system for the medical elements from the storing means, wherein the medical elements to be scanned must be removed by the operator from the storing means prior to being scanned by the scanning device. 2. An apparatus of claim 1, including a plurality of rotatable support means, each rotatable support means supporting a stack of a plurality of medical element bins. 