A massage machine for massaging a person's body comprising: a robot hand comprising a first digit and at least one second digit that is opposable to the first digit, wherein the first digit and at least one second digit are moveable towards and away from each other; and at least one digit actuator for moving the first digit towards and away from the at least one second digit to massage a region of the person's body to which at least one of the digits is pressed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A massage machine for massaging a person's body comprising: at least one massage applicator shaped to be pressed on a region of a person's body to massage the region; at least one first actuator for controlling motion of the at least one applicator; a support structure to which the at least one massage applicator is mounted moveable to position and orient the at least one applicator to massage different regions of the person's body; at least one second actuator that moves the support structure; a 3D vision system that generates data responsive to features of the person's body and positions of the features; and a computer that receives the data and controls the at least one first actuator and the at least one second actuator responsive to the 3D vision data to selectively control each of the applicators so as to massage at least one region of the person's body with at least one type massage motion. 2. A massage machine according to claim 1 wherein the at least one massage applicator comprises a plurality of applicators. 3. A massage machine according to claim 2 wherein a massage applicator of the plurality of applicators has a shape of a ball. 4. A massage machine according to claim 3 wherein the ball is a relatively hard. 5. A massage machine according to claim 3 wherein the ball is a relatively soft. 6. A massage machine according to claim 2 wherein a massage applicator of the plurality of applicators is a soft cushion. 7. A massage machine according to claim 2 wherein a massage applicator of the plurality of applicators is a robot hand having a first digit and at least one second digit that is opposable to the first digit, wherein the first digit and at least one second digit are moveable towards and away from each other. 8. A massage machine according to claim 2 wherein the computer is programmable to control actuators of the massage machine to massage the person's body responsive to a desired program. 9. A massage machine according to claim 8 wherein the program defines a sequence of desired regions of the person's body to be massaged. 10. A massage machine according to claim 9 wherein the program defines desired massage motions to be applied to each of the desired regions of the person's body. 11. A massage machine according to claim 10 wherein the program defines the duration of each of the desired massage motions. 12. A massage machine according to claim 10 wherein the program defines which of the applicators is used to provide the desired massage motions. 13. A massage machine according to claim 8 wherein the program is modifiable while the computer is executing the program. 14. A massage machine for massaging a person's body comprising: at least one robot hand comprising a first digit and at least one second digit wherein the first digit is opposable to each of the at least one second digit, which first and at least one second digit are moveable to simulate at least one massage motion of the human hand; at least one digit actuator that moves the first and at least one second digit; a support structure to which the at least one robot hand is mounted moveable to position and orient the at least one robot hand to massage different regions of the person's body; at least one motion actuator that moves the support structure; a 3D vision system that generates data responsive to features of the person's body and positions of the features; and a computer that receives the data and controls at least one of the at least one digit actuator and at least one motion actuator of a robot hand of the at least one robot hand responsive to the 3D vision data to massage at least one region of the person's body with at least one type massage motion that mimics a massage motion performed by a person. 15. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein the at least one type of massage motion comprises a squeezing motion in which the first digit and at least one second digit of the robot hand move towards each other to squeeze the region of the person's body with a desired force. 16. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein the at least one type of massage motion comprises a pressing motion in which at least one digit of the robot hand presses a region of the person's body with a desired force of desired magnitude. 17. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein the at least one type of massage motion comprises a kneading motion in which the first digit and at least one second digit of the robot hand press the region of the person's body with a first desired force and squeeze the region with a second desired force while the robot hand executes a circular motion that applies a desired torque to the region. 18. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein the at least one type of massage motion comprises a striking motion in which at least one digit of the robot hand strikes the region with a desired force. 19. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein the at least one type of massage motion comprises a caressing motion in which at least one digit of the robot hand presses the region lightly and moves along the region with a stroking motion. 20. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein at least one digit of the robot hand comprises a relatively sharp protuberance. 21. A massage machine according to claim 20 wherein the at least one massage motion comprises a scratching motion in which the relatively sharp protuberance of a digit of the robot hand that comprises a sharp protuberance presses against the region and the protuberance moves to scratch the region. 22. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein the computer is programmable to control actuators of the massage machine to massage the person's body responsive to a desired program. 23. A massage machine according to claim 22 wherein the program defines a sequence of desired regions of the person's body to be massaged. 24. A massage machine according to claim 22 wherein the program defines desired massage motions to be applied to each of the desired massage regions of the person's body. 25. A massage machine according to claim 24 wherein the program defines the duration of each of the desired massage motions. 26. A massage machine according to claim 22 wherein the program is modifiable while the computer is executing the program. 27. A massage machine according to claim 14 and comprising at least one massage applicator other than the at least one robot hand mounted to the support structure. 28. A massage machine according to claim 14 and comprising at least one sensor that generates digit force signals responsive to a force with which the first digit and at least one second digit move toward each other. 29. A massage machine according to claim 28 wherein the computer receives the digit force signals and controls the force with which the first digit and at least one second digit move toward each other responsive thereto. 30. A massage machine according to claim 14 wherein the at least one robot hand comprises at least one haptic sensor that generates signals responsive to the at least one robot hand touching the person's body. 31. A massage machine according to claim 30 wherein the computer receives the signals generated by the at least one haptic sensor and controls at least one actuator of the massage machine responsive thereto. 