A reactor for plating a metal onto a surface of a workpiece is set forth. The reactor comprises a reactor bowl including an electroplating solution disposed therein and an anode disposed in the reactor bowl in contact with the electroplating solution. A contact assembly is spaced from the anode within the reactor bowl. The contact assembly includes a plurality of contacts disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece to provide electroplating power to the surface of the workpiece. The contacts execute a wiping action against the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into engagement therewith The contact assembly also including a barrier disposed interior of the plurality of contacts. The barrier includes a member disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece to assist in isolating the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution. In one embodiment, the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures while in another embodiment the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. A flow path may be provided in the contact assembly for providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. The purging gas may be used to assist in the formation of the barrier of the contact assembly. A combined electroplating/electroless plating tool and method are also set forth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated tool for planting microelectronic workpieces comprising: a first processing chamber configured to plate a single workpiece separately from other workpieces during an electroless plating cycle, the first processing chamber being an electroless processing chamber that uses an electroless plating process; a second processing chamber configured to plate the single workpiece separately from other workpieces during an electroplating cycle after the electroless plating cycle, the second processing chamber being an electroplating chamber that uses an electroplating process, wherein the second processing chamber comprises a reactor bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution; an anode in the reactor bowl at a location to contact the electroplating solution; a processing head having a contact assembly configured to releasably hold the single microelectronic workpiece seperately from other workpieces, the processing head being moveable transverse to the reactor bowl to position the microelectronic workpiece in the electroplating solution, and the contact assembly having a plurality of contacts configured to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece and move laterally across the surface of the workpiece as the workpiece is brought into contact therewith; and a barrier disposed radially interior of the plurality of contacts, the barrier including a member disposed to seal against the surface of the workpiece; and a robotic transfer mechanism programmed to transfer a workpiece to the first processing chamber for electroless plating thereof and, in a subsequent operation, transferring the workpiece to the second processing chamber for electroplating thereof. 2. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flexures. 3. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of a Belleville ring contact. 4. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising a flow path disposed in the contact assembly for providing a purging gas to the plurality of contacts and the peripheral edge of the workpiece. 5. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 1 wherein the contact assembly is attached to the reactor using at least one latching mechanism. 6. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 1 and further comprising a processing head including the contact assembly, the processing head including a stator portion and a rotor portion, the rotor portion comprising the contact assembly. 7. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 6 wherein the contact assembly is detachably connected to the rotor portion by at least one latching mechanism. 8. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 6 and further comprising a backing member and a drive mechanism, the backing member and contact assembly being moved relative to one another by the drive mechanism between a workpiece loading state and a workpiece processing state, the workpiece being urged against the plurality of contacts of the contact assembly by the backing member in the workpiece processing state. 9. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 8 wherein the drive mechanism is substantially surrounded by a bellows member. 10. An integrated tool for plating a workpiece comprising: a first processing chamber for plating the workpiece using an electroless plating process; a second processing chamber for plating the workpiece using an electroplating process, wherein the second processing chamber comprises a reactor bowl configured to contain an electroplating solution therein; an anode in the reactor bowl at a location to contact the electroplating solution; a contact assembly spaced from the anode within the reactor bowl, the contact assembly including a plurality of contacts disposed to contact a peripheral edge of the surface of the workpiece, wherein the contact assembly comprises an outer body member formed from the dielectric material and a contact support member separately connected to the plurality of contacts, the contact support member being disposed radially interior of the outer body member and being formed from a conductive material; and a barrier disposed radially interior of the plurality of contacts and including a member disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece to effectively isolate the plurality of contacts from the electroplating solution; and a robotic transfer mechanism programmed to transfer a workpiece to the first processing chamber for electroless plating thereof and, in a subsequent operation, transferring the workpiece to the second processing chamber for electroplating thereof. 11. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 10 wherein the plurality of contacts are in the form of discrete flextures, each of the discrete flextures being disposed in a corresponding flexure channel defined between the contact support member and outer body member. 12. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 11 and further comprising a wedge member disposed to engage a corresponding groove in the contact support member along with the discrete flextures to thereby secure the dicrete flextures with the contact support member. 13. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 12 wherein at least a portion of the wedge member assists in stiffening the flexing of the flexure contacts as a workpiece is brought into engagement with the contact assembly. 14. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 10 and further comprising a workpiece guide disposed radially interior of the contact support member. 15. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 10 wherein the barrier comprises a lip formed integrally with the outer body member and disposed to engage the surface of the workpiece. 16. An integrated tool as claimed in claim 10 wherein the barrier comprises an elastomeric seal member supported by the outer body member, the elastomeric seal member engaging the surface of the workpiece. 17. An integrated plating tool, comprising: an electroless plating chamber having a first bowl and a first processing head moveable with respect to the first bowl, the first bowl including a first cup configured to form a flow of an electroless plating solution into a first meniscus in an electroless plating region in the first bowl, and the first processing head having an electroless carrier configured to immerse a microelectronic workpiece in the electroless plating region at the first meniscus during an electroless plating cycle; an electroplating chamber having a second bowl and a second processing head, the second bowl including a second cup configured to form a flow of an electroplating solution into a second meniscus in an electroplating region in the second bowl, and the second processing head having a contact assembly including a plurality of cantilevered contacts arranged to contact a surface of a microelectronic workpiece and hold the microelectronic workpiece in the electroplating region at the second meniscus during an electroplating cycle; and a robotic workpiece handling system configured to carry a single microelectronic workpiece and to load/unload the workpiece into the electroless plating chamber and then the electroplating chamber. 18. The integrated tool of claim 17 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a conductive mount member having a generally annular shape with an opening sized to receive the workpiece, the mount member being the primary support structure of the contact assembly; a dielectric outerbody attached to the mount member, the outerbody having a barrier section projecting inwardly with respect to the mount member to an interior lip sized to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece; and a plurality of flexing contact members electrically coupled to the mount member, the flexing contact members having a first end proximate to the mount member and a second end projecting inwardly from the first end to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the mount member, the first end of the contact members defining contact points that engage the workpiece and electrically couple the workpiece to the mount member. 19. The integrated tool of claim 17 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a primary support structure, the primary support structure being a conductive ring having an outer annular surface, an inner annular surface, a top surface and a bottom surface, the inner annular surface being sized to allow the workpiece to pass through the primary support structure; an outerbody attached to the primary support structure, the outerbody having an annular barrier section projection radially inwardly with respect to the inner annular surface of the primary support structure to an interior lip sized to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece; and a plurality of contact members electrically coupled to the primary support structure, the contact members having a first end proximate to the inner annular surface of the primary support structure and a second end projecting inwardly from the first end to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner annular surface, the first end of the contact members defining contact points that engage the workpiece. 20. The integrated tool of claim 19 wherein the plurality of contact members comprises individual flexure members spaced apart from one another around the primary support structure, each flexure member having an upstanding portion contacting the primary support structure and a transverse portion projecting inwardly from the upstanding portion to extend inwardly with respect to the inner annular surface of the primary support member. 21. The integrated tool of clam 19 wherein the plurality of contact members comprises a conductive web and a plurality of fingers projecting inwardly from the conductive web, the conductive web engaging the primary support structure, and the fingers extending inwardly with respect to the inner annular surface of the primary support structure. 22. The integrated tool of claim 19 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a primary support structure having an outer wall, an inner wall, a first surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, and a second surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, wherein the inner wall defines a receiving opening larger than the microelectronic workpiece; a barrier projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece, the interior lip of the barrier section defining a processing opening smaller that the microelectronic workpiece; and a conductive contact element attached to the primary support structure, the contact element having plurality of contact members that have an outer end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner wall to engage the workpiece, wherein the contact members flex toward the barrier section when the workpiece moves through the receiving opening toward the second surface of the primary support member. 23. The integrated tool of claim 22 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a dielectric outer body attached to the electrically conductive ring. 24. The integrated tool of clam 22 wherein the contact element comprises an annular conductive web having an opening and the contact members comprise a plurality of tabs projecting inwardly from the web toward the opening. 25. The integrated tool of claim 22 wherein the contact element comprises a plurality of individual flexure members such that each flexure member defines a contact member. 26. The integrated tool of claim 19 wherein the first processing head comprises: a stationary assembly; a rotor assembly comprising a housing, and electroless workpiece support assembly attached to the housing, a moveable backing plate between the housing and the electroless workpiece support assembly, and a linear drive system coupled to the housing and the moveable backing plate to drive the backing plate from an open position to a processing position, wherein the backing member is spaced apart from the workpiece support in the open position to receive a workpiece, and wherein the backing member engages a backside of the workpiece and presses a perimeter portion of a front side of the workpiece against the workpiece support in the processing position; and a rotational drive assembly coupling the stationary assembly to the rotor assembly, the rotational drive assembly being capable of rotating the rotor assembly. 27. The integrated tool of claim 26 wherein the electroless workpiece support assembly comprises a ring having an annular barrier with an interior lip and a mounting member attached to the ring and the housing, and wherein the lip defines an opening smaller than the workpiece so that the lip engages the front side of the workpiece when the backing plate is in the processing position. 28. The integrated tool of claim 19 wherein the second processing head comprises: a stationary assembly; a rotary assembly comprising a housing, a contact assembly attached to the housing, a moveable backing plate between the housing and the contact assembly, and a linear drive system coupled to the housing and the moveable backing plate to drive the backing plate from an open position to a processing position, wherein the backing member is spaced apart from the contact assembly in the open position to receive a workpiece, and wherein the backing member engages a backside of the workpiece and presses a perimeter portion of a front side of the workpiece against a portion of the contact assembly in the processing position; and a rotational drive assembly coupling the stationary assembly to the rotor assembly, the rotational drive assembly being capable of rotating the rotor assembly. 29. The integrated tool of claim 28 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a primary support having an outer wall, an inner wall, a first surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, and a second surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, wherein the inner wall defines a receiving opening larger than the microelectronic workpiece; a barrier projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece, the interior lip of the barrier section defining a processing opening smaller than the microelectronic workpiece; and a conductive contact element attached to the primary support structure, the contact element having plurality of contact members that have an outer end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner wall to engage the workpiece, wherein the contact members flex toward the barrier section when the workpiece moves through the receiving opening toward the second surface of the primary support member. 30. The integrated tool of claim 29 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a dielectric outer body attached to the electrically conductive ring. 31. The integrated tool of claim 29 wherein the contact element comprises an annular conductive web having an opening and the contact members comprise a plurality of tabs projecting inwardly from the web toward the opening. 32. The integrated tool of claim 29 wherein the contact element comprises a plurality of individual flexure members such that each flexure member defines a contact member. 33. An integrated plating tool, comprising: an electroless plating chamber having a first bowl, a first processing head moveable with respect to the first bowl, and an electroless carrier including an electrically inactive ring configured to hold a peripheral portion of a microelectronic workpiece and position the workpiece at least substantially horizontally in the electroless plating region of the first bowl during an electroless plating cycle; an electroplating chamber having a second bowl, a second processing head, and a contact assembly configured to hold the microelectronic workpiece in the second bowl during an electroplating cycle; and a robotic workpiece handling system configured to carry the microelectronic workpiece and to load/unload the workpiece into the electroless plating chamber and then the electroplating chamber. 34. The integrated tool of claim 33 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a primary support structure having an outer wall, an inner wall, a first surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, and a second surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, wherein the inner wall defines a receiving opening larger than the microelectronic workpiece; a barrier projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece, the interior lip of the barrier section defining a processing opening smaller than the microelectronic workpiece; and a conductive contact element attached to the primary support structure, the contact element having plurality of contact members that have an outer end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner wall to engage the workpiece, wherein the contact members flex toward the barrier section when the workpiece moves through the receiving opening toward the second surface of the primary support member. 35. The integrated tool of claim 34 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a dielectric outer body attached to the electrically conductive ring. 36. The integrated tool of clam 34 wherein the contact element comprises an annular conductive web having an opening and the contact members comprise a plurality of tabs projecting inwardly from the web toward the opening. 37. The integrated tool of claim 34 wherein the contact element comprises a plurality of individual flexure members such that each flexure member defines a contact member. 38. The integrated tool of claim 33 wherein the first processing head comprises: a stationary assembly; a rotor assembly comprising a housing, an electroless workpiece support assembly attached to the housing, a moveable backing plate between the housing and the electroless workpiece support assembly, and a linear drive system coupled to the housing and the moveable backing plate to drive the backing plate from an open position to a processing position, wherein the backing member is spaced apart from the workpiece support in the open position to receive a workpiece, and wherein the backing member engages a backside of the workpiece and presses a perimeter portion of a front side of the workpiece against the workpiece support in the processing position; and a rotational drive assembly coupling the stationary assembly to the rotor assembly, the rotational drive assembly being capable of rotating the rotor assembly. 39. The integrated tool of claim 38 wherein the electroless workpiece support assembly comprises a ring having an annular barrier with an interior lip and a mounting member attached to the ring and the housing, and wherein the lip defines an opening smaller than the workpiece so that the lip engages the front side of the workpiece when the backing plate is in the processing position. 40. the integrated tool of claim 33 wherein the second processing head comprises: a stationary assembly; a rotor assembly comprising a housing, a contact assembly attached to the housing, a moveable backing plate between the housing and the contact assembly, and a linear drive system coupled to the housing and the moveable backing plate to drive the backing plate from an open position to a processing position, wherein the backing member is spaced apart from the contact assembly in the open position to receive a workpiece, and wherein the backing member engages a backside of the workpiece and presses a perimeter portion of the front side of the workpiece against a portion of the contact assembly in the processing position; and a rotational drive assembly coupling the stationary assembly to the rotor assembly, the rotational drive assembly being capable of rotating the rotor assembly. 41. The integrated tool of claim 40 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a primary support structure having an outer wall, an inner wall, a first surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, and a second surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, wherein the inner wall defines a receiving opening larger than the microelectronic workpiece; a barrier projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece, the interior lip of the barrier section defining a processing opening smaller than the microelectronic workpiece; and a conductive contact element attached to the primary support structure, the contact element having plurality of contact members that have an outer end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner wall to engage the workpiece, wherein the contact members flex toward the barrier section when the workpiece moves through the receiving opening toward the second surface of the primary support member. 42. The integrated tool of claim 41 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a dielectric outer body attached to the electrically conductive ring. 43. The integrated tool of claim 41 wherein the contact element comprises an annular conductive web having an opening and the contact members comprise a plurality of tabs projecting inwardly from the web toward the opening. 44. The integrated tool of claim 41 wherein the contact element comprises a plurality of individual flexure members such that each flexure members such that each flexure member defines a contact member. 45. An integrated plating tool, comprising: an electroless plating chamber having a first bowl, a first processing head moveable with respect to the first bowl, and an electroless carrier configured to seal against a peripheral portion of a microelectronic workpiece and hold the microelectronic workpiece in an electroless plating region of the first bowl during an electroless plating cycle; an electroplating chamber having a second bowl, a second processing head, and an electrical contact assembly configured to hold and rotate the microelectronic workpiece in the second bowl during an electroplating cycle; and a robotic workpiece handling system configured to carry the microelectronic workpiece and to load/unload the workpiece into the electroless plating chamber and then the electroplating chamber. 46. The integrated tool of claim 45 wherein the contact assembly comprises: a primary support structure having an outer wall, an inner wall, a first surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, and a second surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, wherein the inner wall defines a receiving opening larger than the microelectronic workpiece; a barrier projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece, the interior lip of the barrier section defining a processing opening smaller than the microelectronic workpiece; and a conductive contact element attached to the primary support structure, the contact element having plurality of contact members that have an outer end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner wall to engage the workpiece, wherein the contact members flex toward the barrier section when the workpiece moves through the receiving opening toward the second surface of the primary support member. 47. The integrated toll of claim 46 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a dielectric outer body attached to the electrically conductive ring. 48. The integrated tool of clam 46 wherein the contact element comprises an annular conductive web having an opening and the contact members comprise a plurality of tabs projecting inwardly from the web toward the opening. 49. The integrated tool of claim 46 wherein the contact element comprises a plurality of individual flexture members such that each flexure member defines a contact member. 50. The integrated tool of claim 45 wherein the first processing head comprises: a stationary assembly; a rotor assembly comprising a housing, an electroless workpiece support assembly attached to the housing, a moveable backing plate between the housing and the electroless workpiece support assembly, and a linear drive system coupled to the housing and the moveable backing plate to drive the backing plate from an open position to a processing position, wherein the backing member is spaced apart from the workpiece support in the open position to receive a workpiece, and wherein the backing member engages a backside of the workpiece and presses a perimeter portion of a front side of the workpiece against the workpiece support in the processing position; and a rotational drive assembly coupling the stationary assembly to the rotor assembly, the rotational drive assembly being capable of rotating the rotor assembly. 51. The integrated tool of claim 50 wherein the electroless workpiece support assembly comprises a ring having an annular barrier with an interior lip and a mounting member attached to the ring and the housing, and wherein the lip defines an opening smaller than the workpiece so that the lip engages the front side of the workpiece when the backing plate is in the processing position. 52. The integrated tool of claim 45 wherein the second processing head comprises: a stationary assembly; a rotor assembly comprising a housing, a contact assembly attached to the housing, a moveable backing plate between the housing and the contact assembly, and a linear drive system coupled to the housing and the moveable backing plate to drive the backing plate from an open position to a processing position, wherein the backing member is spaced apart from the contact assembly in the open position to receive a workpiece, and wherein the backing member engages a backside of the workpiece and presses a perimeter portion of the front side of the workpiece against a portion of the contact assembly in the processing position; and a rotational drive assembly coupling the stationary assembly to the rotor assembly, the rotational drive assembly being capable of rotating the rotor assembly. 53. The integrated tool of claim 52 wherein the contact assembly comprising: a primary support structure having an outer wall, an inner wall, a first surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, and a second surface between the outer wall and the inner wall, wherein the inner wall defines a receiving opening larger than the microelectronic workpiece; a barrier projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall of the primary support structure to an interior lip configured to engage a perimeter portion of the workpiece, the interior lip of the barrier section defining a processing opening smaller than the microelectronic workpiece; and a conductive contact element attached to the primary support structure, the contact element having plurality of contact members that have an outer end at least proximate to the primary support structure and a contact end projecting inwardly with respect to the inner wall to a location between the interior lip of the outerbody and the inner wall to engage the workpiece, wherein the contact members flex toward the barrier section when the workpiece moves through the receiving opening toward the second surface of the primary support member. 54. The integrated tool of claim 53 wherein: the primary support structure comprises an electrically conductive ring; and the barrier comprises a dielectric outer body attached to the electrically conductive ring. 55. The integrated tool of clam 53 wherein the contact element comprises an annular conductive web having an opening and the contact members comprise a plurality of tabs projecting inwardly from the web toward the opening. 56. The integrated tool of claim 53 wherein the contact element comprises a plurality of individual flexure members such that each flexure member defines a contact member. 