An apparatus and method for improving traction for mobile robots where traction is a concern. The mobile robot of the invention includes wheels and brushes. The wheels are mounted to the body of the robot. The brush is mounted to the body close to the wheels. When the wheels are rotating, the brush rubs against the wheel to get rid of debris on the tread of the wheel and cleans the wheel so that traction for the robot can be improved. An alternative way to improve traction by reducing slippage utilizes suction cups or wiper elements mounted on the wheel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for improving traction for a mobile robot, having a body, the method comprising: mounting at least one wheel on the robot body for propelling the robot body when the wheel is being rotated; and providing at least one brush for rubbing against the wheel so as to clean the wheel and a surface on which the robot moves when the wheel is being rotated. 2. A mobile robot, comprising: a robot body; at least one wheel mounted on the robot body for propelling the robot body when the wheel is being rotated; and at least one brush for rubbing against the wheel so as to clean the wheel and a surface on which the robot moves when the wheel is being rotated. 3. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is stationary. 4. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is disk or cylindrical shaped. 5. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is motor-driven. 6. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is mechanically or electrically controlled to be in contact with the wheel. 7. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is replaced by a scraper. 8. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is replaced by a sponge, cloth or other wiping object. 9. The mobile robot of claim 2, further comprising a tank for water or cleaning solutions so as to discharge water or cleaning solutions onto a tread for cleaning the wheel. 10. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is replaced by a tank for water or cleaning solutions. 11. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising controllably rotating the brush independent of the rotation of the wheel. 12. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the brush is driven by a motor to rotate in contact with the wheel and the surface. 13. The mobile robot of claim 12, wherein the motor is controlled to be on or off. 14. The mobile robot of claim 6, wherein the brush is controlled to be moved out of contact with the wheel and remain in contact with the surface. 15. A mobile robot, comprising: a robot body; and at least one wheel mounted on the robot body for propelling the robot body when the wheel is being rotated, wherein the wheel includes wipers configured to clean a surface on which the robot body is propelled, and wherein the wipers are arranged substantially perpendicular to the circumference of the wheel. 16. A mobile robot, comprising: a robot body; and at least one wheel mounted on the robot body for propelling the robot body when the wheel is being rotated, wherein the wheel includes wipers configured to clean a surface on which the robot body is propelled, and wherein the wipers are disposed in channels which are perpendicular to the rotation of the wheel and are open at the sides of the wheel. 