A method including: sonicating a liquid suspension of first particles; and analyzing the liquid phase for second particles. An apparatus including: a sonicator adapted to sonicate a liquid suspension of first particles; and a first analyzer adapted to analyze the sonicated liquid phase for second particles. The method and apparatus can be used to analyze the adhesion force relationships between the main or host first particles and guest or surface additive second particles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a sonicator adapted to sonicate a liquid suspension of first particles; a first analyzer adapted to analyze the sonicated liquid phase for second particles; and further comprising a data analysis station is adapted to correlate the energy expended by the sonicator with the yield of second particles in the sonicated liquid phase to determine the adhesive force between the first particles and the second particles prior to sonication. 2. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a sample preparation station adapted to suspend first particles in a liquid medium to obtain the liquid suspension. 3. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a sample separation station adapted for separating the first particles from a liquid medium in the resulting sonicated mixture. 4. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a programmable robot adapted to advance liquid suspension samples from the sonicator to the first analyzer. 5. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first analyzer analyzes the liquid phase in the absence of the first particles. 6. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first analyzer analyzes the liquid phase in the presence of the first particles. 7. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the data analysis station is adapted to analyze the data from the first analyzer. 8. The apparatus in accordance with claim 7, wherein the data analysis station is a computer with a programmable memory. 9. The apparatus in accordance with claim 7, wherein the data analysis station is adapted to analyze the data from a second analyzer. 10. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, further comprising a second analyzer adapted to analyze the resulting first particles subsequent to separation from the liquid phase. 11. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first analyzer is an ion coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometer. 12. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first analyzer is a particle size analyzer. 13. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first analyzer is an ion coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometer, a particle size analyzer, a liquid chromatograph, an ultraviolet-visible spectrophotometer, or combinations thereof. 14. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the second analyzer is an ion coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometer, a particle size analyzer, a liquid chromatograph, an ultraviolet-visible spectrophotometer, or combinations thereof. 15. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the sonicator comprises at least one ultrasonic member and a high powered ultrasonic welding source controller. 16. The apparatus In accordance with claim 15, wherein the at least one ultrasonic member is from about three to about ten ultrasonic horns. 17. The apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein a second analyzer analyzes the liquid phase for dissolved analytes solubilized from the surface of the first particles by the sonicator. 18. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, further comprising analyzing the liquid phase for third particles wherein the third particles are liberated from the surface of the first particles, the second particles, or both first particles and second particles during sonication. 19. The apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first particles are host particles and the second particles are guest particles of a composition different from that of the first particles. 20. An apparatus comprising: a sample preparation station adapted to generate particle dispersions; an ultrasonication station comprised of a plurality of ultrasonic horns adapted to sonicate a liquid dispersion of first particles; a sample separation station adapted to separate first particles from a liquid medium in the resulting sonicated dispersion; a sample analysis station adapted to analyze the resulting separated liquid medium for second particles; a data analysis station adapted to analyze the resulting second particles data from the sample analysis station; and a programmable robot adapted to continuously advance a sample container from the sample preparation station, to the ultrasonication station, to the sample separation station, to the sample analysis station, to the data analysis station, and to a sample retention or discard station. 21. An apparatus comprising: a sonicator adapted to sonicate at least one liquid suspension of first particles with pulsed ultrasonic energy, and wherein the sonicator has a power source adapted to convert electrical energy to mechanical energy and thereafter divide and deliver the mechanical energy in equal amounts to two or more horn members. 22. An apparatus in accordance with claim 21, further comprising an enclosure about the sonicator and which enclosure is adapted to provide internal and external isolation of the apparatus, samples, and sample processing from the surrounding environment. 23. An apparatus comprising: an ultrasonic station comprising a plurality of ultrasonic horns adopted to sonicate a liquid dispersion of first particles; a sample separation station adapted to separate first particles from a liquid medium in the resulting sonicated dispersion; and a sample analysis station to analyze the resulting separated liquid medium for second particles. 