This invention provides stroke-multiplying shape memory alloy actuators and other actuators using electromechanically active materials [collectively referred to in this application as SMA actuators] providing stroke multiplication without significant force reduction, that are readily miniaturizable and fast acting, and their design and use; economical and efficient control and sensing mechanisms for shape memory alloy actuators (including conventional shape memory alloy actuators as well as the stroke-multiplying SMA actuators of this invention) for low power consumption, resistance/obstacle/load sensing, and accurate positional control; and devices containing these actuators and control and sensing mechanisms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shape memory alloy actuator, comprising: a set of stacked parallel conductive plates, wherein each stacked parallel conductive plate is separated from an adjacent stacked parallel conductive plate with an insulating layer configured to provide electrical isolation between adjacent stacked parallel conductive plates and a low-friction sliding surface between adjacent stacked parallel conductive plates; and a set of shape memory alloy links connecting said set of stacked parallel conductive plates, said set of shape memory alloy links generating force to produce controlled sliding displacement along insulating layers between adjacent stacked parallel conductive plates. 2. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 1 wherein said insulating layer is a low-friction polymeric material. 3. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 2 wherein said insulating layer is PTFE. 4. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 2 wherein said insulating layer is fluorinated polymer. 5. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 2 wherein said insulating layer is polyamide. 6. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 5 wherein said insulating layer is nylon. 7. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 1 wherein said insulating layer is placed between adjacent stacked parallel conductive plates. 8. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 1 wherein said insulating layer is applied to a conductive plate of adjacent stacked parallel conductive plates. 9. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 1 wherein each stacked parallel conductive plate of said stacked parallel conductive plates has wide end plates connected by a narrow central elongated surface to form a dog bone configuration. 10. The shape memory alloy actuator of claim 9 wherein said shape memory alloy links are connected to said wide end plates of said stacked parallel conductive plates. 