An edge gripping device for a robot arm grips and ungrips substrates, such as semiconductor wafers. A base is fixed to an end of the robot arm. A blade, having a distal contact location thereon, and a pusher bar, having preferably two proximal contact locations thereon, are movably mounted to the base via a linkage mechanism. The linkage mechanism includes two four-bar linkages. The first four-bar linkage has a stationary link and three movable links connected in a parallelogram configuration. The pusher bar is fixed to one of the movable links of the first linkage for movement therewith. The second four-bar linkage has a stationary link and three movable links connected in a trapezoidal configuration. The blade is fixed to one of the movable links of the second linkage for movement therewith. The two linkages share a stationary pivot point. An actuator having one end fixed with respect to the first linkage and an opposite end fixed with respect to the second linkage is operative to move the first linkage and the second linkage. The proximal contact location moves substantially horizontally and the distal contact location moves vertically and horizontally.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An edge gripping device for gripping and ungripping substrates comprising: a base; a distal member extending from the base in a distal direction and having at least one distal contact member at a distal location; a proximal member having at least one proximal contact member thereon at a proximal location; a linkage mechanism movably mounting the distal member and the proximal member to the base, comprising: a first four-bar linkage comprising a stationary link fixed with respect to the base and three movable links, the proximal member fixed to at least one of the movable links of the first linkage for movement therewith, and a second four-bar linkage comprising a stationary link fixed with respect to the base and three movable links, the distal member fixed to at least one of the movable links of the second linkage for movement therewith; and an actuator having one end fixed with respect to the first linkage and an opposite end fixed with respect to the second linkage, the actuator operative to move the first linkage and the second linkage to effect movement of the proximal contact member and the distal contact member between an open position and a closed position. 2. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the distal member is fixed to the second linkage at a proximal end and the distal location of the distal contact member is located a sufficient distance from the proximal location such that the second linkage effects vertical and horizontal motion of the distal contact member. 3. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the linkage mechanism further comprises a stationary link plate fixed with respect to the base, the stationary link of the first linkage and the stationary link of the second linkage defined by pivot points on the stationary link plate. 4. The edge gripping device of claim 3, wherein the linkage mechanism further comprises: a movable link plate spaced from the stationary link plate; and a plurality of link arms pivotally interconnecting the stationary link plate and the movable link plate. 5. The edge gripping device of claim 4, wherein the link arms comprise: a proximal link arm pivotally connected at a pivot point to the movable link plate and pivotally connected to the distal member at a pivot point and pivotally connected to the stationary link plate at a stationary pivot point; a distal link arm pivotally connected at a pivot point to the movable link plate and pivotally connected to the stationary link plate at a pivot point; and an intermediate link arm pivotally connected to the stationary link plate at a pivot point and pivotally connected to the distal member at a pivot point. 6. The edge gripping device of claim 5, wherein the first linkage and the second linkage share the stationary pivot point connecting the proximal link to the stationary link plate. 7. The edge gripping device of claim 5, wherein the first linkage and the second linkage share the proximal link arm. 8. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the first four-bar linkage comprises a parallelogram configuration. 9. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the first four-bar linkage is configured to provide horizontal motion of the proximal contact member. 10. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the second four-bar linkage comprises a trapezoidal configuration. 11. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the second four-bar linkage is configured to provide vertical and horizontal motion of the distal contact member. 12. The edge gripping device of claim 11, further comprising a stop member disposed to limit outward and downward motion of the distal contact member. 13. The edge gripping device of claim 11, further comprising a stop member disposed to limit inward and upward motion of the distal contact member. 14. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising a biasing member disposed to maintain the proximal member and the distal member in the closed position. 15. The edge gripping device of claim 14, wherein the biasing member comprises a tension spring fixed at one end to the proximal member and fixed at an opposite end to the linkage mechanism. 16. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein: the proximal member comprises a pusher bar having extending arms; and the at least one proximal contact member comprises a first proximal contact member disposed on one of the extending arms and a second proximal contact member disposed on another of the extending arms. 17. The edge gripping device of claim 16, further comprising an additional first proximal contact member abutting the first proximal contact member and an additional second proximal contact member abutting the second proximal contact member. 18. The edge gripping device of claim 16, wherein the pusher bar has a curved configuration to conform to a circular substrate. 19. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the distal member comprises a blade, the at least one distal contact member disposed on a distal end of the blade. 20. The edge gripping device of claim 19, wherein: the blade includes a pair of tines at the distal end and; the at least one distal contact member comprises two distal contact members located on associated ones of the pair of tines. 21. The edge gripping device of claim 19, wherein the blade is tapered in thickness in the distal direction. 22. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor disposed to detect the closed position. 23. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor disposed to detect an over-traveled closed position. 24. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor disposed to detect the open position. 25. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the actuator is operative to control forces of the proximal contact member and the distal contact member on the substrate. 26. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the contact members have a waist region or notch therein to retain an edge of the substrate. 27. The edge gripping device of claim 1, wherein the contact members are formed of a cleanroom compatible material. 28. The edge gripping device of claim 1, further comprising a stop member disposed to limit motion of the distal contact member. 29. A robot assembly including the edge gripping device of claim 1 for transporting substrates comprising: a robot arm movable in horizontal and vertical planes, wherein the base of the edge gripping device is mounted to an end of the robot arm. 30. The robot assembly of claim 29, wherein the robot assembly is sized and configured to transport semiconductor wafers. 31. An edge gripping device for a robot arm for gripping and ungripping substrates, comprising: a robot arm movable in horizontal and vertical planes; a base fixed to an end of the robot arm; a blade extending from the base in a distal direction and having at least one distal substrate edge contact member at a distal location; a pusher bar having at least one proximal substrate edge contact member thereon at a proximal location; a linkage mechanism movably mounting the blade and the pusher bar to the base, comprising: a first four-bar linkage comprising a stationary link fixed with respect to the base and three movable links connected in a parallelogram configuration, the proximal member fixed to at least one of the movable links of the first linkage for movement therewith, and a second four-bar linkage comprising a stationary link fixed with respect to the base and three movable links connected in a trapezoidal configuration, the blade fixed to at least one of the movable links of the second linkage for movement therewith; and an actuator having one end fixed with respect to the first linkage and an opposite end fixed with respect to the second linkage, the actuator operative to move the first linkage and the second linkage to effect movement of the proximal contact member and the distal contact member between an open position and a closed position in which a substrate is gripped between the distal and proximal contact members. 32. The edge gripping device of claim 31, wherein the contact members are hourglass-shaped comprising a waist region to retain an edge of a semiconductor wafer. 33. The edge gripping device of claim 31, wherein the contact members are formed of a cleanroom compatible material. 34. The edge gripping device of claim 31, further comprising a stop member disposed to limit outward and downward motion of the distal contact member. 35. The edge gripping device of claim 31, further comprising a stop member disposed to limit inward and upward motion of the distal contact member. 36. The edge gripping device of claim 31, further comprising a biasing member disposed to maintain the blade and the pusher bar in the closed position. 37. The edge gripping device of claim 36, wherein the biasing member comprises a tension spring fixed at one end to the blade and fixed at an opposite end to the linkage mechanism. 