In a method for rinsing and drying a semiconductor workpiece in a micro-environment, the workpiece is placed into a rinser/dryer housing. The rinser/dryer housing is rotated by a rotor motor. The rinser/dryer housing defines a substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber. Rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least one face of the semiconductor workpiece by the action of centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing. A fluid supply system is connected to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the chamber as the housing is rotated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece, such that the rinser/dryer chamber closely conforms to, but does not contact, upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid around the workpiece via the rinser/dryer chamber; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinsing fluid comprises DI water. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinsing fluid comprises IPA vapor and nitrogen. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided at a generally central portion of the rinser/dryer chamber. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinser/dryer chamber is substantially closed. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided into the rinser/dryer chamber via an inlet generally aligned with an axis of rotation of the rinser/dryer chamber. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is removed from the chamber via an outlet positioned to allow removal of fluid via centrifugal force. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided onto the workpiece through an inlet opening in an upper portion of the rinser/dryer chamber. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided onto the workpiece through an inlet opening in a lower portion of the rinser/dryer chamber. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing the rinser/dryer chamber by moving upper and lower chamber members towards each other to form the rinser/dryer chamber. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the upper and lower chamber members are moved together to substantially enclose the workpiece. 12. The method of claim 10 where the upper and lower chamber members have flat upper and lower interior chamber faces, respectively, with the upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece postioned parallel to the upper and lower interior chamber faces. 13. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of moving the upper and lower chamber members vertically away from each other, and then loading or unloading a workpiece onto the lower chamber member. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinsing and drying fluids are introduced onto both an upper surface and a lower surface of the workpiece. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the workpiece is a generally circular semiconductor wafer. 16. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: placing a workpiece onto a lower chamber member; moving at least one of an upper chamber member and the lower chamber member towards each other, to form a chamber enclosing the workpiece and closely conforming to the shape of the workpiece; supporting the workpiece within the chamber; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid around the workpiece via the chamber members; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of introducing the rinsing fluid at a central location of the workpiece and removing the rinsing fluid from the chamber at an outlet opening adjacent to a perimeter edge of the workpiece. 18. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece by moving upper and lower chamber members towards each other to form the rinser/dryer chamber; supporting the workpiece within the rinser/dryer chamber between upper supports attached to an upper interior chamber face of the upper chamber member and lower supports on the lower chamber member; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid around the workpiece via the rinser/dryer chamber; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the upper supports maintain the workpiece spaced apart from the upper interior chamber face and wherein the lower chamber member includes a lower interior chamber face and the lower supports maintain the workpiece spaced apart from the lower interior chamber face. 20. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto an upper surface and a lower surface of the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across the upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid around the workpiece via the rinser/dryer chamber; providing a flow of drying fluid onto an upper surface and a lower surface of the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece. 21. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece by moving upper and lower chamber members towards each other to form the rinser/dryer chamber; connecting the upper chamber member to the lower chamber member, so that rotation of the upper chamber member causes the lower chamber member to rotate with the upper chamber member; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid around the workpiece via the rinser/dryer chamber; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 22. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: placing the workpiece onto a lower chamber member; moving at least one of an upper chamber member and the lower chamber member towards each other, to form a chamber enclosing the workpiece and generally conforming to the shape of the workpiece; supporting the workpiece within the chamber; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid between the upper and lower chamber members and the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; confining the drying fluid between the upper and lower chamber members and the workpiece; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 23. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece, such that upper and lower interior faces of the rinser/dryer chamber closely conform to, but do not contact, upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid around the workpiece via the upper and lower interior faces of the rinser/dryer chamber; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein a space between the upper interior face of the rinser/dryer chamber and the upper surface of the workpiece is substantially equal to a space between the lower interior face of the rinser/dryer chamber and the lower surface of the workpiece. 25. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece, by moving first and second chamber members towards each other to form the rinser/dryer chamber, such that the rinser/dryer chamber closely conforms to, but does not contact, first and second surfaces of the workpiece; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; linking the first chamber member to the second chamber member, so that rotation of the first chamber member causes the second chamber member to rotate with the first chamber member; rotating the first chamber member to rotate the workpiece and generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; confining the rinsing fluid around the workpiece via the rinser/dryer chamber; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the first chamber member to rotate the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 