A loadlock chamber assembly includes a loadlock chamber, a sub-chamber removably attached to the loadlock chamber and a first robot arm having a primary pivot axis within the sub-chamber, wherein the first robot arm can move a substrate from a position approximately in a center of the loadlock chamber to a position outside the loadlock chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A loadlock chamber assembly comprising: a loadlock chamber; and a sub-chamber having a single opening in communication with the load lock chamber, wherein the sub-chamber is free of an independent wafer support and comprises a first robot arm having a primary pivot axis within the sub-chamber, wherein the first robot arm can extend through the single opening between the loadlock chamber and sub-chamber to move a substrate from a position approximately in a center of the loadlock chamber to a position outside the loadlock chamber and the sub-chamber. 2. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 1, wherein the first robot arm includes a first end effector for holding the substrate. 3. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 1, wherein the first robot arm is mounted onto a rotatable shaft sleeve and comprises: a first link arm including an elongated housing having a first end and a second end, wherein the first link arm comprises a first cam disposed within the housing and a first four bar link mechanism coupled to the first cam, wherein the first cam is fixedly coupled to a shaft mounted coaxially within a first shaft sleeve, wherein the shaft defines the primary pivot axis of the robot arm; and a first translating arm pivotably connected to the second end of the first link arm and having a first end effector attached to an end of the translating arm, wherein rotation of the first link arm about the shaft engages the first four bar link mechanism with the first cam and pivotably moves the first translating arm about a secondary pivot axis. 4. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 3, wherein the first link arm and the first translating arm fit entirely within the sub-chamber. 5. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 3, wherein the first four bar link mechanism includes a first cam follower link coupled to both a first link arm body and a first driver link and driven by the first cam, the first driver link being coupled to the first cam follower link, and a first rocker link coupled to both the first driver link and the first link arm housing. 6. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 5, wherein the first rocker link comprises a spring, wherein the spring maintains compression and contact between the first cam follower link and the first cam. 7. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 1, further comprising a first motor for translating the first robot arm along a vertical plane. 8. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 1, further comprising a second motor for pivoting the first robot arm about the primary pivot axis. 9. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 1, further comprising a cold plate disposed approximately in a center of the loadlock chamber. 10. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 9, wherein the cold plate is temperature controlled. 11. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 1, further including a second robot arm pivotable about the primary pivot axis. 12. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 11, further comprising a third motor for moving the second robot arm about the primary pivot axis. 13. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 11, wherein the first and second robot arms can pivot independently of each other. 14. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 11, wherein the first and the second robot arms sequentially remove a first substrate from a process chamber and place a second substrate into the process chamber. 15. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 11, wherein the second robot arm comprises: a second link arm including an elongated housing having a first end and a second end, wherein the second link arm comprises a second cam disposed within the housing and a second four bar link mechanism coupled to the second cam, wherein the second cam is fixedly coupled to a second shaft sleeve mounted coaxially within a third shaft sleeve, wherein rotation of the third shaft sleeve defines the primary pivot axis of the robot arm; and a second translating arm pivotably connected to the second end of the second link arm and having a second end effector attached to an end of the second translating arm, wherein rotation of the second link arm about the third shaft sleeve engages the second four bar link mechanism with the second cam and pivotably moves the second translating arm about a tertiary pivot axis. 16. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 15, wherein the first and second link arms and the first and second translating arms fit entirely within the sub-chamber. 17. The loadlock chamber assembly of claim 11, further including a first motor for moving the first and second arms vertically along a the primary pivot axis, a second motor for pivoting the first robot arm about the primary axis, and a third motor for pivoting the second robot arm about the primary axis. 18. A wafer transport apparatus for transporting substrates between two regions having different pressures without substantially affecting the pressure of either region, the wafer transport apparatus comprising: an airtight process chamber including a means for supporting a wafer to be processed; and a loadlock chamber assembly coupled to the process chamber, wherein the loadlock chamber assembly comprises a loadlock chamber and a sub-chamber coupled to the loadlock chamber, wherein the sub-chamber is free of an independent wafer support, has a single opening in communication with the load lock chamber, and comprises a first robot arm and a second robot arm having a primary pivot axis within the sub-chamber, wherein the first robot arm or the second robot arm can extend through the single opening between the loadlock chamber and sub-chamber to move a substrate from a position approximately in a center of the loadlock chamber to the process chamber. 19. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, wherein the first robot arm includes a first end effector for holding a substrate. 20. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, wherein the second robot arm includes a second end effector for holding a substrate. 21. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, wherein the first robot arm comprises a first link arm, a first translating arm and a first end effector and, wherein the second robot arm comprises a second link arm, a second translating arm and a second end effector. 22. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 21, wherein the sub-chamber is removably attached to the loadlock chamber and wherein the first and second robot link arms and first and second translating arms fit entirely within the sub-chamber. 23. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, further including a first motor for translating the first and second robot arms along a vertical or z axis, a second motor for independently rotating the first robot arm about the z-axis and a third motor for independently rotating the second robot arm about the z-axis. 24. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, wherein a first link arm comprises an elongated housing having a first end and a second end, a first non-rotating cam disposed within the housing at the first end and a first four bar link mechanism driven by the first cam, wherein the first cam is fixedly coupled to a non-rotating shaft mounted coaxially within a first shaft sleeve, wherein the first link arm is coupled to the first shaft sleeve and is rotatable with the shaft sleeve about the shaft defining the z-axis. 25. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 24, wherein the first four bar link mechanism comprises a first cam follower link coupled to a first elongated housing and driven by the first cam, a first driver link coupled to the first cam follower link, and a first rocker link coupled to both the first driver link and the elongated housing of the first link arm. 26. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 25, wherein the first rocker link comprises a rocker arm coupled to the first driver link and a spring, wherein the spring is further coupled to the elongated housing of the first link arm to allow the four-bar link mechanism to maintain constant contact with the cam. 27. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, wherein a second link arm comprises an elongated housing having a first end and a second end, a second non-rotating cam disposed within the housing at the first end and a second four bar link mechanism driven by the second cam, wherein the second cam is fixedly coupled to a second non-rotating shaft sleeve mounted coaxially about a first shaft sleeve, wherein the second link arm is coupled to a third rotating shaft sleeve and is rotatable about the third shaft sleeve defining the z-axis. 28. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, further including a cold plate approximately in a center of the loadlock chamber. 29. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 28, wherein the cold plate is temperature controlled. 30. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, wherein the first and second robot arms can pivot independently of each other. 31. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, wherein the first robot arm transfers a first substrate from the process chamber onto a surface within the loadlock chamber and sequentially the second robot arm transfers a second substrate into a process chamber. 32. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, further including a first motor for pivoting the first robot arm and a second motor for pivoting the second robot arm. 33. The wafer transport apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a closable port disposed between the loadlock chamber assembly and the process chamber, wherein the closable port forms a vacuum tight seal in a closed position and wherein the port is adapted to receive a wafer transported between the loadlock chamber and the process chamber. 