A method including: sonicating a liquid suspension of first particles; and analyzing the liquid phase for second particles. An apparatus including: a sonicator adapted to sonicate a liquid suspension of first particles; and a first analyzer adapted to analyze the sonicated liquid phase for second particles. The method and apparatus can be used to analyze the adhesion force relationships between the main or host first particles and guest or surface additive second particles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: sonicating a liquid suspension of first particles; analyzing the liquid phase for second particles; and further analyzing the liquid phase for dissolved analytes solubilized from the surface of the first particles during the sonication. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the energy expended in the sonication and the yield of second particles in the liquid phase is correlated to the adhesive force between the first particles and the second particles prior to sonication. 3. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the sonication is accomplished with at least one ultrasonic member. 4. The method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the at least one ultrasonic member is controlled by a high powered ultrasonic welding source. 5. The method in accordance with claim 3, wherein the at least one ultrasonic member is from one to about ten ultrasonic horns. 6. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising separating the first particles from the liquid phase in the resulting sonicated mixture. 7. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein separating the first particles from the liquid phase in the resulting sonicated mixture is accomplished by centrifugation, filtration, countercurrent distribution, or combinations thereof. 8. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the liquid is an aqueous liquid, a non-aqueous liquid, or miscible and immiscible mixtures thereof. 9. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the second particles are liberated from the surface of the first particles during sonication. 10. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising analyzing the liquid phase for third particles wherein the third particles are liberated from the surface of the first particles or the second particles during sonication. 11. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first particles have smaller second particles on the surface of the first particles. 12. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the suspension of first particles further comprises at least one surfactant. 13. The method in accordance with claim 12, wherein the surfactant has an HLB of from about zero to about eighteen units. 14. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first particles are present in the suspension in an amount of from about 0.1 to about 20 weight percent based on the total weight of the suspension. 15. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first particles are comprised of a toner composition with at least one surface additive. 16. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first particles are comprised of a developer composition comprised of toner composition and carrier particles. 17. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first particles are from a liquid immersion developer composition. 18. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the first particles are a pharmaceutical dosage form. 19. A method comprising: ultrasonicating an aqueous suspension comprised of at least one surfactant and surface treated toner particles; separating the toner particles from the aqueous phase in the resulting mixture; and measuring the liquid phase for dissolved or suspended surface treatment material stripped from the surface of the surface treated toner particles. 20. The method in accordance with claim 19, wherein the surface treatment material is a fumed silica. 21. The method in accordance with claim 20, wherein the fumed silica is hydrophobically surface treated. 22. A method comprising: ultrasonicating a liquid suspension of host-guest particles comprised of host particles surface treated with guest particles; separating the host particles from the liquid phase in the resulting mixture; and measuring the liquid phase for suspended guest particles stripped from the surface of the surface host particles. 23. The method in accordance with claim 22, wherein the liquid suspension further comprises at least one surfactant. 24. The method in accordance with claim 22, wherein measuring the liquid phase for suspended guest particles stripped from the surface of the surface host particles is accomplished with ion coupled plasma (ICP). 25. The method in accordance with claim 22, further comprising correlating the measured amount of suspended guest particles in the liquid phase with the surface blending procedures used to prepare the host-guest particles. 26. The method in accordance with claim 25, further comprising formulating host-guest particles with superior performance properties based upon the correlation. 27. A method according to claim 22, wherein said host particles comprise a toner. 