The system and method includes a manipulator for manipulating a surgical instrument relative to a patient's body and, a position sensor for sensing the position of the surgical instrument relative to the patient's body. The manipulator can be manually or computer actuated and can have brakes to limit movement. In a preferred embodiment, orthogonal only motion between members of the manipulator is provided. The position sensor includes beacons connected to the patient and manipulator or surgical instrument and, a three dimensional beacon sensor adapted to sense the location and position of the beacons. Redundant joint sensors on the manipulator may also be provided. The system and method uses a computer to actively interact with the surgeon and can use various different input and output devices and modes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a surgical procedure on a patient comprising steps of: inserting an optical viewing device into the patient; supplying an image output from the optical viewing device to an image processing system; and limiting movement of a surgical instrument by a computer connected to a computer controlled limiter having the surgical instrument connected thereto, the step of limiting movement being based, at least partially, upon signals sent by the image processing system to the computer. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the optical viewing device is connected to the surgical instrument, wherein the step of limiting movement limits movement of the optical viewing device in the patient. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the step of limiting movement comprises comparing the image output to a predetermined image in a predetermined surgical plan. 4. A method as in claim 1 further comprising manually moving the surgical instrument by a surgeon, the step of limiting movement of the surgical instrument occurring while the surgical instrument is being manually moved by the surgeon. 5. A method as in claim 4 further comprising a drive actively moving the surgical instrument by control of the computer. 6. A method for controlling movement of a surgical instrument comprising steps of: manually moving the surgical instrument by a surgeon while the instrument is inside a patient; and limiting movement of the surgical instrument while the instrument is inside the patient, the step of limiting comprising applying a computer controller motion limiting force to a manipulator holding the surgical instrument while manual only force is imparted to the instrument by the surgeon. 7. A method as in claim 6 further comprising a drive of the manipulator actively moving the surgical instrument under control of a computer. 8. A method as in claim 6 wherein the step of manually moving the surgical instrument comprises inserting the instrument into a skull of the patient. 9. A method as in claim 6 wherein the step of manually moving the surgical instrument comprises longitudinally sliding the surgical instrument. 10. A method of taking a biopsy of tissue from a patient comprising steps of: inserting a surgical instrument into a patient; moving the surgical instrument predominantly by manual motion by a surgeon, while the instrument is inside the patient, to a target area of the tissue, and limiting movement of the surgical instrument inside the patient to a predetermined surgical plan, the step of limiting comprising a computer controlled motion limiter attached to the surgical instrument limiting movement of the instrument based upon the plan stored in a memory of the computer. 11. A method as in claim 10 further comprising taking a biopsy of the tissue at the target area. 12. A method as in claim 10 further comprising moving the surgical instrument by a computer controlled driver connected to the computer. 13. A method as in claim 10 wherein the step of inserting the surgical instrument into the patient comprises inserting the surgical instrument into a skull of the patient. 14. A method as in claim 10 wherein the step of moving comprises longitudinally sliding the surgical instrument into the patient and the step of limiting limits the distance the surgical instrument is inserted into the patient. 15. A method as in claim 10 further comprising transmitting an image out of the patient and modifying the stored plan based upon the image. 16. A method of performing a neurological surgical procedure comprising steps of: inserting a surgical instrument into a skull of a patient; and limiting manual movement of the surgical instrument by a surgeon while the instrument is inside the skull based upon a predetermined surgical plan, the step of limiting comprising a computer controlled motion limiter being attached to the surgical instrument and applying a computer controlled motion limiting force to movement of the surgical instrument beyond limits of the surgical plan. 17. A method as in claim 16 further comprising moving the surgical instrument by a computer controlled driver. 18. A method as in claim 16 further comprising modifying the surgical plan while the surgical instrument is inside the patient. 19. A method as in claim 16 further comprising transmitting an image out of the patient and the step of limiting using the image for comparison to the surgical plan. 