A method and system for determining the dominant cerebral hemisphere of a subject. There is further provided a method and system for using information obtained regarding hemisphere dominance for programming electronic devices such as robots, prostheses, as well as methods for using such information during treatment and surgical procedures in order to obtain superior function and/or movement when there is injury or disease to an area of the brain. A vectorial view of the role of callosum in the underpinning lateralities of speech and handedness, and as such, provides a technical definition of handedness (i.e., which hemisphere of the cerebrum is dominant in a particular individual subject). This technical definition is then used to completely accurately replicate or predict voluntary movements of the subject and this information, in turn, can be utilized in the field of prosthetics and robotics in order to obtain more accurate depiction of brain function and hence, more authentic replication of movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the dominant hemisphere of a human subject comprising: measuring brain signals of said subject utilizing a modified Poffenberger Paradigm of said subject to measure the reaction time and deduce handedness of the subject based on plotting impulses from each of the two hemispheres of the brain of said subject; employing a vectorial view of the role of callosum in the underpinning lateralities of speech and handedness, by obtaining neuronal signals derived from a population of cells devoted to executive function, and categorizing said neuronal signals such that all signals associated with voluntary movements are mapped and said map is analyzed to determine which hemisphere dominates for said subject, whereby the opposite hemisphere of the true handedness of said subject. 2. A method for replicating or predicting voluntary movement of a subject comprising: determining the dominant hemisphere of said subject by obtaining neuronal signals derived from a population of neuronal cells of said subject that are devoted to executive functions; compensating for any negative CUD (crossed uncrossed differential) determined during said determination by recognizing that all voluntary movements originate from the hemisphere that is opposite of the true handedness of said subject; utilizing brain impulses of said subject taking into account said compensation to replicate or predict movements of said subject. 3. A recorded neuronal signal obtained from a method according to claim 2. 4. A method for controlling a prosthesis or a robot comprising: determining the domanant hemisphere of said subject by obtaining neuronal signals derived from a population of neuronal cells of said subject that are devoted to executive functions and categorizing said neuronal signals such that all signals associated with voluntary movements are mapped and said map is analyzed to determine which hemisphere dominates for said subject, whereby the opposite hemisphere of the true handedness of said subject is defined as corresponding to the dominant hemisphere of said subject; compensating for any negative CUD (crosses uncrossed differential) determined during said determination by recognizing that all voluntary movements originate from the hemisphere that is opposite of the true handedness of said subject; utilizing brain impulses of said subject taking into account said compensation to control movements of said prosthesis or said robot. 5. A robot for implementing a method according to claim 4. 6. A prosthesis for implementing a method according to claim 3. 7. A method for imitating the hand coordination of a human being such that neuronal signals from the brain of said human being are extracted while said human is imagining an activity, said method comprising positioning a signal detection device on said human being; determining said human being's dominant hemisphere by analyzing neuronal signals devoted to executive functions received from said electrodes; creating a map for imitating movement based on an artificial neural network created from said neuronal signals; encoding said map to a series of action potentials into a force to be exerted by an actuator so that said imagined activity is accomplished by said actuator. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said actuator is used in connection with real time control of a robotic device. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein said control is local. 10. A method according to claim 8, wherein said control is remotely conducted via the Internet. 11. A recorded neuronal signal obtained from a method according to claim 7. 12. A system for replicating or predicting voluntary movement of a subject comprising: a means for determining the dominant hemisphere of said subject using a modified Poffenberger Paradigm that can compensate for any negative CUD (crossed uncrossed differential) determined during said determination by recognizing that all voluntary movements originate from the hemisphere that is opposite of the true handedness of said subject; a means for analyzing and utilizing brain emissions of said subject to replicate or predict movements of said subject. 13. An algorithm encoded on a device used to control a robot or a prosthesis, said algorithm comprising: analyzing neuronal signals received from electrodes associated with brain impulses generated by a human subject; creating a map for imitating movement based on an artificial neural network created from said neuronal signals; encoding said map to a series of action potentials into a force to be exerted by said robot or prosthesis. 