Amusement devices including a water cannon are described, that include a reservoir member and a channel member disposed therein. A water cannon may also include a partition, or plunger member that partitions the interior of the reservoir and slides along the channel member. A water cannon includes an inlet to fill the reservoir with fluid. When full, a gas inlet, connected to a control mechanism and controlled by an operator releases a burst of gas such as air into the reservoir, thus driving the plunger member down the channel member through the interior of the reservoir and forcing a spurt or projectile of water out of the channel. A musical water fountain system may include a water cannon. The musical water fountain system may include a sound system for playing music, a water cannon system for producing projectiles of water and a lighting system for producing visual effects.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A water amusement device, comprising: a first hollow member comprising a closed end and an opposite end having an opening therein; a second hollow member comprising first and second opposing open ends, wherein the second hollow member is of smaller diameter than the first hollow member, and wherein, during use, the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the first hollow member to form an airtight seal within the opening, such that the second open end is inside the first hollow member; a partition member with an opening therein, wherein, during use, the partition member is disposed inside the first hollow member and the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the partition member, such that the partition member is slidable along at least a portion of the second hollow member, and further wherein the partition member substantially forms a partition from the exterior surface of the second hollow member to the interior surface of the first hollow member; one or more fluid inlets configured to release fluid into the first hollow member during use; one or more gas inlets configured to release a gas into the first hollow member during use, and wherein the partition member is disposed between a gas inlet and the closed end of the first hollow member during use; and a control mechanism in communication with a gas inlet, the control mechanism being configured to control a flow of gas to the gas inlet. 2. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the first end of the second hollow member is disposed outside the first hollow member during use. 3. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the partition member comprises one or more openings in addition to the opening that contains the second hollow member. 4. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the partition member has a substantially planar shape. 5. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the control mechanism is an electronic switch, a manual switch, a lever, a handle, a wheel, a pedal, a pressure pad, a button, or a trigger. 6. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the first hollow member is a cylinder. 7. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the first hollow member has a cross-sectional shape of a circle, a star, a square, a regular polyhedron, a trapezoid, an ellipse or a figure eight. 8. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the first hollow member comprises a sight for aiming the cannon. 9. The amusement device of claim 1, further comprising a fluid source connected to a fluid inlet. 10. The amusement device of claim 9, wherein the fluid source is a water source and the device is configured to eject a projectile of water. 11. The amusement device of claim 1, further comprising one or more gas release valves configured to release gas from the first hollow member. 12. The amusement device of claim 11, wherein a gas release valve is configured such that the gas release valve is open when the first hollow member is empty of fluid, and the gas release valve is closed when the fluid reaches a predetermined level in the first hollow member during use. 13. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein a gas inlet is connected to a source of pressurized gas. 14. The amusement device of claim 13, wherein the pressurized gas is compressed air. 15. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the second hollow member is about one-third the diameter of the first hollow member. 16. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the second hollow member is from about one-fifth to about three-fifths the diameter of the first hollow member. 17. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the second hollow member is from about one-fifth to about two-fifths the diameter of the first hollow member. 18. The amusement device of claim 1, wherein a fluid inlet comprises a valve configured to control release of fluid into the first hollow member. 19. The amusement device of claim 18, wherein the valve is configured such that the valve is open when the first hollow member is empty of fluid, and the valve is closed when the fluid reaches a predetermined level in the first hollow member during use. 20. The amusement device of claim 1, further comprising a control system and an activation point, the control system being coupled to the control mechanism and the activation point being coupled to the control system, wherein the activation point is configured for detecting a participant signal and further configured to generate a control signal and send the control signal to the control system during use, and wherein the control system is configured to activate the control mechanism in response to a signal from the activation point, such that a gas flows to the gas inlet. 21. A water cannon comprising: an elongated reservoir comprising an opening in one end thereof; an elongated channel member comprising first and second open ends, wherein the channel member forms an airtight seal within the opening in one end of the reservoir during use, such that the first open end is outside the reservoir or coplanar with an edge of the reservoir and the second open end is inside the reservoir; a plunger member of the same size and shape as a cross-section of the interior of the reservoir such that the plunger member forms a slidable partition in the interior surface of the reservoir during use, and wherein the plunger member provides an opening therein configured to accept the channel member and form a slidable engagement with the channel member during use; one or more fluid inlets connected to release fluid into the reservoir during use; one or more gas inlets connected to release a gas into the reservoir during use, and wherein the plunger member is disposed between a gas inlet and the second open end of the channel member during use; and a control mechanism in communication with a gas inlet, the control mechanism being configured to control a flow of gas to the gas inlet. 22. A method of operating a water amusement device, comprising: providing a water cannon comprising: a first hollow member comprising a closed end and an opposite end having an opening therein; a second hollow member comprising first and second opposing open ends, wherein the second hollow member is of smaller diameter than the first hollow member, and wherein, during use, the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the first hollow member to form an airtight seal within the opening, such that the first open end is outside the first hollow member, or coplanar with an end of the first hollow member, and the second open end is inside the first hollow member; a partition member with an opening therein, wherein, during use, the partition member is disposed inside the first hollow member and the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the partition member, such that the partition member is slidable along at least of portion of the second hollow member, and further wherein the partition member substantially forms a partition from the exterior surface of the second hollow member to the interior surface of the first hollow member; one or more fluid inlets connected to a fluid source and configured to release fluid into the first hollow member during use; one or more gas inlets connected to a source of pressurized gas, and configured to release a gas into the first hollow member during use, and wherein the partition member is disposed between a gas inlet and the closed end of the first hollow member during use; and a control mechanism in communication with a gas inlet, the control mechanism being configured to control a flow of gas to the gas inlet; opening the fluid inlet effective to substantially fill the first hollow member with fluid; activating the control mechanism effective to release a burst of gas into the first hollow member, thereby ejecting a projectile of water from the first opening in the second hollow member. 23. A method of manufacturing a water cannon comprising: providing a first hollow member comprising a closed end and an opposite end having an opening therein; providing a second hollow member comprising first and second opposing open ends, wherein the second hollow member is of smaller diameter than the first hollow member, and wherein, during use, the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the first hollow member to form an airtight seal within the opening, such that the second open end is inside the first hollow member; providing a partition member with an opening therein, wherein, during use, the partition member is disposed inside the first hollow member and the second hollow member is disposed in the opening in the partition member, such that the partition member is slidable along at least of portion of the second hollow member, and further wherein the partition member substantially forms a partition from the exterior surface of the second hollow member to the interior surface of the first hollow member; providing one or more fluid inlets configured to release fluid into the first hollow member during use; providing one or more gas inlets configured to release a gas into the first hollow member during use, and wherein the partition member is disposed between a gas inlet and the closed end of the first hollow member during use; and providing a control mechanism in communication with a gas inlet, the control mechanism being configured to control a flow of gas to the gas inlet. 