A conveyor assembly is disclosed for providing selectively spaced products for packing in cases. The conveyor assembly includes a feed conveyor belt for supplying products and first and second pick conveyor belts. A diverter conveyor belt is disposed between the feed conveyor belt and the first and second pick conveyor belts, and adapted to selectively align the feed conveyor belt with either the first pick conveyor belt or the second pick conveyor belt. A first pick motor is operatively associated with the pick conveyor belt for selectively controlling the speed of a first pick conveyor belt. A second pick motor is operatively associated with the second pick conveyor belt for selectively controlling the speed of the second pick conveyor belt. A sensor is operatively associated with the diverter belt for sensing product on the diverter belt. A controller is operatively connected with the sensor and the first and second pick motors for selectively varying the speed of the first and second pick motors to provide a desired spacing of products on the first and second pick conveyor belts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A conveyor assembly for providing selectively spaced products for packing cases, comprising: (a) a feed conveyor belt for supplying products; (b) first and second pick conveyor belts; (c) a diverter conveyor belt positioned between the feed conveyor belt and the first and second pick conveyor belts and adapted to selectively route products from the feed conveyor belt to the first pick conveyor belt and the second pick conveyor belt; (d) a first pick belt motor operatively connected with the first pick belt for controlling the speed of the first pick belt; (e) a second pick belt motor operatively connected with the second pick belt for controlling the speed of the second pick belt; (f) a sensor operatively associated with the diverter belt for sensing product as it passes on the diverter belt; and (g) a controller connected to the sensor and to the first and second pick belt motors for selectively varying the speed of the first and second pick belt motors to provide a desired spacing of products on the first and second pick belts. 2. The conveyor assembly of claim 1 wherein said sensor is a photo cell. 3. The conveyor assembly of claim 1, wherein the first and second pick belts are positioned substantially parallel to each other and wherein the diverter belt is adapted to selectively align with either the first pick belt or the second pick belt in order to selectively deliver product to either the first pick belt or the second pick belt. 4. The conveyor assembly of claim 3 further comprising a first diverter motor operatively connected with the diverter belt for controlling the speed of the diverter belt, wherein the processor controller is connected to the first diverter motor for selectively varying the speed of the first and second pick belt motors relative to the speed of the first diverter motor to provide a desired spacing of products on the first and second pick belts. 5. The conveyor assembly of claim 4 further comprising a gantry robot vacuum head assembly including a plurality of robot vacuum heads selectively spaced and positioned in a line, the assembly being adapted to move sequentially from a first position over the first pick belt, to a second position over a row of cases, to a third position over a second pick belt, and then to substantially the second position over the row of cases in order to allow the vacuum head assembly to lift products off the first pick belt and deposit them into cases, and then lift products off the second pick belt and deposit them into cases. 6. The conveyor assembly of claim 4, wherein the controller is adapted to make frequent periodic adjustments to the first and second pick belt motor speeds in order to accurately adjust for random spacing of products on the feed and diverter belts. 7. A conveyor system for providing selectively spaced products for packing in cases, comprising: a diverter belt assembly, comprising a diverter belt and a diverter belt motor operatively associated with the diverter belt for driving the diverter belt; a pick conveyor belt assembly, comprising a pick conveyor belt and a pick conveyor belt motor operatively associated with the pick conveyor belt for selectively driving the pick conveyor belt, the pick conveyor belt being operatively aligned with the diverter belt for receiving products from the diverter belt; a sensor operatively associated with the diverter belt and operable to sense the position of a product on the diverter belt; an encoder operatively associated with the diverter belt motor and operable to determine the speed of the diverter belt; and a controller operatively coupled to the pick belt motor, the encoder, and the sensor, and adapted to vary the speed of the pick belt motor relative the speed of the diverter belt and position of a product on the diverter belt to selectively space products on the pick conveyor belt. 8. The conveyor system of claim 7, wherein the controller is operable to repeatedly increase or decrease the speed of the pick belt motor in response to the presence or absence of product on the diverter belt in order to adjust the travel of the pick conveyor belt to provide the desired spacing. 9. A system for spacing products on a conveyor assembly, comprising: dual pick belts, wherein said pick belts are parallel with each other; a diverter operable to selectively distribute products to said pick belts; a sensor for determining information about the arrival of products to the diverter; and a controller operatively coupled to said sensor, said diverter, and said pick belts, wherein said controller is operable to adjust the desired operating speed of said pick belts based on information about the arrival of products to the diverter. 10. A method for providing selectively spaced products on a conveyor assembly, comprising the steps of: a) transporting a plurality of products on a feed conveyor belt to a diverter belt; b) aligning the diverter belt with a first pick belt for delivery of a selected number of products to the first pick belt while; c) advancing the first pick belt at a desired speed to provide selected spacing between products on the first pick belt, wherein providing selected spacing comprises sensing the position of a product on the diverter belt, determining the speed of the diverter belt, and adjusting the desired speed of the first pick belt; d) once the select number of products has been delivered to the first pick belt, aligning the diverter belt with a second pick belt for delivery of a second selected number of products to the second pick belt; and e) advancing the second pick belt at a desired speed to provide selected spacing between products on the second pick belt wherein providing selected spacing comprises sensing the position of a product on the diverter belt, determining the speed of the diverter belt, and adjusting the desired speed of the second pick belt. 11. A system for selectively spacing products for packing in cases, comprising: a conveyor assembly operable to deliver products; a sensor operable to detect the position of a product on the conveyor assembly; a first pick off belt assembly adapted to be operable at a desired speed in order to selectively space products on the first pick off belt; a second pick off belt assembly adapted to be operable at a desired speed in order to selectively space products on the second pick off belt; a controller operable to selectively adjust the desired speed of the first and second pick off belts; and a diverter assembly operable to selectively divert products to the first and second pick off belt assemblies. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: an encoder operable to determine the speed of the diverter belt, wherein the controller is operatively connected to the sensor and the encoder and is operable to selectively adjust the desired speed of the first and second pick off belts. 13. The system of claim 11, further comprising a product removal mechanism operatively associated with the first pick off belt and second pick off belt. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the product removal mechanism comprises a plurality of robotic vacuum heads. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the controller is operable to selectively adjust the desired speed of the first pick off belt and second pick off belt to selectively space the products on the first and second pick off belts. 