In a mass storage library, a module storage array includes a back plate having apertures patterned to form a cartridge storage together with cell blocks that mate with the openings in the back plate. A column of cell blocks are held in place between a shelf and a spring load and include calibration targets to align the cell blocks to the library accessor and reader. One stripe the length of the storage cell stack contains a bar-code. The bar-code extends the entire length of the stripe and identifies the individual cell blocks when empty. A plurality of columns of cell blocks provide the complete storage array. Each column of the cell blocks include one stripe with a bar-code along its length that is directly fastened to the back plate with each cell of the column having a separate bar-coding on the strip. The accessor includes a sensor that reads the coding to provide an indication of an empty cell block.
Claims We claim: 1. In a mass data storage and retrieval system for cartridges containing information storing media including: at least one storage cell module array, each including a back plate mounting means having at least one column of cell blocks forming a plurality of cell cavities mounted thereon, each block shaped to hold a cartridge stored therein; a plurality of data recorder modules for receiving and reading information from and writing information to the media of the cartridges for information storage; an accessor including a picker mechanism and associated with the storage module for retrieving cartridges from its storage cell cavity and for transporting cartridges between its storage cell and one of the plurality of data recorders for use by one of the data recorder modules during a reading and/or writing operation and for returning the cartridge to its storage cell cavity after the operation; and a gripper means mounted on said picker mechanism of said accessor for grasping the cartridge to retrieve the cartridge from its storage cell cavity, for holding the cartridge during its transport to the data recording module and for retrieving the cartridge from the data recording module after the operation for transport back to the storage cell; the improvement wherein each back plate mounting means includes continuous label stripes, one stripe fastened to the back plate mounting means behind and along the entire length of each column of cell blocks and containing code markings along its width and along its length such that the code marking is viewable through each cartridge storage cell for indicating an empty storage cell cavity, and also including scanning means mounted to the accessor to scan and read the code marking if the storage cell does not contain a cartridge. 2. The system and improvement as in claim 1 wherein the code marking is a bar-code and the scanning means is adapted to read bar-codes and transmit the bar-code information to the library system. 3. A mass data storage and retrieval system comprising: a plurality of cartridges for storing data information located on media within each of said plurality of cartridges; a data directory for generating, in response to a request from the host central processing unit, a cartridge location output signal identifying the cartridge location within the mass storage library; a plurality of data recorder modules for receiving and reading information from and writing information to the tape media of the selected cartridge for information storage; at least one storage cell module array each including a back plate mounting means having at least one column of cell blocks forming a plurality of cell cavities mounted thereon, each block shaped to hold a cartridge stored therein; an accessor including a picker mechanism and associated with the storage module for retrieving one of the tape cartridges from its storage cell cavity and for transporting cartridges between its storage module and one of the plurality of data recorders for use by one of the data recorder modules during a reading and/or writing operation and for returning the cartridge to its storage cell cavity after the operation; and a gripper means mounted on said picker mechanism of said accessor for grasping the cartridge to retrieve the cartridge from its storage cell cavity, for holding the cartridge during its transport to the data recording module and for retrieving the cartridge from the data recording module after the operation for transport back to the storage cell of its storage module; continuous label stripes having one stripe fastened to the each column of cell blocks and containing a code marking along its width and along its length such that the code marking is viewable through each cartridge storage cell for indicating an empty storage cell cavity, and also including scanning means mounted to the accessor to scan and read the individual code marking if the storage cell code does not contain a cartridge and to report the empty storage cell cavity information to the data directory. 4. The system as in claim 3 wherein the code marking is a bar-code and the scanning means is adapted to read bar-codes and transmit the bar-code information to the data directory. 5. A storage cell module array for a data mass storage library having cartridges containing information storing media, said storage cell module array comprising: a back plate mounting means having at least one column of cell blocks forming a plurality of cell cavities, each cavity shaped to hold a cartridge stored therein; and continuous label stripes having one stripe fastened to the back plate mounting means behind and along the entire length of each column of cell blocks, each label stripe containing a code marking along its width and along its length such that the code marking is viewable through each cartridge storage cell for indicating an empty storage cell cavity. 6. The system as in claim 5 wherein the code marking is a bar-code. 7. A modularized library storage cell array for removable cartridges containing data storage media comprising: a back plate mounting means; at least one column of blocks fastened to said back plate mounting means with each column forming a plurality of cell cavities for retaining the cartridges; and continuous label stripes having one stripe fastened to the back plate mounting means behind and along the entire length of each column of cell blocks, each label stripe containing a code marking along its width and along its length such that the code marking is viewable through each cartridge storage cell for indicating an empty storage cell cavity. 8. The system as in claim 7 wherein the code marking is a bar-code. 