A wheel base or mobile platform providing omnidirectional motion and control. At least two offset wheel assemblies are coupled to a platform that supports a load. Each offset wheel assembly has two wheels that share a common axis and a mechanical link that is pivotally coupled to a pivot point on the rigid platform and supports the two wheels in such a manner that the common axis is displaced from the pivot point. The common axis of the wheels is free to rotate about an axis parallel to the planes of rotation of the wheels. The platform may be turned in any direction specified by a user from any instantaneous configuration or velocity in accordance with a method uniquely specifying a torque to be applied to each of the wheels while each of the wheels is in rolling motion.
Claims We claim: 1. A mobile base for providing omnidirectional maneuverability, the mobile base comprising: a. a rigid platform; b. at least two offset wheel assemblies, each offset wheel assembly comprising: i. two wheels having axles aligned along a common axis, the axles being free to rotate about an axis parallel to the planes of rotation of the wheels, ii. a mechanical link pivotally coupled to a pivot point on the rigid platform and supporting the two wheels in such a manner that the common axis is displaced from the pivot point, and iii. a rotary actuator for independently driving each wheel; and c. a processor in communication with the rotary actuator for transforming a specified platform velocity vector to obtain a unique rotational velocity for each of the wheels. 2. A mobile base in accordance with claim 1, wherein the common axis of the two wheels of each offset wheel assembly is substantially perpendicular to a line connecting the midpoint between centers of the wheels to the pivot point. 3. A mobile base in accordance with claim 1, wherein the rotary actuator includes at least one motor. 4. A mobile base in accordance with claim 1, further including an input device for steering the mobile base in a specified direction. 5. A mobile base in accordance with claim 1, further including at least one sensor for sensing a velocity of a wheel. 6. A mobile base in accordance with claim 1, further including a control loop for correcting deviations of the mobile base from a specified velocity vector. 7. A mobile base in accordance with claim 1, further including at least one passive wheel for supporting the platform. 8. An omnidirectional vehicle comprising: a. a support for supporting a load; b. at least two offset wheel assemblies, each offset wheel assembly comprising: i. two wheels having axles aligned along a common axis, the axles being free to rotate about an axis parallel to the planes of rotation of the wheels, ii. a mechanical link pivotally coupled to a pivot point on the support and supporting the two wheels in such a manner that the common axis is displaced from the pivot point, and iii. a rotary actuator for independently driving each wheel; and c. a processor in communication with the rotary actuator for transforming a specified platform velocity vector to obtain a unique rotational velocity for each of the wheels. 