A robotic vehicle capable of traveling over various terrain and traversing obstacles. In one embodiment, the vehicle includes a cylindrical body having two or more drive wheels coupled to the ends thereof. The wheels are selectively powered to propel the vehicle. The vehicle may further include a spring member which may be deflected to a first, stored position from a second, extended position. The spring member may be quickly released from the first, stored position such that it strikes the terrain with sufficient force to lift and propel the vehicle over or onto a proximate obstacle or object. Robotic vehicles of the present invention may also include one or more sensing devices operable to collect information. Electronics may further permit autonomous, semi-autonomous, and/or remote control of the vehicle. In still other embodiments, the robotic vehicle forms part of a multi-robot surveillance team. The robotic vehicles may be delivered to the desired location through the use of a deployment and communication apparatus which, in one embodiment, is a larger robotic vehicle. The deployment and communication apparatus may form part of the communication system between the robotic vehicles and a remote workstation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for traversing one or more surfaces with a ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, the method comprising: providing a ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, comprising: a body, at least a first and a second ground-engaging member operatively coupled to the body, and a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable between at least a first, stored position and a second, extended position; and a retraction apparatus operable to move the spring member to at least the first, stored position; and energizing one or both of the first and second ground-engaging members so that the ground-engaging robotic vehicle is propelled across a surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises retracting the spring member to the first, stored position, and releasing the spring member from the first, stored position. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises releasing the spring member from the first, stored position and striking the surface, with the spring member, with sufficient force to lift the robotic vehicle from the surface. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises moving the spring member between the second, extended position and the first, stored position. 5. A ground-engaging robotic vehicle, comprising: a body; two or more rotatable, ground-engaging wheels coupled to the body, the ground-engaging wheels operable to propel the robotic vehicle across a surface; a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable between at least a first, deflected position and a second, undetected position; and a retraction apparatus operable to position the spring member in the first, deflected position, the second, undeflected position, or anywhere in between. 6. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 5, wherein the retraction apparatus comprises: a spool; a power source coupled to the spool, the power source operable to selectively rotate the spool in either a first direction or a second direction; and a flexible cable having a first end coupled to the spool and a second end coupled to the spring member. 7. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 5, wherein the retraction apparatus further comprises a latch mechanism operable to secure the spring member when the latter is in the first, deflected position. 8. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 6, wherein rotating the spool in the first direction retracts the flexible cable, moving the spring member towards the first, deflected position and rotating the spool in the second direction extends the flexible cable, moving the spring member towards the second, undeflected position. 9. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 5, further comprising one or more sensing devices associated with the body. 10. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 9, wherein the one or more sensing devices comprises a video camera assembly. 11. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 10, wherein the video camera assembly is coupled to the vehicle with an adjustable base. 12. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 10, wherein the video camera assembly is at least partially enclosed within the body. 13. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 9, wherein the one or more sensing devices comprises a microphone. 14. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 9, wherein the one or more sensing devices comprises a magnetometer. 15. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 9, wherein the one or more sensing devices comprises a tilt sensor. 16. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 15, wherein the tilt sensor comprises at least one accelerometer. 17. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 16, wherein the at least one accelerometer is a two-axis accelerometer. 18. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 5, further comprising one or more antennas coupled to the body. 19. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 18, wherein the one or more antennas comprises an antenna for transmitting status data to and receiving commands from a remote location. 20. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 5, wherein the spring member may be located in the second, undeflected position or in a position between the first, deflected position and the second, undeflected position, such that the spring member engages the surface. 21. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 5, further comprising a drive wheel motor coupled to each ground-engaging wheel. 22. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 5, further comprising a protective casing covering a portion of the vehicle, the casing operable to protect the robotic vehicle during transport and delivery. 23. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 22, further comprising a casing release mechanism operable to release the protective casing from the robotic vehicle. 24. The ground-engaging robotic vehicle of claim 22, wherein the casing is releasable by movement of one or both of the ground-engaging wheels. 25. The ground engaging robotic vehicle of claim 6, wherein the spool is cylindrical and comprises a recessed, continuous helical groove. 26. A method of traversing an obstacle with a ground-engaging robotic vehicle, the method comprising: providing a ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, comprising: a body; at least a first and a second ground-engaging wheel operatively coupled to the body; and a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable between at least a first, deflected position and a second, undeflected position; and locating the ground-engaging robotic vehicle upon a surface proximate an obstacle; and positioning the spring member in the first, deflected position; releasing the spring member from the first, deflected position, whereby the spring member strikes the surface with sufficient force to propel the ground-engaging vehicle over or onto the obstacle. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein positioning the spring member in the first, deflected position comprises: providing a retraction apparatus comprising: a retraction mechanism coupled to the body, the retraction mechanism having a spool rotatably coupled to the body, the spool rotatable in at least a first direction; a cable extending between the spool and the spring member; and a latching mechanism operable to releasably latch the spring member in the first, deflected position; and rotating the spool in the first direction, thereby moving the spring member to the first, deflected position. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising: latching the spring member in the first, deflected position with the latching mechanism; rotating the spool in a second direction opposite the first direction, thereby unwinding the cable from the spool; and releasing the latching mechanism such that the spring member is released from the first, undeflected position. 29. The method of claim 26, further comprising positioning the ground-engaging robotic vehicle proximate the obstacle prior to releasing the spring member. 30. A method of delivering one or more ground-engaging robotic vehicles to a desired location, the method comprising: providing at least one ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, comprising: a body; at least a first and a second ground-engaging wheel operatively coupled to the body; and a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable between at least a first, deflected position and a second, undeflected position; providing a delivery apparatus operable to hold the at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle; and delivering the at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle to the desired location with the delivery apparatus. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein delivering the at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle comprises guiding the delivery apparatus to, or proximate to, the desired location and ejecting the at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle from the delivery apparatus. 32. The method of claim 30, further comprising establishing a wireless communication link between the at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle and a remote workstation. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein establishing the wireless communication link comprises communicating between the remote workstation and the delivery apparatus and between the delivery apparatus and the at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle. 34. A robotic system, comprising: at least one ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, comprising: a body, at least a first and a second ground-engaging wheel operatively coupled to the body, and a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable between at least a first, deflected position and a second, undeflected position; and a remote workstation adapted to wirelessly communicate with the at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle. 35. The robotic system of claim 34, further comprising a delivery apparatus for delivering at least one ground-engaging robotic vehicle to a desired location. 36. The robotic system of claim 35, wherein the delivery apparatus is a robotic delivery vehicle operable from the remote operator station. 37. The robotic system of claim 34, wherein the remote workstation comprises a palm-sized portable computer. 38. A method for guiding a ground-engaging robotic vehicle to the darkest portion of a predetermined area, the method comprising: providing a ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, comprising: a body, two or more ground-engaging wheels operatively coupled to the body, and camera coupled to the body; capturing a first image with the camera; rotating the camera by a discrete increment; capturing a second image with the camera; comparing one or more characteristics of the first image and the second image; and moving the robotic vehicle in a direction based on the comparing of one or more characteristics. 39. The method for of claim 38, wherein the one or more characteristics comprises light intensity. 40. The method for of claim 39, further comprising selecting the direction by determining which of the first and second images have the least light intensity. 41. The method for of claim 39, further comprising comparing light intensity values for a plurality of images taken at a corresponding plurality of camera positions. 42. The method of claim 38, wherein rotating the camera comprises rotating one or both of the ground-engaging wheels. 43. A ground-engaging robotic vehicle, comprising: a cylindrically shaped body; two or more ground-engaging members coupled to the body, the ground-engaging members operable to propel the robotic vehicle across a surface; and a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable,between at least a first, stored position and a second, extended position. 44. The robotic vehicle of claim 43, further comprising a retraction apparatus operable to move the spring member to at least the first, stored position. 45. The robotic vehicle of claim 43, further comprising control circuits operable to permit remote control of the vehicle. 46. A ground-engaging robotic vehicle, comprising: a body; two or more ground-engaging members coupled to the body, the ground-engaging members operable to propel the robotic vehicle across a surface; a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable between at least a first, stored position and a second, extended position; and control circuits associated with the body, the control circuits operable to permit remote control of the vehicle. 47. The robotic vehicle of claim 46, further comprising a retraction apparatus operable to move the spring member to at least the first, stored position. 48. The robotic vehicle of claim 47, wherein the retraction apparatus comprises a retraction mechanism coupled to the body, and a cable extending between the retraction apparatus and the spring member. 49. The robotic vehicle of claim 48, wherein the retraction apparatus is adapted to selectively retract and extend the cable. 50. The robotic vehicle of claim 47, wherein the retraction apparatus further comprises a latching mechanism operable to retain the spring member in the first, stored position. 51. The robotic vehicle of claim 46, wherein the body is cylindrical in shape. 52. The robotic vehicle of claim 46, wherein the two or more ground-engaging members are wheels located at opposite ends of the body. 53. A method for traversing one or more surfaces with a ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, the method comprising: providing a ground-engaging, robotic vehicle, comprising: a body, at least a first and a second ground-engaging member operatively coupled to the body, and a spring member coupled to the body, the spring member movable between at least a first, stored position and a second, extended position; energizing one or both of the first and second ground-engaging members so that the ground-engaging robotic vehicle is propelled across a surface; and releasing the spring member from the first, stored position and striking the surface, with the spring member, with sufficient force to lift the robotic vehicle from the surface. 