A semiconductor substrate processing system, including a single wafer reactor and a multi-wafer holder positionable in the reactor. The system also optionally includes an automated substrate transport assembly including a multi-wand array for transporting a corresponding plurality of wafers into and out of the reactor, and a multi-wafer cassette for simultaneously supplying multiple wafers to the multi-wand array. The multi-wafer modifications permit ready upgradeability to an existing single wafer reactor and markedly enhance the throughput capacity of the reactor while retaining the film uniformity and deposition process control advantages of the single wafer reactor system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor substrate processing system, comprising: a reactor comprising a single substrate deposition chamber; a wafer holder positionable in said deposition chamber, said wafer holder being of plate-like form, and having a plurality of recesses formed therein, wherein n is the number of recesses, to coplanarly hold a corresponding number n of wafers, with a center-to-center distance between adjacent wafers determined by center-to-center spacing between recesses holding said adjacent wafers; a substrate cassette coplanarly holding a corresponding number n of wafers therein, wherein wafers coplanarly adjacent to one another have a center-to-center spacing therebetween equal to said center-to-center distance between adjacent wafers in said wafer holder; and an automated substrate transport assembly comprising a corresponding number n of coplanar wands, wherein wands coplanarly adjacent to one another have a center-to-center spacing therebetween equal to said center-to-center distance between adjacent wafers in said wafer holder, wherein the wafer holder, substrate cassette and automated substrate transport assembly are constructed and arranged for simultaneous coplanar loading of said n wafers from the substrate cassette into said n recesses in the wafer holder, simultaneous processing of said n wafers in the wafer holder in the single substrate deposition chamber, and simultaneous coplanar transport of said n wafers from the wafer holder. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the automated substrate transport assembly and the substrate cassette are constructed and arranged so that when the automated substrate transport assembly is translated into a pickup position relative to the substrate cassette, said corresponding number n of coplanar wands engage and extract said corresponding number n of wafers from the substrate cassette, with each wand engaging and extracting a respective wafer from the substrate cassette, and so that when the automated substrate transport assembly is translated into a deposit position relative to the substrate cassette, said corresponding number n of coplanar wands release and deposit said corresponding number n of wafers on the substrate cassette, with each wand releasing and depositing a respective wafer on the substrate cassette. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said coplanar wands in the automated substrate transport assembly comprise double-sided coplanar wands. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a loadlock chamber for containing the substrate cassette. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein n is 2. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein n is 4. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer holder has a diameter in the range of from about 200 mm to about 350 mm. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer holder has a diameter in the range of from about 200 mm to about 300 mm. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the wafer holder recesses has a diameter in the range of from about 100 mm to about 150 mm. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the wafer holder recesses has a diameter in the range of from about 100mm to about 125 mm. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the single wafer deposition chamber is sized for processing single substrates having a 200 mm diameter. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer holder holds 100 mm diameter wafers. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the recesses formed in the wafer holder is circular. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a processor for programmably operating the automated substrate transport assembly according to a cycle time program. 15. A method of increasing the throughput of a semiconductor processing system including a reactor comprising a single substrate deposition chamber, said method comprising: positioning in said deposition chamber a wafer holder of plate-like form, having a plurality of recesses formed therein, wherein n is the number of recesses, to coplanarly hold a corresponding number n of wafers, with a center-to-center distance between adjacent wafers determined by center-to-center spacing between recesses holding said adjacent wafers; providing a substrate cassette coplanarly holding a corresponding number n of wafers therein, wherein wafers coplanarly adjacent to one another have a center-to-center spacing therebetween equal to said center-to-center distance between adjacent wafers in said wafer holder; providing an automated substrate transport assembly comprising a corresponding number n of coplanar wands, wherein wands coplanarly adjacent to one another have a center-to-center spacing therebetween equal to said center-to-center distance between adjacent wafers in said wafer holder, operating the wafer holder, substrate cassette and automated substrate transport assembly for simultaneous coplanar loading of said n wafers from the substrate cassette into said n recesses in the wafer holder, simultaneous processing of said n wafers in the wafer holder in the single substrate deposition chamber, and simultaneous coplanar transport of said n wafers from the wafer holder. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising positioning the substrate cassette in a substrate pickup and substrate delivery relationship to the automated substrate transport assembly. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising translating the automated substrate transport assembly into a pickup position relative to the substrate cassette, so that the said corresponding number n of coplanar wands engage and extract said corresponding number n of wafers from the substrate cassette, with each wand engaging and extracting a respective wafer from the substrate cassette; translating the automated substrate transport assembly to a deposit position relative to the substrate cassette; releasing from the corresponding number n of coplanar wands the corresponding number n of wafers on the substrate cassette; depositing thin film material on the corresponding number n of wafers in the deposition chamber, to yield the corresponding number n of coated wafers; translating the automated substrate transport assembly into a pickup position after the depositing step is completed, and extracting the corresponding number n of coated wafers from the respective recesses in the wafer holder; translating the automated substrate transport assembly carrying the corresponding number n of coated substrates into a deposit position relative to said substrate cassette or a second substrate cassette; and releasing the corresponding number n of coated substrates to said substrate cassette or a second substrate cassette. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said coplanar wands in the automated substrate transport mechanism comprise double-sided coplanar wands. 19. The method of claim 15, comprising sequentially using multiple wafer holders including positioning one of the multiple wafer holders in the deposition chamber for processing of wafers thereon, and concurrently regenerating another of said wafer holders after it has been in the deposition chamber. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said regenerating comprises etch processing of said another of said wafer holders. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein n is 2. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein n is 4. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein the wafer holder has a diameter in the range of from about 200mm to about 350mm. 24. The method of claim 15, wherein the wafer holder has a diameter in the range of from about 200 mm to about 300 mm. 25. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the wafer holder recesses has a diameter in the range of from about 100 mm to about 150 mm. 26. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the wafer holder recesses has a diameter in the range of from about 100 mm to about 125 mm. 27. The method of claim 15, wherein the single wafer deposition chamber is sized for processing single substrates having a 200 mm diameter. 28. The method of claim 15, wherein the wafer holder holds 100 mm diameter wafers. 29. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the recesses formed in the wafer holder is circular. 30. The method of claim 15, further comprising providing a processor for programmably operating the automated substrate transport assembly according to a cycle time program. 