A guide rail switch for a robotic track system is provided, the robotic track system comprising at least one horizontal guide rail, at least one vertical guide rail, and at least one robot that can move along the guide rails. The switch comprises a frame coupled to the horizontal guide rail and the vertical guide rail, and a moving joint coupled to the frame, wherein the moving joint can move between a first and second position. A first rail section is coupled to the moving joint, wherein the first track section connects to the horizontal guide rail when the moving joint is in the first position. A second rail section coupled to the moving joint, wherein the second track section connects to the vertical guide rail when the moving joint is in the second position. This switch allows the robot to move between the vertical and horizontal rail depending on which position the switch is in.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A guide rail switch mechanism for a robotic track system, the robotic track system comprising a horizontal guide rail, a first vertical guide rail, and a second vertical guide rail that is collinear with the first vertical guide rail and separated from the first vertical guide rail by a space, and at least one robot that can move along the guide rails, the switch mechanism comprising: a straight rail connector section coupled to a switch; a curved rail connector section coupled to said switch; wherein the horizontal guide rail, first vertical guide rail, second vertical guide rail, straight rail connector section, and curved rail connector section are all in a common plane; wherein the switch moves within said common plane between a first position and a second position; wherein when the switch is in the first position, the straight rail connector section connects the first vertical guide rail and second vertical guide rail; and wherein when the switch is in the second position, the curved rail connector section connects the first vertical guide rail and horizontal guide rail. 2. The switch mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the switch is moved by an actuating motor. 3. The switch mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the switch is spring loaded to allow robots to move over the straight connector section and curved rail connector section in only one direction. 4. The switch mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the robotic track system is part of a data storage library. 