System of guidance and positioning relative to a fixed station (1) for an autonomous mobile robot (7) utilizing at least a directional infra-red beam (2') emitted by the fixed station, the mobile robot being provided with a directional system of detection (10a, 10b) of infra-red emission connected to a microcomputer incorporated in the said robot, the robot moving on a work surface in an essentially random manner, the microcomputer (44) including an algorithm able to control the return to fixed station (1) by displacement of the robot (7) towards the direction of emission of said infra-red beam (2'), characterized in that the infra-red beam (2') is a narrow directional beam and in that the system of detection (10a, 10b) is located on a frame at the center of rotation of the robot (7), oriented in the direction of movement of the robot, precise positioning in the fixed station (1) being carried out by rotation of the machine around a vertical axis according to an algorithm based on the detection of the narrow beam (2').
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cleaning robot comprising a rotary brush and a microcomputer, means for detecting the blocking of the rotary brush and an algorithm of disengagement of the robot being associated to said microcomputer, means for disconnecting the rotary brush relative to the associated motor, the algorithm including, during a blocking, a movement of retreat of the robot followed by a rotation and the resumption of forward movement. 2. Robot according to the claim 1 in which the means for disconnecting the rotary brush involves disconnection of the motor from its electrical supply. 3. Robot according to claim 1 including means whereby the number of revolutions of the brush is constantly analyzed by the microcomputer. 4. Robot according to claim 1 in which the algorithm of disengagement comprises a retreat of a distance equal to its diameter, the axis of the brush being in free wheel. 5. Robot according to claim 4 in which the operation of disengagement includes, after said retreat, a rotation and an operation of re-engagement of the brush, an analysis of the state of blocking or releasing of the brush, and in the event of the blocking persisting, a stop of the rotational movement and a new retreat followed by a new attempt at rotation and so on until the brush is released, the maximum number of reiterations being fixed by a program and by the maximum free distance left for the retreat of the robot. 6. Robot according to claim 5 wherein, if this maximum distance is reached without the brush being released, the robot will continue the iterations but in forward movement. 7. Robot according to claim 1 in which the algorithm provides that if no operation succeeds with the release of the brush, a mode of waiting for a manual intervention is applied. 8. Robot according to claim 1 wherein the microcomputer controls, via an algorithm, at least the speed and/or the path of the robot and wherein the microcomputer is associated with an algorithm which takes into account, in order to determine the aforementioned speed and/or the aforementioned path, the measurement of the rotational speed of the aforementioned rotary brush. 9. Robot for cleaning according to claim 8 characterized in that it is a robotic vacuum-cleaner. 10. Robot according to claim 9 characterized in that the microcomputer takes at least in account, for determining the power of aspiration, the measurement of the revolution speed of the aforementioned rotary brush. 11. Robot according to claim 1 wherein the algorithm incorporates a guiding technique for the cleaning of the ground characterized in that the path followed by the robot depends on the quantity of particles present on the surface to clean, the said quantity being estimated by a particle analyzer located near the suction nozzle of the robotic vacuum cleaner, the aforementioned analyzer sending the signals to the microcomputer carried by the mobile robot and controlling the displacement of the robot according to the said signals. 12. Robot according to claim 1 wherein the algorithm can cause a deceleration and/or a linear back and forth movement and/or a back and forth movement in a fan shape of the mobile robot. 13. Robot according to claim 1 characterized in that it comprises a linear sensor of collision surrounding entirely or partly the lower outside portion of the careenage, the sensor including a linear metal conductor and, in parallel, a linear element made of conducting plastic, for example conducting rubber, whose ends are subjected to a potential difference, the linear element in plastic being able to come elastically into contact with the conducting linear element under the effect of a temporary pressure resulting from the impact of the robot with an obstacle, the measurement of the current measured at the level of the conducting element being a signal fed to the microcomputer to locate the point of impact at the lower outside portion of the careenage. 14. A robotic vacuum cleaner comprising a rotary brush and a microcomputer, a means of detecting the blocking of the rotary brush associated to said microcomputer, an algorithm of disengagement of the robot, a means of disconnecting the rotary brush relative to the associated motor, the algorithm including, during a blocking, a movement of retreat of the robot followed by a rotation and the resumption of forward movement. 15. Robot according to claim 14 wherein the microcomputer keeps in memory a global average of dust level as detected by the sensor of dust on a long distance, the activation of one particular algorithm for cleaning taking account of the aforementioned average. 16. Robot according to claim 14 characterized in that the microcomputer takes at least in account, for determining the power of aspiration, the measurement of the number of revolutions of the aforementioned rotary brush. 