The invention is a multiple size workpiece positioning device for the precise positioning or centering of workpieces, such as semiconductor wafers, in a processing station. The inventive includes a plurality of ring bars that may be pivoted on one end. The distal end of the ring bars form a circular shape that may decrease or increase in diameter as the ring bars are pivoted. This movement may be used to position or center the workpiece. A single combination pin or two pins of different heights may be mounted on the distal end of the ring bars. A combination pin or a rest pin and an alignment pin may be used to support the bottom of the workpiece to provide a contact point for an urging force on the edge of the workpiece.
Claims We claim: 1. A workpiece positioning device for precisely positioning a workpiece comprising: a) a housing; b) a plurality of rotational shafts mounted from the housing extending generally in a vertical direction; c) a motor; d) a coupling mechanism coupling the motor to the plurality of rotational shafts; and e) a plurality of ring bars, wherein a first end of each ring bar is connected to one of the rotational shafts and each ring bar extends generally in a horizontal direction. 2. The workpiece positioning device of claim 1 further comprising: f) a plurality of alignment pins, wherein each alignment pin is mounted on the distal end of the plurality of ring bars. 3. The workpiece positioning device of claim 2 further comprising: g) a plurality of rest pins, wherein each pin is mounted on the distal end of the plurality of ring bars. 4. The workpiece positioning device of claim 3 wherein the rotational shafts are substantially equally spaced apart along a circumference of a circle. 5. The workpiece positioning device of claim 4 where in there are more than three rotational shafts. 6. The workpiece positioning device of claim 4 wherein there are six rotational shafts. 7. The workpiece positioning device of claim 4 further comprising: f) a torque limiter functionally coupled to the motor. 8. The workpiece positioning device of claim 4 further comprising: f) a torque sensor functionally coupled to a rotational shaft, ring bar or alignment pin. 9. The workpiece positioning device of claim 4 wherein the workpiece is a semiconductor wafer. 10. The workpiece positioning device of claim 1 wherein the coupling mechanism comprises: a plurality of belt drive pulleys, wherein each belt drive pulley is operably coupled to one of the rotation shafts; a plurality of pulley bearings; and a belt operably coupled to the motor, the plurality of belt drive pulleys, and the plurality of pulley bearings; wherein the motor is able to simultaneously rotate the plurality of rotation shafts in a clockwise direction or simultaneously rotate the plurality of rotation shafts in a counter-clockwise direction. 