The invention relates to a medical imaging means including a movement mechanism (10). The movement mechanism (10) comprises a first mounting part (21) and a second mounting part (22) and at least three link arm members. The link arm assemblies of the mechanism include actuator means and a link arm member or a set of link arm members. The movement mechanism is used for moving a medical imaging device or a part thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Medical imaging means comprising a movement mechanism having a first mounting part (21) and a second mounting part (22) and at least three link arm assemblies (12, 14, 16) that include actuator means (M) and a link arm member or a set of link arm members, said movement mechanism being used for moving a medical imaging device or a part thereof, wherein said first mounting part (21) is mounted on a support structure, said second mounting part (22) is coupled to a medical imaging device or a part thereof, said link arm members are pivotally connected at pivot points to said first mounting part (21) and said second mounting part (22), the length or position of said link arm members being controllable by an actuator means (M), the position, inclination and/or rotation of said second mounting part (22) being controllable by virtue of adjusting the length of the link arm members and/or the height of their pivot points and an active actuator means (18) is operably coupled to the imaging means of the medical imaging device that rotates the imaging means. 2. Imaging means according to claim 1, wherein the trajectory of said second mounting part (22) is steered by a control system based on a microprocessor and a computer program. 3. Imaging means according to claim 1, wherein said actuator means (M) is a hydraulic cylinder. 4. Imaging means according to claim 1, wherein said actuator means (M) is a linear motor. 5. Imaging means according to claim 1, wherein to said second mounting part (22) are coupled means required for imaging with the help of a medical imaging device. 6. Imaging means according to claim 1, wherein to said second mounting part (22) is coupled a C-arcuate body part (41) of a panoramic imaging apparatus having one end of the arcuate body part carrying a source of radiation and the other end carrying a detector of said radiation. 7. Imaging means according to claim 6, wherein said active actuator means (18) is capable of rotating said C-arcuate part (41) of said panoramic imaging apparatus. 8. Imaging means according to claim 1, wherein to said second mounting part (22) is coupled a C-arcuate body part (42) of a mammography apparatus. 9. Imaging means according to claim 8, wherein to said second mounting part (22) is coupled an active actuator means (19) capable of rotating said C-arcuate body part (42) of said mammography apparatus. 10. A medical imaging assembly comprising: a first mounting part adapted for attachment to a support structure; a second mounting part adapted for attachment to a medical imaging device; at least three link arm assemblies structured and arranged for interconnecting said first and second mounting parts, each link arm assembly including a link arm having an adjustable length, each of said link arms being attached at a first end to said first mounting part by a universal joint connection and at a second end to said second mounting part by another universal joint connection, means for selectively controlling the length of said link arm; and an actuator operably coupled to said medical imaging device for rotating said medical imaging device. 11. The medical imaging assembly according to claim 10, wherein the lengths of said link arms are adjusted according to a control system including a microprocessor and a computer program. 12. The medical imaging assembly according to claim 10, wherein said means for selectively controlling the length of said arm comprises a hydraulic cylinder. 13. The medical imaging assembly according to claim 10, wherein said means for selectively controlling the length of said arm comprises a linear motor. 14. The medical imaging assembly according to claim 10, further comprising an arcuate body part of a panoramic imaging apparatus coupled to said second mounting part, said arcuate body part having a first end including a source of radiation and a second end having a detector for detecting radiation. 15. The medical imaging assembly according to claim 14, wherein said actuator coupled to said medical imaging device is operably coupled to said arcuate body part of said panoramic imaging apparatus. 16. The medical imaging assembly according to claim 10, further comprising an arcuate body part of a mammography apparatus coupled to said second mounting part. 17. The medical imaging assembly according to claim 16, wherein said actuator coupled to said medical imaging device is operably coupled to said arcuate body of said mammography apparatus. 