A novel, portable coordinate measuring machine comprises a multijointed (preferably six joints) manually positionable measuring arm for accurately and easily measuring a volume, which in a preferred embodiment, comprises a sphere ranging from six to eight feet in diameter and a measuring accuracy of 2 Sigma +/-0.005 inch. In addition to the measuring arm, the present invention employs a controller (or serial box) which acts as the electronic interface between the arm and a host computer. The coordinate measuring machine of this invention is particularly useful in a novel method of generating an error map and thus correcting and/or programming the tool path for multi-axis machining centers, particularly robots.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for generating an error map for multi-axis devices in order to improve the repeatability and/or precision of multi-axis devices comprising the steps of: (1) attaching the measurement arm of a passive three dimensional coordinate measuring machine (CMM) having multiple degrees of freedom to a multi-axis device and operating the CMM through a selected 3-dimensional path or operation which emulates the desired proselected programmed path or operation of the multi-axis device; (2) developing 3-dimensional data of at least one of (a) position and (b) orientation from step (1) and storing said data, said data defining the actual path or operation of the multi-axis device; (3) comparing the actual path or operation to the desired preselected programmed path or operation; (4) generating an error map comparing the actual path or operation to the desired preselected programmed path or operation; and (5) using said error map to improve the repeatability and/or precision of the multi-axis device; wherein said CMM includes 6 degrees of freedom, said CMM comprises: a movable arm having opposed first and second ends, said arm including a plurality of joints with each joint corresponding to a degree of freedom such that said arm is movable within a selected volume, each of said joints comprising a rotational transfer housing for housing a position transducer, said transducer producing a position signal; a support base attached to said first end of said movable arm; a probe attached to said second end of said movable arm; and an electronic circuit for receiving said position signals from said transducer and providing a digital coordinate corresponding to the position of said probe in a selected volume. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein: said multi-axis device comprises a device having at least 3 axes and the data developed in step (2) comprises position or orientation data. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: said multi-axis device comprises a device having at least 5 axes and the data developed in step (2) comprises position and orientation data. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein: said multi-axis device comprises a machining device. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein: said multi-axis device comprises a robot. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein: said operation is selected from the group consisting of welding, sanding, cutting, machining, polishing, grinding, painting and cleaning. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein: a mechanical linkage is used to attach said CMM to said multi-axis device. 