A system and method which provide a non-biological self replicating manufacturing system ("SRMS") are disclosed. A preferred embodiment provides an SRMS that enables assembly stations to replicate. In a preferred embodiment, positional assembly is utilized by one or more assembly stations to construct like assembly stations. Furthermore, in a most preferred embodiment, such assembly stations are small scale devices that are capable of working with small scale parts, such as micron-scale, nanometer-scale or even molecular-scale parts, in order to construct like assembly devices. The SRMS of a preferred embodiment performs surface-to-surface assembly. For example, an assembly station on a first surface (e.g., wafer), Surface A, constructs a like assembly station on another surface (e.g., wafer), Surface B. Most preferably, the assembly stations replicate at an exponential rate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station; causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface; and causing at least one assembly station on said second surface to construct at least one like assembly station on said first surface from parts on said first surface. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said parts are prearranged on said second surface. 3. The method of claim 1 further including the step of: constructing said initial assembly station on said first surface. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said first and second surfaces are wafers. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said wafers each include at least one die site on which said parts are prearranged. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said like assembly station is an assembly station having at least one degree of rotational freedom. 7. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station; and causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface, wherein said like assembly station comprises at least two degrees of rotational freedom. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said initial assembly station is an assembly station having at least one degree of rotational freedom. 9. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon, wherein said initial assembly station is an assembly station having at least two degrees of rotational freedom; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station; and causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said causing step further includes: communicating instructions from a control computer to said at least an initial assembly station. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said communicating said instructions is via a broadcast architecture. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said control computer is associated with a particular assembly station for communicating said instructions only to said particular assembly station. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said at least an initial assembly station constructs said at least one like assembly station utilizing dead reckoning operations. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said dead reckoning operations include operations in which no feedback is provided from said at least an initial assembly station to said control computer. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein said at least an initial assembly station provides feedback to said control computer in constructing said at least one like assembly station. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said feedback includes sensor-driven feedback. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said sensor-driven feedback includes feedback driven by positional sensors. 18. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station; translating at least one of said first and second surfaces with respect to the other of said first and second surfaces; and causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said translating simultaneously translates all assembly stations of at least one of said first and second surfaces with respect to the other of said first and second surfaces. 20. The method of claim 18 further including the step of: causing at least one assembly station on said second surface to construct at least one like assembly station on said first surface from parts on said first surface. 21. The method of claim 1 wherein said parts on said first surface are prearranged on said first surface. 22. The method of claim 1 further including the step of: causing said at least one assembly station on said first surface to construct at least one like assembly station on said second surface from parts on said second surface, and causing said at least one assembly station on said second surface to construct at least one like assembly station on said first surface from parts on said first surface in a ping-pong manner. 23. The method of claim 1 further including the step of: causing said at least one assembly station on said second surface to construct at least one like assembly station on said first surface from parts on said first surface in parallel with said causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface. 24. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station; causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface; and causing said assembly stations to replicate at an exponential rate. 25. The method of claim 24 further including the step of: causing said assembly stations to replicate according to a Fibonacci sequence. 26. The method of claim 24 further including the step of: causing said assembly stations to replicate in a manner such that n assembly iterations result in on the order of 2n assembly stations. 27. The method of claim 1 wherein said assembly station is a micron-scale assembly station. 28. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station; and causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface, wherein said like assembly station is an assembly station selected from the group consisting of nanometer-scale assembly station and molecular-scale assembly station. 29. The method of claim 1 wherein said assembly station is a MEMS device. 30. The method of claim 1 wherein said parts are micron-scale parts. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising the step of: producing said parts using a lithographically-based process. 32. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: producing said parts by a process selected from the group consisting of lithographic, self-assembly, complementary molecular, and mechanical processes. 33. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station, wherein said parts are selected from the group consisting of nanometer-scale parts and molecular-scale parts; and causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface. 34. A method of manufacturing comprising the steps of: providing a first surface having at least an initial assembly station thereon; providing a second surface having parts for constructing at least one other assembly station, wherein said first and second surfaces face each other and wherein said first and second surfaces are arranged as mirror images of each other; and causing said at least an initial assembly station to construct at least one like assembly station from the parts on said second surface. 35. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 36. A non-biological self replicating manufacturing system comprising: a translating machine capable of translating at least a first surface in relation to at least a second surface, wherein said at least a first surface comprises at least one assembly station thereon and wherein said at least a second surface comprises parts arranged thereon for use in constructing at least one other assembly station; and a control system for controlling the operation of said translating machine and for controlling said at least one assembly station to cause said at least one assembly station to construct at least one other assembly station from said parts on said second surface. 37. The system of claim 36 wherein said at least one other assembly station is a like assembly station. 38. The system of claim 37 wherein said like assembly station is identical to said at least one assembly station. 39. The system of claim 37 wherein said like assembly station is a mirror image of said at least one assembly station. 40. The system of claim 37 wherein said like assembly station is a smaller-scale assembly station than said at least one assembly station. 41. The system of claim 37 wherein said like assembly station is a larger-scale assembly station than said at least one assembly station. 42. The system of claim 36 wherein said parts are selected from the group consisting of micron-scale parts, nanometer-scale parts, and molecular-scale parts. 43. The system of claim 42 wherein said parts are lithographically-based parts. 44. The system of claim 36 wherein said at least one assembly station is a micronscale assembly station. 45. The system of claim 36 wherein said at least one assembly station of said at least a first surface have shared translational degrees of freedom with any other ones of said at least one assembly station of said at least a first surface with respect to said at least a second surface. 46. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: presenting at least a first group of parts on a first surface to at least a first group of assembly stations, wherein said at least a first group of parts comprise parts selected from the group consisting of nanometer-scale parts and molecular-scale parts; and causing said at least a first group of assembly stations to construct at least a second group of like assembly stations from said at least a first group of parts. 47. The method of claim 46 wherein said first group of assembly stations are on a second surface. 48. The method of claim 46 wherein said at least a first group of parts are prearranged on said first surface. 49. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: presenting at least a first group of parts on a first surface to at least a first group of assembly stations; causing said at least a first group of assembly stations to construct at least a second group of like assembly stations from said at least a first group of parts; presenting at least a second group of parts on a second surface to said at least a second group of like assembly stations; and causing said at least a second group of like assembly stations to construct at least a third group of like assembly stations from said at least a second group of parts. 50. The method of claim 49 wherein said at least a second group of parts are prearranged on said second surface. 51. The method of claim 49 wherein said at least a second group of assembly stations are on said first surface. 52. The method of claim 49 wherein said first and said second surfaces are surfaces of the same substrate. 53. The method of claim 49 wherein said at least a first group of assembly stations are on said second surface and said at least a second group of assembly stations are on said first surface. 54. The method of claim 53 wherein said at least a third group of assembly stations are on said second surface. 55. The method of claim 49 wherein said first, second, and third groups of assembly stations each include at least one assembly station. 56. The method of claim 49 further including the steps of: in parallel with said presenting at least a second group of parts on said second surface to said at least a second group of like assembly stations and said causing said at least a second group of like assembly stations to construct at least a third group of like assembly stations from said at least a second group of parts, presenting at least a third group of parts on said first surface to at least said first group of assembly stations and causing said at least a first group of assembly stations to construct at least a fourth group of like assembly stations from said at least a third group of parts. 57. The method of claim 46 wherein said at least a second group of like assembly stations are identical to said at least a first group of assembly stations. 58. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: presenting at least a first group of parts on a first surface to at least a first group of assembly stations; causing said at least a first group of assembly stations to construct at least a second group of like assembly stations from said at least a first group of parts, wherein said at least a second group of like assembly stations are mirror images of said at least a first group of assembly stations. 59. The method of claim 46 wherein said at least a second group of like assembly stations are smaller-scale assembly stations than said at least a first group of assembly stations. 60. The method of claim 46 wherein said at least a second group of like assembly stations are larger-scale assembly stations than said at least a first group of assembly stations. 61. The method of claim 49 wherein said at least a first group of parts are selected from the group consisting of: micron-scale parts, nanometer-scale parts, and molecular-scale parts. 62. A non-biological self replicating manufacturing system comprising: a first surface including at least a first generation of assembly stations thereon, wherein said at least a first generation of assembly stations includes at least one assembly station; and a control system operable to cause said at least a first generation of assembly stations to construct at least a second generation of assembly stations from parts on a second surface, wherein said parts are selected from the group consisting of nanometer-scale parts and molecular-scale parts. 63. The system of claim 62 wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations includes at least one assembly station. 64. The system of claim 62 wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations is identical to said at least a first generation of assembly stations. 65. A non-biological self replicating manufacturing system comprising: a first surface including at least a first generation of assembly stations thereon, wherein said at least a first generation of assembly stations includes at least one assembly station; and a control system operable to cause said at least a first generation of assembly stations to construct at least a second generation of assembly stations from parts on a second surface, wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations is a mirror image of said at least a first generation of assembly stations. 66. The system of claim 62 wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations are smaller-scale assembly stations than said at least a first generation of assembly stations. 67. The system of claim 62 wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations are larger-scale assembly stations than said at least a first generation of assembly stations. 68. The system of claim 62 wherein said parts are prearranged on said second surface. 69. The system of claim 68 wherein said control system is operable to cause said at least a first generation of assembly stations to perform positional assembly to construct said at least a second generation of assembly stations. 70. The system of claim 69 wherein said control system is operable to cause said at least a first generation of assembly stations to construct said at least a second generation of assembly stations without requiring feedback to said control system from said initial generation of assembly stations. 71. A non-biological self replicating manufacturing system comprising: a first surface including at least a first generation of assembly stations thereon, wherein said at least a first generation of assembly stations includes at least one assembly station; and a control system operable to cause said at least a first generation of assembly stations to construct at least a second generation of assembly stations from parts on a second surface; and said control system operable to cause said at least a second generation of assembly stations to assemble at least a third generation of assembly stations from parts included on a third surface. 72. The system of claim 71 wherein said third surface and said first surface are both surfaces on the same substrate. 73. The system of claim 62 wherein each assembly station of said at least a first generation of assembly stations comprises multiple sub-assembly stations. 74. The system of claim 73 wherein a first one of said multiple sub-assembly stations is operable to construct a first sub-assembly station on said second surface, and wherein a second one of said multiple sub-assembly stations is operable to construct a second sub-assembly station on said second surface. 75. A non-biological self replicating manufacturing system comprising: a first surface including at least a first generation of assembly stations thereon, wherein said at least a first generation of assembly stations includes at least one assembly station and wherein each assembly station of said at least a first generation of assembly stations comprises multiple sub-assembly stations; and a control system operable to cause said at least a first generation of assembly stations to construct at least a second generation of assembly stations from parts on a second surface, wherein a first one of said multiple sub-assembly stations is operable to construct a first subassembly station on said second surface, and wherein a second one of said multiple subassembly stations is operable to construct a second sub-assembly station on said second surface, and wherein an assembly station of said at least a second generation of assembly stations comprises said first and second sub-assembly stations on said second surface. 76. The system of claim 71 wherein said parts are selected from the group consisting of: micron-scale parts, nanometer-scale parts, and molecular-scale parts. 77. The system of claim 62 wherein said parts are prearranged on said second surface to enable positional assembly. 78. The system of claim 62 wherein said first and second surfaces are wafers. 79. The system of claim 62 wherein said control system comprises a computer system. 80. The system of claim 62 wherein said control system comprises a microcontroller. 81. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: providing a first surface comprising at least one assembly station thereon; causing said at least one assembly station to construct said at least another assembly station from parts on a second surface, wherein said parts are selected from the group consisting of nanometer-scale parts and molecular-scale parts. 82. The method of claim 81 wherein said parts are prearranged on said second surface. 83. The method of claim 81 wherein said at least another assembly station is a like assembly station. 84. The method of claim 81 wherein said at least another assembly station is an assembly station identical to said at least one assembly station. 85. The method of claim 81 wherein said at least one assembly station comprises at least two sub-assembly stations. 86. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: providing a first surface comprising at least one assembly station thereon, wherein said at least one assembly station comprises at least two sub-assembly stations; and causing said at least one assembly station to construct said at least another assembly station from parts on a second surface, wherein said second surface comprises parts prearranged thereon for constructing at least two sub-assembly stations. 87. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: providing a first surface comprising at least one assembly station thereon, wherein said at least one assembly station comprises at least two sub-assembly stations; and causing said at least one assembly station to construct said at least another assembly station from parts on a second surface, wherein said at least another assembly station comprises at least two sub-assembly stations. 88. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: providing a first surface comprising at least one assembly station thereon, wherein said at least one assembly station comprises at least two sub-assembly stations that are non-like sub-assembly stations; and causing said at least one assembly station to construct said at least another assembly station from parts on a second surface. 89. A method of manufacturing assembly stations comprising the steps of: providing a first surface comprising at least one assembly station thereon, wherein said at least one assembly station comprises at least two sub-assembly stations that are like sub-assembly stations; and causing said at least one assembly station to construct said at least another assembly station from parts on a second surface. 90. The method of claim 86 wherein said parts are selected from the group consisting of: micron-scale parts, nanometer-scale parts, and molecular-scale parts. 91. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 92. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 93. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 94. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 95. The method of claim 28 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 96. The method of claim 33 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 97. The method of claim 34 further comprising the step of: causing said at least one like assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 98. The method of claim 46 further comprising the step of: causing said at least a second group of like assembly stations to construct at least one non-like device. 99. The method of claim 49 further comprising the step of: causing at least one of said at least a second group of like assembly stations and said at least a third group of like assembly stations to construct at least one non-like device. 100. The method of claim 58 further comprising the step of: causing said at least a second group of like assembly stations to construct at least one non-like device. 101. The system of claim 62 wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations are operable to construct at least one non-like device. 102. The system of claim 65 wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations are operable to construct at least one non-like device. 103. The system of claim 71 wherein at least one of said at least a second generation of assembly stations and said at least a third generation of assembly stations is operable to construct at least one non-like device. 104. The system of claim 75 wherein said at least a second generation of assembly stations are operable to construct at least one non-like device. 105. The method of claim 85 further comprising the step of: causing said at least another assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 106. The method of claim 86 further comprising the step of: causing said at least another assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 107. The method of claim 87 further comprising the step of: causing said at least another assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 108. The method of claim 88 further comprising the step of: causing said at least another assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 109. The method of claim 89 further comprising the step of: causing said at least another assembly station to construct at least one non-like device. 