Stucco tower and method for applying ceramic particulates to a ceramic slurry coated pattern involves positioning the ceramic slurry coated pattern in a chamber, discharging ceramic particulates downwardly onto the ceramic slurry coated pattern, and circulating air through air circulation plenums from a lower region of the chamber to an upper region thereof as the ceramic particulates are discharged. An air curtain is provided at an access opening to the chamber.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus, comprising: a chamber, means for discharging particulates downwardly from an upper region to a lower region of said chamber, and an air circulation plenum communicated by a lower opening to said lower region of said chamber and by an upper opening to said upper region of said chamber to circulate air from said lower region to said upper region as said particulates are discharged downwardly in said chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said chamber is defined by a front wall, a rear wall, and first and second side walls interconnecting said front wall and rear wall. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 including a first air circulation plenum adjacent said first side wall and a second air circulation plenum adjacent said second side wall. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said upper opening is disposed below said means for discharging particulates. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 including an access opening to said chamber and an air curtain disposed at said access opening. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said air curtain includes a plurality of air discharge nozzles proximate an upper extent of said access opening for discharging air downwardly. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said nozzles are angled toward a wall having said access opening therein. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 including a collection chamber for the ceramic particulates and means for fluidizing the particulates in the collection chamber. 9. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said means for discharging particulates comprises a hopper. 