A system for aspirating and ejecting microvolume drops of liquid onto porous sites of a substrate wafer is presented. The system includes a microdispenser employing a piezoelectric transducer attached to a glass capillary, a means for priming and aspirating transfer liquid into the microdispenser, for controlling the pressure of the system liquid, and for washing the microdispenser between liquid transfers, and a pressure sensor to measure the system liquid pressure and produce a corresponding electrical signal. The drops are generally in the 10 to 100 micron range and the pores are generally 10 to 10,000 times smaller than the diameter of the drops deposited thereon. The resulting spots are uniform, and only slightly larger in diameter than that of the drops. The drops are ejected from a distance greater than the diameter of the drops, thus avoiding any contact with the dispenser that could damage the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for aspirating and ejecting drops of a transfer liquid onto a site of a wafer, said system comprising: said wafer containing at least one said site, each said site being porous and having pores about 10 to about 10,000 times smaller than the diameter of the drops; an enclosed space for holding a system liquid, a dispensing tube communicating with said enclosed space, said tube having an outlet, said outlet facing said site, said outlet being separated from said site by a distance greater than the diameter of said drops; a means for supplying a system liquid into said tube and for withdrawing from said tube said system liquid to aspirate said transfer liquid into said tube; and constricting means constricting the volume of said tube so as to eject drops of said transfer liquid onto said site, said tube and said constricting means adapted to produce drops in the range of from about 5 to about 500 picoliters. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the entire surface of said wafer is porous. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the wafer is a porous membrane. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the transfer liquid comprises biological or chemical reactants. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said tube and said constricting means is adapted to produce drops having a diameter of from about 10 to about 100 microns. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said constricting means comprises a piezoelectric element. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the distance between said outlet and said site is in the range of from about 0.5 to 2 mm. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said system liquid comprises water. 