A system for applying a thin coat of a material on one side only of a substrate is disclosed together with a process for applying the thin coat. Coatings of less than one thousand angstroms are attainable on a single surface of the substrate by controlling the speed at which a meniscus of a mix containing a predetermined concentration of the coating material travels across the single surface being coated. Various pressure, temperature and humidity controls are implemented in the process and by the apparatus as needed to obtain the desired coating characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of applying a coat of a substance onto one side only of a substrate, comprising the steps of: mixing the substance in a solvent to provide a predetermined concentration of the substance in a solvent mix, placing an amount of the solvent mix in a container so that the solvent mix has an accessible undisturbed free surface, positioning the one side only in contact with and at a predetermined angle to the accessible undisturbed free surface, so that a single meniscus is formed in the solvent mix extending between the undisturbed free surface and the one side only, and separating the one side only and the solvent mix at a separation rate so that the single meniscus traverses the one side only at a rate related to a solvent evaporation rate. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: enclosing the solvent mix and the substrate, and controlling ambient conditions within the enclosure. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of controlling ambient temperature. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of: controlling ambient pressure. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of: controlling ambient humidity. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of: controlling the content of the ambient atmosphere. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: controlling the temperature of the solvent mix. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: controlling the temperature of the substrate. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said meniscus has a wet side adjacent the accessible undisturbed free surface and a drying side adjacent the one side only, a wetted dimension on the one side only trailing the drying side, and wherein the step of separating comprises the step of: imposing a separation rate so that the wetted dimension is substantially constant. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said meniscus has a wet side adjacent the accessible undisturbed free surface and a drying side adjacent the one side only, a wetted dimension on the one side only trailing the drying side, and wherein the step of separating comprises the step of: imposing a separation rate so that the wetted dimension is substantially zero. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said meniscus has a wet side adjacent the accessible undisturbed free surface and a drying side adjacent the one side only, a wetted dimension on the one side only trailing the drying side, and wherein the step of separating comprises the step of: imposing a separation rate so that the wetted dimension undergoes a predetermined change, whereby predetermined variation in the thickness of the thin coat is obtained. 