A method of automatically picking items to fill a purchase order. A purchase order is received and information about the identity and quantity of items ordered in the purchase order is extracted from it. A pick list is created from the extracted information a pick list, and the pick list is associated with a receptacle for receiving picked items. A determination is made whether ordered items are of a first type or a second type. If no item of the second type is ordered, the receptacle is directed to a first location where items of the first type are stored and ordered items stored at the first location are automatically picked and placed in the receptacle. If at least one item of the second type is ordered, the receptacle is first directed to a second location where items of the second type are stored. Items stored at the second location re automatically picked and placed in the receptacle and, if at least one item of the first type is also ordered, the receptacle is next directed to a first location where items of the first type are stored. Ordered items stored at the first location are then automatically picked and placed in the receptacle and the receptacle is directed to a location for further processing. If no item of the first type is also ordered, the receptacle is directed to a location for further processing after items stored at the second location have been picked and placed in the receptacle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of automatically picking items to fill a purchase order, comprising the steps of: providing an automated filling system having a plurality of receptacles for receiving ordered items, a high volume dispenser for rapidly dispensing frequently requested items from a high volume storage area, a low volume pick and place dispenser for dispensing items from a low volume storage area, and a controller for controlling whether the receptacles are conveyed to the high volume dispenser, the low volume dispenser or both, receiving a purchase order, extracting from the purchase order information about the identity and quantity of items ordered in the purchase order, creating from the extracted information a pick list, associating the pick list with a receptacle for receiving picked items, determining whether ordered items are located in the high volume storage area or the low volume storage area, selectably directing the receptacle to at least one of the high volume storage area and the low volume storage area, automatically dispensing ordered items stored at each storage area to which the receptacle is selectably directed and placing them in the receptacle, directing the receptacle to a location for further processing; providing a pickup head at the low storage area which includes a vacuum pickup for picking up individual items to be placed in a receptacle, and a plurality of rotatable fingers for grasping a plurality of items in a single stack; determining when an item in a storage area is at or below a threshold; providing additional inventory of the item that is at or below the threshold; translating a pickup head in the pick and place dispenser to the location of the additional inventory; rotating the fingers for grasping the additional inventory; transferring the additional inventory with the pickup head to a location in the storage area where additional inventory is needed; and releasing the additional inventory from the fingers. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of selectably directing the receptacle involves: determining a route in the automated filling system for conveyance of the receptacle to retrieve ordered items; tracking the location of the receptacle in the automated filling system; and controlling conveyance of the receptacle based at least in part on the location of the receptacle in the automated filling system. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the receptacle is first directed to the high volume storage area, then directed to the low volume storage area. 4. The method according to claim 2 wherein the receptacle is first directed to the low volume storage area, then directed to the high volume storage area. 5. The method according to claim 2 wherein the step of controlling conveyance involves channeling of the receptacle from one conveyor to another. 6. The method according to claim 2 wherein the tracking of the receptacle is provided by automatically reading a bar code label on the receptacle. 7. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of associating items with storage areas based on their frequency of purchase. 8. A method of automatically picking items to fill a purchase order, comprising the steps of providing an automated filling system having a plurality of receptacles for receiving ordered items, a high volume dispenser for rapidly dispensing frequently requested items from a high volume storage area, a low volume pick and place dispenser for dispensing items from a low volume storage area, and a controller for controlling whether the receptacles are conveyed to the high volume dispenser, the low volume dispenser or both, receiving a purchase order, extracting from the purchase order information about the identity and quantity of items ordered in the purchase order, creating from the extracted information a pick list, associating the pick list with a receptacle for receiving picked items, determining whether ordered items are located in the high volume storage area or the low volume storage area, if no item in the low volume storage area is ordered, i. directing the receptacle to the high volume storage area, and ii. automatically dispensing ordered items stored at the high volume storage area into the receptacle, if at least one item in the low volume storage area is ordered, i. first directing the receptacle to the low volume storage area, ii. automatically picking items on the pick list from the items stored in the low volume storage area and placing them in the receptacle, and if at least one item in the high volume area is also ordered, i. next directing the receptacle to the high volume area, ii. automatically dispensing ordered items stored at the high volume area into the receptacle, and iii. directing the receptacle to a location for further processing, if at least one item in the low volume storage area is ordered and no item in the high volume area is also ordered, directing the receptacle to a location for further processing after items from the low volume area have been picked and placed in the receptacle; providing a pickup head at the low storage area which includes a vacuum pickup for picking up individual items to be placed in a receptacle, and a plurality of rotatable fingers for grasping a plurality of items in a single stack; determining when an item in a storage area is at or below a threshold; providing additional inventory of the item that is at or below the threshold; translating a pickup head in the pick and place dispenser to the location of the additional inventory; rotating the fingers for grasping the additional inventory; transferring the additional inventory with the pickup head to a location in the storage area where additional inventory is needed; and releasing the additional inventory from the fingers. 9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the steps of directing the receptacle involve channeling the receptacle from one conveyor to another. 10. The method according to claim 8 further comprising the steps of tracking the location of the receptacle in the automated filling system based on a unique identifier associated with the receptacle; and wherein the steps of directing the receptacle involve are based at least in part on the location of the receptacle in the automated filling system. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein the tracking of the receptacle is provided by automatically reading a bar code label on the receptacle. 12. The method according to claim 8 further comprising the step of associating items with storage areas based on their frequency of purchase. 13. A system for automatically picking items to fill a purchase order, comprising at least one receptacle for receiving items ordered in the purchase order, the receptacle having associated with it unique identifying information; a conveyor for moving the receptacle along a preselected path; a detector along the path for detecting the unique identifying information associated with the receptacle and generating an output signal representative of that information; a system controller which i. receives the detector output signal and information about the identity and quantity of items ordered in the purchase order, ii. correlates the unique identifying information with the information about the identity and quantity of items ordered in the purchase order, and iii. generates commands; a high volume storage area located along a first portion of the path of the conveyor for storing items which are frequently ordered; a low volume storage area located along a second portion of the path of the conveyor for storing items which are less frequently ordered than the items in the high storage area; a director responsive to a command from the controller to direct a receptacle onto the second portion of the path when items located in the low volume storage area are ordered in the purchase order; at least one picking robot at the low volume storage area responsive to a command from the controller to pick items located in the low volume storage area that are ordered in the purchase order and place the items in the receptacle; at least one dispenser at the high volume storage area responsive to a command from the controller to dispense items located in the high volume storage area that are ordered in the purchase order into the receptacle; and wherein the at least one picking robot includes a manipulator a vacuum pickup for picking up individual items to be placed in a receptacle, the vacuum pickup including a contact member for sealingly engaging an item, and a vacuum line for supplying negative pressure to the contact member, and a plurality of rotatable fingers for grasping a plurality of items in a single stack, each finger being extendable for extending downward past the contact member and having feet which, when the fingers are rotated, rotate toward and away from the contact member. 14. A system according to claim 13 wherein the plurality of fingers are attached to the manipulator such that the fingers extend substantially simultaneously. 15. A system according to claim 13 wherein each item in the high volume area includes its own dispenser. 16. A system according to claim 13 wherein the picking robot includes a gantry and wherein the manipulator is movably mounted to the gantry, the gantry permitting the manipulator to move between the stored items and the conveyor, and between the stored items and an inventory replenishment area. 17. A system according to claim 13 wherein the conveyor includes a first portion extending through the high volume storage area and a second portion extending through the low volume storage area. 