The present invention provides an integrated, fully automated, high-throughput system for two-dimensional electrophoresis comprised of gel-making machines, gel processing machines, gel compositions and geometries, gel handling systems, sample preparation systems, software and methods. The system is capable of continuous operation at high-throughput to allow construction of large quantitative data sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-assisted method for isolating one or more selected proteins present in a two-dimensional array prepared by two-dimensional electrophoresis in a loose polyacrylamide gel, the method comprising: (a) imaging the two-dimension array or a replica thereof with a first device to generate a computer-readable output; (b) processing the output in at least one computer to select a protein for isolation; (c) generating machine-readable instructions that direct a second device to isolate the selected protein from the two-dimensional array; and (d) isolating the selected protein with the second device in accordance with the machine-readable instructions by removing a portion of the loose polyacrylamide gel containing the selected protein, wherein the second device is physically separate from the first device. 2. A method for studying proteins separated into an array contained in a loose gel, the method comprising: (a) imaging the array of proteins with a first device; (b) selecting one or more members of the array for removal, and (c) removing those portions of the loose gel that contain the selected members of the array by means of a second device under remote computer control, the second device comprising an excision component capable of performing x and y movements, wherein the second device is physically separate from the first device. 3. A computer-readable medium comprising instructions for causing a computer to perform the following steps: selecting a protein for isolation by processing output generated by a first device upon imaging a two-dimensional gray of proteins present in a loose polyacrylamide gel; and generating machine-readable instructions that direct a second device to isolate the selected protein from the two-dimensional array by removing a portion of the loose polyacrylamide gel containing the selected protein, wherein the second device is physically separate from the first device. 4. A computer comprising a program for performing the following steps: selecting a protein for isolation by processing output generated by a first device upon imaging a two-dimensional array of proteins present in a loose polyacrylamide gel; and generating machine-readable instructions that direct a second device to isolate the selected protein from the two-dimensional ay by removing a portion of the loose polyacrylamide gel contain the selected protein, when the second device is physically separate from the first device. 