A robot device 1 has a sensor 101 for detecting information of a user, a user identification section 120 for identifying one user from a plurality of identifiable users on the basis of the information of the user detected by the sensor 101, and an action schedule section 130, an action instruction execution section 103 and an output section 104 as action control means for manifesting an action corresponding to the one user identified by the user identification section 120.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: detection means for detecting information of a user; identification means for identifying one user from a plurality of identifiable users on the basis of the information of the user detected by the detection means; and action control means for manifesting an action corresponding to the one user identified by the identification means, said action being designated in accordance with a finite probability automation scheme. 2. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein information about a plurality of users is registered in advance and held, and a plurality of pieces of action information are held corresponding to the plurality of users; the identification means identifies one user on the basis of the information of the user registered in advance and the information of the user detected by the detection means; and the action control means manifests an action on the basis of action information corresponding to the one user. 3. The robot as claimed in claim 2, further comprising registration means for registering the information of the user in advance. 4. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the action information is made up of a finite probability automation, which is a transition diagram of a plurality of postures and motions. 5. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a motor is controlled to drive a moving section by the action control means, thus manifesting an action. 6. An action deciding method for a robot comprising the steps of identifying one user from a plurality of identifiable users on the basis of information of the user detected by detection means, and manifesting an action corresponding to the identified one user, said action being designated in accordance with a finite probability automation scheme. 