This invention provides an actuation system for a highly underactuated gripping mechanism with ten degrees of freedom, which requires only two actuators, one for actuating the opening and closing of three fingers and the other for the orientation of two rotatable fingers with synchronization. Underactuation between the fingers is provided by a one-input/three-output differential which is associated with an orientation mechanism so that an orientation-fixed finger is deactivated when the two orientatable fingers are rotated to face each other for a pinch grasp. Each finger is enabled to be self-locked in its closing and opening action when the power is off. This feature is important, especially for the fingers actuated by a differential mechanism for the underactuation between the fingers. In one embodiment of the invention, planetary gearing system is used for the differential. In another embodiments, a Geneva mechanism is used for the orientation transmission, and a fastening interface using an indexing ring is provided to connect an external driving apparatus. A fluid power system is also described in another embodiment of the invention, in which the gripping mechanism is actuated by fluid power and the implementation of the underactuation among the fingers is performed by fluid power.
Claims We claim: 1. An actuation system for a gripping mechanism underactuated between at least three fingers at least two of which are rotatable for orientation, each finger having a finger actuation mechanism to actuate the finger between first and second limit positions in a selective gripping action, the actuation system comprising: a differential mechanism operatively connected to the respective finger actuation mechanisms for receiving one power input and transmitting the one power input into a plurality of power outputs to actuate the respective fingers in a close/open action; a stopping mechanism to controllably prevent motion of at least a third one of the fingers in the close/open action before said at least third one of the fingers reaches one of said limit positions such that two other ones of the fingers can perform a grasp without said at feast third one of the fingers interfering; and an orienting mechanism operatively connected to the respective rotatable fingers for receiving one rotation input and transmitting the one input into at least two rotation outputs to rotate the respective at least two rotatable fingers in a finger orientation. 2. An actuation system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the stopping mechanism is responsive to a rotational position of the orienting mechanism to stop the close/open action of said at least third one of the fingers. 3. An actuation system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the number of the fingers is three and each of the fingers is self-locked in the closed/open action when power for actuating the closing and opening of the fingers is off, whereby said fingers can perform a three-finger grasp when the rotatable fingers are rotated to be facing towards a common center, and the third finger is stopped when the two rotatable fingers are rotated to face each other so that the rotatable fingers may perform a two finger grasps without the third finger interfering. 4. An actuation system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the two rotatable fingers are self-locked in predetermined orientations when orienting motion is not requested. 5. An actuation system as claimed in claim 3 wherein the differential mechanism comprises three fluid powered piston cylinders each connected to a driving bar member, each said driving bar member being connected to one of the respective finger actuation mechanisms, each said piston cylinder receiving pressurized fluids from one pressurized fluid source to drive the respective fingers in the close/open action through said driving bar members. 6. An actuation system as claimed in claim 5 wherein the differential mechanism comprises three check valves, each being connected between one of the piston cylinders and the pressurized fluid source, and active only when power to open the fingers is off. 7. An actuation system as claimed in claim 6 wherein the differential mechanism includes a valve connected to one of the piston cylinders which actuates the third one of the fingers to stop a fluid supply from the fluid source to said one of the piston cylinders to deactuate the closing action of the third finger when the two rotatable fingers are oriented to face each other. 8. An actuation system as claimed in claim 5 wherein each rotating axis of the two rotatable fingers is aligned with a main axis of a corresponding piston cylinder. 9. An actuation system as claimed in claim 3 comprising a rotation fluid actuator connected to the orienting mechanism to drive the two rotatable fingers in the orientation motion. 10. An actuation system as claimed in claim 2 comprising a frame including a palm defining a palm plane of the gripping mechanism, each of the three fingers being mounted to the frame and the two thereof being rotatable about an axis orthogonal to the palm plane. 11. An actuation system as claimed in claim 10 wherein the differential mechanism is mounted to the frame and comprises a plurality of planetary gear trains to transmit one torque input into three equal torque outputs. 12. An actuation system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the differential mechanism comprises three rotation/translation transmission means for transmitting the respective outputs in rotation from the differential mechanism to a translation of three driving bar members which are connected to the respective finger actuation mechanism to drive the fingers in the close/open action. 13. An actuation system as claimed in claim 12 wherein the orienting mechanism comprises a self-lock Geneva mechanism for rotating the two rotatable fingers to predetermined orientations. 14. An actuation system as claimed in claim 13 further comprising a fastening interface operatively mounted to the frame and adapted to receive an external power input to the actuation system to transmit the power input selectively to the differential mechanism or the orienting mechanism. 15. An actuation system as claimed in claim 13 further comprising an actuator and a switching mechanism, both being mounted to the frame, the switching mechanism being connected to the actuator, and selectively connecting the differential mechanism or the orienting means for selective power input. 16. An actuation system as claimed in claim 12 further comprising a first motor and a second motor mounted to the frame, the first motor being operatively connected to the differential mechanism to drive the respective fingers in the close/open action, and the second motor being operatively connected to the orienting mechanism to drive the at least two rotatable fingers in the orientation motion. 17. An actuation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the stopping mechanism controllably prevents motion of said at least third one of the fingers in the close/open action only when said two other ones of the fingers are oriented to face each other, whereby said fingers can perform an all finger grasp when the rotatable fingers do not face each other. 18. An actuation system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the orienting mechanism moves the stopping mechanism into a stopping engagement with said at least third one of the fingers to prevent motion of said at least third one of the fingers before said at least third one of the fingers reaches one of said limit positions. 19. An actuation system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an actuator and a switching mechanism, the switching mechanism being connected to the actuator, and selectively connecting the differential mechanism or the orienting means for elective power input. 20. An actuation system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the differential mechanism transmits the one power input into at least three independent power outputs to actuate the respective fingers in the close/open action. 21. An actuation system as claimed in claim 20 wherein the number of the plurality of fingers is three and the one power input is transmitted into three independent inputs such that a blocking of at least one of the fingers does not stop the close/open action of the other ones of the fingers. 22. An actuation system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the number of fingers is three, said two other ones of the fingers are said at least two rotatable fingers, and said orienting mechanism causes said two other fingers to rotate in opposite directions when receiving the one rotation input, such that said three fingers can be oriented to perform any one of a two-finger grasp when said at least third one of the fingers is stopped and a three-finger grasp. 23. An actuation system for a gripping mechanism underactuated between at least three fingers at least two of which are rotatable for orientation, each finger having a finger actuation mechanism to actuate the finger in a selective gripping action, the actuation system comprising: a differential mechanism operatively connected to the respective finger actuation mechanisms for receiving one power input and transmitting the one power input into at least three independent power outputs to actuate the respective fingers in a close/open action; and an orienting mechanism operatively connected to the respective rotatable fingers for receiving one rotation input and transmitting the one input into at least two rotation outputs to rotate the respective at least two rotatable fingers in a finger orientation. 24. An actuation system as claimed in claim 23 wherein the number of the plurality of fingers is three and the one power input is transmitted into three independent inputs such that a blocking of at least one of the fingers does not stop the close/open action of the other ones of the fingers. 25. An actuation system as claimed in claim 23 wherein a stopping mechanism to deactivate at least a third one of the fingers in the close/open action when desired. 26. An actuation system as claimed in claim 23 wherein the stopping mechanism is associated with the orienting mechanism to stop the close/open action of the third one of the fingers only when the rotatable fingers are oriented to face each other, whereby said fingers can perform an all finger grasp when the rotatable fingers are rotated to be facing in a first direction, and the third finger is stopped when the rotatable fingers are rotated to face each other so that the rotatable fingers may perform a grasp without the third finger interfering. 27. An actuation system as claimed in claim 26 wherein the number of the fingers is three and each of the fingers is self-locked in the closed/open action when power for actuating the dosing and opening of the fingers is off, whereby said fingers can perform a three-finger grasp when the rotatable fingers are rotated to be facing towards a common center, and the third finger is stopped when the two rotatable fingers are rotated to face each other so that the rotatable fingers may perform a two finger grasp without the third finger interfering. 28. An actuation system as claimed in claim 27 wherein the two rotatable fingers are self-locked in predetermined orientations when orienting motion is not requested. 29. An actuation system as claimed in claim 27 wherein the differential mechanism comprises three fluid powered piston cylinders connected to the driving bar members respectively and receiving pressurized fluids from one pressurized fluid source to drive the respective fingers in the close/open action. 30. An actuation system as claimed in claim 29 wherein the differential mechanism comprises three check valves, each being connected between one of the piston cylinders and the pressurized fluid source, and active only when power to open the fingers is off. 31. An actuation system as claimed in claim 30 wherein the differential mechanism includes a valve connected to the piston cylinder which actuates the third one of the fingers to stop the fluid supply to the piston cylinder to deactuate the closing action of the third finger when the two rotatable fingers are oriented to face each other. 32. An actuation system as claimed in claim 29 wherein each rotating axis of the two rotatable fingers is aligned with a main axis of a corresponding piston cylinder. 33. An actuation system as claimed in claim 27 comprising a rotation fluid actuator connected to the orienting mechanism to drive the two rotatable fingers in the orientation motion. 34. An actuation system as claimed in claim 26 comprising a frame including a palm defining a palm plane of the gripping mechanism, each of the three fingers being mounted to the frame and the two thereof being rotatable about an axis orthogonal to the palm plane. 35. An actuation system as claimed in claim 34 wherein the differential mechanism is mounted to the frame and comprises a plurality of planetary gear trains to transmit one torque input into three equal torque outputs. 36. An actuation system as claimed in claim 35 wherein the differential mechanism comprises three rotation/translation transmission means for transmitting the respective outputs in rotation from the differential mechanism to a translation of three driving bar members which are connected to the respective finger actuation mechanisms to drive the fingers in the close/open action. 37. An actuation system as claimed in claim 36 wherein the orienting mechanism comprises a self-lock Geneva mechanism for rotating the two rotatable fingers to predetermined orientations. 38. An actuation system as claimed in claim 37 further comprising a fastening interface operatively mounted to the frame and adapted to receive an external power input to the actuation system to transmit the power input selectively to the differential mechanism or the orienting mechanism. 39. An actuation system as claimed in claim 37 further comprising an actuator and a switching mechanism, both being mounted to the frame, the switching mechanism being connected to the actuator, and selectively connecting the differential mechanism or the orienting means for selective power input. 40. An actuation system as claimed in claim 36 further comprising a first motor and a second motor mounted to the frame, the first motor being operatively connected to the differential mechanism to drive the respective fingers in the close/open action, and the second motor being operatively connected to the orienting mechanism to drive the at least two rotatable fingers in the orientation motion. 41. An actuation system as claimed in claim 23, further comprising an actuator and a switching mechanism, the switching mechanism being connected to the actuator, and selectively connecting the differential mechanism or the orienting means for selective power input. 