Provided is a method using a dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a charged grain delivery apparatus for directing charged grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate at the locations of the collection zones; and an optical detection device for quantifying the amount of grains deposited.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: providing an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones; placing a substrate on one or more of the collection zones; directing charged grains towards the substrate; collecting sensor input data at an electronic processor, including input data from one or more deposition sensors placed on or adjacent to the electrostatic chuck for measuring the amount of grains deposited at the one or more deposition sensors; operating the electronic processor to respond to data from the one or more deposition sensors by adjusting, as indicated by the data, current deposition parameters comprising one or more of (a) flux of grains through an apparatus directing the grains and (b) voltages applied at one or more collection zones to attract grains; electrostatically depositing the gains on the substrate at the locations of the collection zones; detecting, after the depositing step, the amount of grains deposited at locations corresponding to the locations of the collection zones; and sending the deposition data to the electronic processor, which uses the deposition data to adjust deposition parameters for a subsequent iteration of the method. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising collecting, at the electronic processor, sensor inputs measuring the flux of grains directed in the grain directing step. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting after the deposition step is done by diffuse reflectance. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting after the deposition step is done by optical profilometry. 5. A method for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: providing an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, which electrostatic chuck is mounted on, and electrically connected to, a movable receiver comprising a voltage board comprising voltage converters for amplifying to higher voltages a voltage supplied by an external power source, placing a substrate on one or more of the collection zones; directing charged grains towards the substrate; applying, via the voltage board, the higher voltages to the electrostatic chuck to create grain-attracting fields at the collection zones, such that the higher voltages are localized in the electrostatic chuck where the higher voltages are needed; and electrostatically depositing the grains on the substrate at the locations of one or more of the collection zones. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: operating an electric processor for controlling depositions, sending operating signals from the electronic processor to the movable receiver, which receiver further comprises an addressing board that assigns (a) locations on the electrostatic chuck receiving a voltage or voltage adjustment and (b) amplitudes of the voltages or voltage adjustments; and sending the assigned location and amplitude information to appropriate channels of the voltage board. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the higher voltages are from 250V to 3,000V. 8. A method for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: providing an electrostatic chuck having two or more separate collection zones; placing a substrate on one or more of the two or more collection zones; directing charged grains towards the substrate by: delivering grains towards the electrostatic chuck through a tube; feeding grains towards the tube; and operating one or more of: a gas driven Venturi having a Venturi well to pull the inserted grains and propel them, with the gas, through the tube, or a gas source directing gas towards the inserted in to separate grains and providing gas flow for propelling grains through the tube; and selectively electrostatically depositing the grains on the substrate at the locations of one or more of the collection zones. 9. A method of claim 8, wherein the grains pass from the feeding process, through the Venturi well, and into the tube in substantially a straight line. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the feeding process comprises vibration for enhancing the fluidity of the grains. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the feeding process comprises operating an auger. 12. The method of claim 8, comprising conducting the feeding with a gear wheel. 13. The method of claim 8, comprising inductively charging the powder as it passes through at least a portion of the tube. 14. A method for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: providing an electrostatic chuck having two or more separate collection zones; placing a substrate on one or more of the two or more collection zones; delivering grains through a tube towards the electrostatic chuck; applying charge to the grains by tribocharging induced by contacts between the grains and the tube or by induction charging caused by a potential applied to the tube; and selectively electrostatically depositing the grains on the substrate at locations of one or more of the collection zones. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: discharging charge accumulations in the tube via a grounded conductive layer on the tube. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: monitoring the amount of charge discharged from the tube; and operating an electronic processor that utilizes data from the monitoring as an indicator of the amount of grains passing through the tube to adjust the grain deposition process. 17. The method of claim 14, comprising applying charge to the grains by by induction charging caused by a potential applied to the tube. 18. The method of any one of claims 1, 2, 5-11, or 14-16, wherein the deposited grains comprise medicament. 