Methods for reducing contamination of semiconductor substrates after processing are provided. The methods include heating the processed substrate to remove adsorbed chemical species from the substrate surface by thermal desorption. Thermal desorption can be performed either in-situ or ex-situ. The substrate can be heated by convection, conduction, and/or radiant heating. The substrate can also be heated by treating the surface of the processed substrate with an inert plasma during which treatment ions in the plasma bombard the substrate surface raising the temperature thereof. Thermal desorption can also be performed ex-situ by applying thermal energy to the substrate during transport of the substrate from the processing chamber and/or by transporting the substrate to a transport module (e.g., a load lock) or to a second processing chamber for heating. Thermal desorption during transport can be enhanced by purging an inert gas over the substrate surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of reducing surface contamination of a semiconductor substrate comprising steps of: mounting the substrate on a substrate support in a first processing chamber; processing the substrate; and heating the substrate; wherein, as a result of processing, chemical species in the chamber are adsorbed onto the substrate surface and, wherein, during the heating step, the temperature of the substrate is increased such that adsorbed chemical species are removed from the substrate surface by thermal desorption. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating step is performed in-situ or ex-situ. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating step comprises treating the substrate with an inert plasma, convection heating, conduction heating, radiant heating or combinations thereof. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating step comprises treating the substrate with an inert plasma in-situ in the first processing chamber. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising a step of RF biasing the substrate during the treatment step. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising steps of: transporting the substrate after the processing step to a second processing chamber; and mounting the substrate on a second substrate support in the second processing chamber; wherein the heating step comprises heating the substrate in the second processing chamber. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the heating step comprises treating the substrate with an inert plasma in the second processing chamber. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the second processing chamber includes a lifter mechanism adapted to lift the substrate off of the second substrate support, the method further comprising raising the lifter mechanism to an upper position to lift the substrate off of the second substrate support prior to or during the heating step. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising a step of RF biasing the substrate during the treatment step. 10. A method of reducing surface contamination of a semiconductor substrate comprising steps of: mounting the substrate on a substrate support in a first processing chamber; processing the substrate; and heating the substrate, the heating comprising transporting the substrate out of the first processing chamber using a substrate transport mechanism, and applying thermal energy to the substrate and purging an inert gas over the surface of the substrate during the transporting; wherein, as a result of processing, chemical species in the chamber are adsorbed onto the substrate surface and, wherein, during the heating step, the temperature of the substrate is increased such that adsorbed chemical species are removed from the substrate surface by thermal desorption. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the inert gas is heated and thermal energy is applied to the substrate by forced convection during the purging step. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the substrate transport mechanism is heated and thermal energy is applied to the substrate by conduction from the substrate transport mechanism. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein radiant energy is applied to the substrate during the transport step. 14. A method of reducing surface contamination of a semiconductor substrate, comprising: mounting a semiconductor substrate including a photoresist layer on a substrate support in a processing chamber; processing the substrate; and heating the substrate; wherein, as a result of processing, chemical species in the chamber are adsorbed onto the substrate and, wherein, during the heating, the temperature of the substrate is increased such that adsorbed chemical species are removed from the photoresist layer by thermal desorption. 15. A method of reducing surface contamination of a semiconductor substrate, comprising: mounting the substrate on a substrate support in a processing chamber; processing the substrate, the processing including supplying a heat transfer gas between the substrate and substrate support; shutting off the supply of the heat transfer gas; and then heating the substrate, the heating including treating the substrate with an inert plasma, convection heating, radiant heating or combinations thereof; wherein, as a result of processing, chemical species in the chamber are adsorbed onto the substrate surface and, wherein, during the heating, the temperature of the substrate is increased such that adsorbed chemical species are removed from the substrate surface by thermal desorption. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing step comprises etching or deposition. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating step comprises treating the substrate with an inert plasma and wherein a plasma sheath forms between the substrate and the plasma during the treating step and the average energy gained by ions in the plasma as they are accelerated through the plasma sheath is about 100 volts or less. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the average energy gained by ions in the plasma as they are accelerated through the plasma sheath during the treating step is about 50 volts or less. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the first processing chamber includes a lifter mechanism adapted to lift the substrate off of the substrate support, the method further comprising raising the lifter mechanism to an upper position to lift the substrate off of the substrate support prior to or during the heating step. 20. A method of reducing surface contamination of a semiconductor substrate, comprising: mounting the substrate on a substrate support in a processing chamber; processing the substrate; and heating the substrate, the heating comprising treating the substrate with an inert plasma that does not sputter the substrate surface; wherein, as a result of processing, chemical species in the chamber are adsorbed onto the substrate surface and, wherein, during the heating, the temperature of the substrate is increased such that adsorbed chemical species are removed from the substrate surface by thermal desorption. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate includes a gate conductor layer disposed over a gate dielectric layer and the processing step comprises plasma etching through the gate electrode layer to expose at least a portion of the gate dielectric layer. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the gate conductor layer is a polysilicon layer and the gate dielectric layer is an oxide layer, the processing step comprising etching through the polysilicon layer to expose at least a portion of the gate oxide layer. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating step comprises treating the substrate with an inert plasma and wherein the treating step is carried out for 20 seconds or less. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the treating step is carried out for 12 seconds or less. 25. A method of reducing surface contamination of a semiconductor substrate, comprising: mounting the substrate on a substrate support in a processing chamber; processing the substrate; and heating the substrate, the heating being performed until an endpoint determined by a device measuring the concentration of the desorbed species is reached; wherein, as a result of processing, chemical species in the chamber are adsorbed onto the substrate surface and, wherein, during the heating, the temperature of the substrate is increased such that adsorbed chemical species are removed from the substrate surface by thermal desorption. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the adsorbed chemical species comprise one or more halogens. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating step raises the temperature of the substrate to a temperature of from 80 to 300.degree. C. 28. The method of claim 10, further comprising: supporting the substrate on a support surface of a substrate support member of the substrate transport mechanism during transport; applying thermal energy to the substrate supported on the support surface with one or more heaters of the substrate transport mechanism; and purging an inert gas over the surface of the substrate supported on the support surface with a gas supply of the substrate transport mechanism. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more heaters are resistance heaters mounted in the substrate transport mechanism. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the inert gas supply purges a heated inert gas over the surface of the substrate supported on the support surface. 31. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more heaters are radiant heaters mounted on the substrate transport mechanism. 