An apparatus for riveting shell components to form a barrel-shaped structure such as an aircraft fuselage includes an outer part and an inner part that operate coordinated with each other under computer control. The outer apparatus part includes a riveting machine system movably carried on an annular machine guide that is supported on a stand that is movable in a length-wise X-direction. The inner apparatus part includes a multi-axis riveting robot mounted on a mounting frame that is movable along the X-direction. Instead of moving the inner and outer apparatus parts in the X-direction, it is alternatively possible to move the fuselage while keeping the apparatus parts stationary. A computer control unit provides control signals to achieve a coordinated and concurrent positioning of the inner and outer apparatus parts, and to carry out a coordinated sequence of riveting steps. Rivets can be automatically fastened even at difficult to access locations, while avoiding structural obstacles inside the aircraft fuselage. The apparatus parts are supported independently of the fuselage on the floor of the assembly hall.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A joining apparatus for joining together large format surface area workpieces along longitudinal joints extending parallel to an X-axis and orbital joints extending orbitally around said X-axis to form a manufactured product including a barrel-shaped structure, said apparatus comprising: i) an outer apparatus part comprising an outer support arrangement, a ring-shaped machine guide arrangement, and a joining machine system; wherein said outer support arrangement is supported on an assembly area floor independent of the manufactured product, and at least said outer support arrangement or the manufactured product is supported movably relative to each other to enable relative motion therebetween in a longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis; wherein said ring-shaped machine guide arrangement is supported by said outer support arrangement independently of and without being supported on the manufactured product, and is dimensioned, configured and adapted to extend around an outer perimeter of the barrel-shaped structure in an orbital direction; and wherein said joining machine system includes at least a first joining tool and is movably arranged on said machine guide arrangement so as to be movable therealong in said orbital direction, wherein said first joining tool can be moved selectively and sequentially to plural joint locations on the outer perimeter of the barrel-shaped structure by moving said joining machine system along said machine guide arrangement in said orbital direction and moving at least one of said outer support arrangement and the manufactured product relative to each other in said longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis; ii ) an inner apparatus part comprising an inner support arrangement, a mounting frame, a multi-axis movable robot, and a tool head; wherein said inter support arrangement is supported on said assembly area floor independent of the manufactured product; wherein said mounting frame is supported by said inner support arrangement independently of and without being supported on the manufactured product, and is movable in said longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis on said inner support arrangement; wherein said multi-axis movable robot is mounted on and supported by said mounting frame and adapted to be moved into a space within the barrel-shaped structure; and wherein said tool head includes at least one second joining tool mounted on and supported by said robot, wherein said second joining tool can be moved selectively and sequentially to said plural joint locations on an internal surface of the barrel-shaped structure by moving said mounting frame in said longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis and by moving said robot to move said tool head at least in said orbital direction relative to said mounting frame; and iii) at least one control unit respectively including a computer, which is connected to said inner apparatus part and to said outer apparatus part, and adapted to provide to said inner apparatus part and to said outer apparatus part control signals generated by said computer to control and coordinate moving of said inner apparatus part and said outer apparatus part sequentially to said plural joint locations and to control and coordinate operating steps of said first and second joining tools to form joint connections at said joint locations. 2. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said joining machine system is a riveting machine system, said at least one first joining tool is at least one first riveting tool, said at least one second joining tool is at least one second riveting tool, said joint locations are rivet locations and said joint connections are rivet connections. 3. The joining apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said at least one first riveting tool includes all tools necessary for boring a rivet hole, supplying and inserting a rivet blank into the rivet hole, and carrying out a rivet fastening of the rivet blank at a respective one of said rivet locations. 4. The joining apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said at least one second riveting tool comprises a counterholding tool. 5. The joining apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said at least one second riveting tool comprises a rivet head closing tool. 6. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said at least one control unit comprises two control units respectively including two of said computers, said two control units are connected to each other, a first one of said two control units is connected to said outer apparatus part, and a second one of said two control units is connected to said inner apparatus part. 7. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said inner support arrangement of said inner apparatus part comprises a support arm stand having a support arm guide, and said mounting frame of said inner apparatus part comprises a support arm that extends horizontally in said longitudinal direction and that is horizontally movably supported by said support arm guide so as to be movable linearly in said longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis in said support arm guide, and wherein said robot is mounted on a free end of said support arm. 8. The joining apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said support arm is rotatable in said orbital direction about said X-axis in said support arm guide. 9. The joining apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said support arm comprises a main arm segment and an end arm segment that includes said free end of said support arm and that is rotatably connected to said main arm segment so as to be rotatable in said orbital direction about said X-axis. 10. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said assembly area floor comprises a supporting floor and a guide rail extending in said longitudinal direction parallel to said X-direction and mounted on or in said supporting floor, and said inner support arrangement comprises a movable support stand that is movably mounted on said guide rail so as to be movable therealong in said longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis. 11. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said inner support arrangement comprises a stationary support stand that is stationarily supported on said assembly area floor. 12. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said assembly area floor comprises a supporting, floor and a rail system extending parallel to said X-axis and mounted on or in said supporting floor, and said outer support arrangement comprises a movable support frame that carries said ring-shaped machine guide arrangement and that is movably arranged on said rail system to be movable therealong in said longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis. 13. The joining apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said rail system, said ring-shaped machine guide arrangement and said movable support frame do not contact the manufactured product. 14. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said outer support arrangement comprises a stationary support frame that is stationarily supported on said assembly area floor. 15. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising stationary support stands that each have an adjustable height, are respectively stationarily arranged on said assembly area floor, and are adapted to adjustably support the manufactured product. 16. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a mobile pallet arrangement including a mobile pallet movably arranged on said assembly area floor, and adjustable supports that each have an adjustable height, that are arranged on said pallet, and that are adapted to adjustably support the manufactured product. 17. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said X-axis is perpendicular to a plane along which said ring-shaped machine guide arrangement extends, and said orbital direction extends along said plane. 18. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said machine guide arrangement has a circular shape adapted to entirely encircle the perimeter of the barrel-shaped structure. 19. The joining apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said machine guide arrangement has an oval shape adapted to extend entirely around the perimeter of the barrel-shaped structure. 20. A riveting apparatus for riveting together large format surface area workpieces along longitudinal joints extending parallel to an X-axis and orbital joints extending orbitally around said X-axis, to form a manufactured product including a barrel-shaped structure, said apparatus comprising: an outer riveting tool located outside of the barrel-shaped structure; outer tool support means for supporting said outer riveting tool on an assembly area floor and for moving said outer riveting tool in an orbital direction extending orbitally around said X-axis, without supporting said outer riveting tool and said outer tool support means on the manufactured product; product support means for adjustably supporting the manufactured product relative to said assembly area floor; relative movement means for moving at least one of said outer tool support means and said product support means relative to each other and relative to said assembly area floor; an inner riveting tool located inside of the barrel-shaped structure; and inner tool support means for supporting said inner riveting tool on said assembly area floor, for reaching said inner riveting tool into the barrel-shaped structure and for moving said inner riveting tool in a longitudinal direction parallel to said X-axis and in an orbital direction extending orbitally around said X-axis, without supporting said inner riveting tool and said inner tool support means on the manufactured product. 21. The riveting apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said relative movement means comprise movable pallets that are movably arranged on said assembly area floor and that carry said product support means. 22. The riveting apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said relative movement means comprise at least one rail on said assembly area floor, along which said outer tool support means is movably arranged. 23. A method of using said riveting apparatus according to claim 20 for joining together shell components as said large format surface area workpieces to fabricate an aircraft fuselage as said manufactured product, comprising the following steps: a) providing a fabricated portion of an aircraft fuselage and supporting said fabricated portion on an assembly area floor using said product support means; b) supporting said outer riveting tool relative to said assembly area floor using said outer tool support means, and supporting said inner riveting tool relative to said assembly area floor using said inner tool support means; c) positioning at least two fuselage section shells to adjoin and align with an end of said fabricated portion along a transverse joint therebetween; d) moving said outer and inner riveting tools orbitally around said fabricated portion, while using said outer and inner riveting tools to rivet said fuselage section shells to said end of said fabricated portion along said transverse joint therebetween; e) after said step d), moving at least one of said fabricated portion and said outer and inner riveting tools relative to each other, so as to relatively move said outer and inner riveting tools in a longitudinal direction along a respective longitudinal joint between said at least two fuselage section shells, while using said outer and inner riveting tools to rivet said at least two fuselage section shells to each other along said longitudinal joint; wherein a result of said steps d) and e) is that said at least two fuselage section shells become a further part of said fabricated portion. 24. The method according to claim 23, further comprising successively repeating successive cycles of said steps c), d) and e). 25. The method according to claim 23, wherein said step e) comprises moving said fabricated portion in said longitudinal direction relative to said assembly area floor and relative to said outer and inner riveting tools. 26. The method according to claim 23, wherein said step e) comprises moving said outer and inner riveting tools in said longitudinal direction relative to said assembly area floor and relative to said fabricated portion. 27. The method according to claim 23, wherein all of said steps are carried out while supporting said outer and inner riveting tools relative to said assembly area floor and entirely independently of said fabricated portion. 