Systems for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite products. Minimum contact eyelets reduce friction in the supply system for string reinforcing materials.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite molding, comprising: a first cell including a first mold member for making a preform; a first air supply system for supplying air to said first mold member; a robotic member for supplying chopped reinforcing materials to at least said first mold member; and a material supply system for providing string reinforcing materials to said robotic member; said supply system comprising a plurality of eyelet members for guiding said string reinforcing materials to said robotic member; at least one of said eyelet members comprising an annular member having a passageway therein for passage therethrough of at least a portion of said string reinforcing materials, said passageway having an enlarged entrance opening and enlarged exit opening. 2. The system as described in claim 1 further comprising at least one tubular member positioned between at least two adjacent eyelet members. 3. The system as described in claim 1 wherein two separate pluralities of eyelet members are provided for guiding said string reinforcing materials through two separate curved path portions. 4. The system as recited in claim 1 further comprising a second cell including a second mold member and a second air supply system for supplying air to said second mold member. 5. The system as recited in claim 4 wherein said robotic member supplies chopped reinforcing materials to both of said first and second mold members. 6. The system as recited in claim 1 further comprising a means for programming said robotic member in order to supply reinforcing materials to said first and second mold members in accordance with prespecified routines, said means for programming comprising software for programming said robotic member offline from said first and second mold members. 7. The system as recited in claim 6 wherein said software comprises at least a ROBCAD system. 8. A system for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite molding, comprising: a first mold member for making a preform; a first air supply system for supplying air to said first mold member; a robotic member for supplying chopped reinforcing materials to at least said first mold member; and a material supply system for providing string reinforcing materials to said robotic member; said supply system comprising first and second plurality of eyelet members positioned separate from but adjacent to said robotic member for guiding said string reinforcing materials to said robotic member; said first plurality of eyelet members being arranged in a first curved configuration with a plurality of individual tubular members positioned between and connecting together said first plurality of eyelet members; and said second plurality of eyelet members being arranged in a second curved configuration with a plurality of individual tubular members positioned between and connecting together said second plurality of eyelet members. 9. The system as recited in claim 8 further comprising a second mold member and a second air supply member, said second air supply member supplying air to said second mold member. 10. The system as recited in claim 9 wherein said robotic member supplies chopped reinforcing materials to both of said first and second mold members. 11. The system as recited in claim 8 further comprising a tensioning weight member positioned between said first and second plurality of eyelet members and supplying tension on-said string reinforcing materials. 12. The system as recited in claim 8 wherein said first and second plurality of eyelet members each comprise annular members with passageways therein, said passageways having enlarged entrance and exit orifices. 13. A system for the manufacture of reinforcing preforms for structural composite molding, comprising: a first mold member for making a preform; a first air supply system for supplying air to said first mold member; a robotic member for supplying chopped reinforcing materials to at least said first mold member; and a material supply system for providing string reinforcing materials to said robotic member; said supply system comprising a plurality of eyelet members for guiding said string reinforcing materials to said robotic member; said eyelet members being positioned separate from but adjacent to said robotic member, and each of said eyelet members comprising an annular member with, a passageway therethrough, said passageways having enlarged entrance and exit orifices. 14. The system as recited in claim 13 further comprising a second mold member and a second air supply member, said second air supply member supplying air to said second mold member. 15. The system as recited in claim 13 wherein said eyelet members comprise a first set of eyelets arranged in a first curved configuration and a separate second set of eyelets arranged in a second curved configuration. 16. The system as recited in claim 15 further comprising a tensioning weight member positioned between said first and second sets of eyelets and supplying tension on said string reinforcing materials. 17. The system as recited in claim 13 further comprising a plurality of individual tubular members positioned between and connecting together said eyelet members. 