A user of a virtual object or computer model uses a haptic interface device in the real world to manipulate a virtual tool in a virtual environment to interact and modify the virtual object. The user uses the virtual tool in a sculpting mode to modify the shape of the virtual object by adding, removing, or modifying the material of the object. The user feels an interaction force from the virtual tool as it interacts with and modifies the virtual object. The designer can set geometric constraints, such as a constraint point, constraint line, or constraint surface, to limit or guide the movement of the virtual tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for modifying a voxel-based virtual object in a haptic virtual environment, comprising: determining a virtual tool comprising a plurality of discrete points for use by the user in the haptic virtual environment; selecting a modification mode that modifies a voxel value representative of the voxel-based virtual object; sensing a location of a user in real space; determining locations of the plurality of discrete points of the virtual tool relative to a location of the voxel-based virtual object; calculating an interaction force between the virtual tool and the voxel-based virtual object based on the locations of the plurality of discrete points of the virtual tool and the location of the voxel-based virtual object; producing a modified voxel-based virtual object by modifying the voxel-based virtual object based on the modification mode, the locations of the plurality of discrete points of the virtual tool, and the location of the voxel-based virtual object; and outputting the modified voxel-based virtual object. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of determining a virtual surface for the voxel-based virtual object; and determining a position and an orientation of the virtual tool by determining the locations of the plurality of discrete points relative to the virtual surface of the voxel-based virtual object. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of determining the virtual surface comprises determining a virtual isosurface for the voxel-based virtual object. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the voxel-based virtual object is a volumetric representation. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the volumetric representation comprises voxels comprising density values. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of selecting a modification mode comprises selecting at least one of a material removal mode, a material addition mode, a smoothing mode, a mirroring mode, and a 3-D sketch mode. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining at least one virtual constraint for the movement of the virtual tool. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of determining at least one virtual constraint for the movement of the virtual tool comprises determining at least one of a point, curve and surface constraint for the movement of the virtual tool. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of exporting the modified voxel-based virtual object. 10. A system for modifying a voxel-based virtual object by a user in a haptic virtual environment, the system comprising: a virtual tool comprising a plurality of discrete points for use by the user in the haptic virtual environment, wherein the user selects a modification mode that modifies a voxel value representative of the voxel-based virtual object; a haptic interface device, wherein the haptic interface device senses a location of the user in real space; and a modeling application in communication with the haptic interface device, the voxel-based virtual object, and the virtual tool, wherein the modeling application determines locations of the plurality of discrete points of the virtual tool relative to a location of the voxel-based virtual object; calculates an interaction force between the virtual tool and the voxel-based virtual object based on the locations of the plurality of discrete points of the virtual tool and the location of the voxel-based virtual object; produces a modified voxel-based virtual object by modifying the voxel-based virtual object based on the modification mode, the locations of the plurality of discrete points of the virtual tool, and the location of the voxel-based virtual object; and outputs the modified voxel-based virtual object. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising the voxel-based virtual object comprising a virtual surface; and the virtual tool comprising a position and an orientation, wherein the modeling application determines the position of the virtual tool and the orientation of the virtual tool by determining the locations of the plurality of discrete points relative to the virtual surface of the voxel-based virtual object. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the virtual surface of the voxel-based virtual object is a virtual isosurface. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the voxel-based virtual object is a volumetric representation. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the volumetric representation comprises voxels comprising density values. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein the modification mode is a selected one of a material removal mode, a material addition mode, a smoothing mode, a mirroring mode, and a 3-D sketch mode. 16. The system of claim 10, wherein the user determines at least one virtual constraint for a movement of the virtual tool. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one virtual constraint for the movement of the virtual tool is at least one of a point, curve and surface constraint. 18. The system of claim 10, wherein the modeling application exports the modified voxel-based virtual object. 19. A method for interfacing with a voxel-based virtual object in a haptic virtual environment, comprising: generating a voxel-based virtual object comprising a virtual surface in the haptic virtual environment; setting a constraint geometry in the haptic virtual environment; determining a virtual tool for use by the user in the haptic virtual environment; sensing a location of a user in real space; determining a haptic interface location in the haptic virtual environment in response to the location of the user in real space; determining a position of the virtual tool in the haptic virtual environment in comparison to the haptic interface location and the location of the virtual surface and the constraint geometry; constraining an action of the virtual tool based on (i) the constraint geometry, (ii) the virtual surface, (iii) the position of the virtual tool, and (iv) the haptic interface location. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of setting a constraint geometry comprises setting at least one of a constraint point, constraint curve, and a constraint surface. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of determining the position of the virtual tool further comprises moving the position of the virtual tool to coincide with the haptic interface location. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of modifying the voxel-based virtual object based on the position of the virtual tool. 23. The method of claim 19, further comprising calculating an interaction force among the constraint geometry, the voxel-based virtual object, and the virtual tool in response to the step of determining the position of the virtual tool. 24. The method of claim 19, further comprising the steps of selecting a modification mode that modifies a voxel value representative of the voxel-based virtual object, and modifying the voxel-based virtual object in response to the modification mode and the position of the virtual tool. 25. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of constraining the action of the virtual tool comprises constraining the translation of the virtual tool. 26. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of constraining the action of the virtual tool comprises constraining the rotation of the virtual tool. 27. A system for interfacing with a voxel-based virtual object in a haptic virtual environment, the system comprising: a voxel-based virtual object comprising a virtual surface; a virtual tool for use by the user in the haptic virtual environment; a constraint geometry limiting the movement of the virtual tool in the haptic virtual environment; a haptic interface device, wherein the haptic interface device senses a position of the user in real space; a modeling application in communication with the haptic interface device, the voxel-based virtual object, and the virtual tool, wherein the modeling application determines a haptic interface location in the haptic virtual environment in response to the location of the user in real space; determines a position of the virtual tool in the haptic virtual environment in comparison to the haptic interface location, and the location of the virtual surface and the constraint geometry; and constraining an action of the virtual tool based on (i) the constraint geometry, (ii) the virtual surface, and (iii) the position of the virtual tool, and (iv) the haptic interface location. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the constraint geometry is at least one of a constraint point, constraint curve, and a constraint surface. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein the modeling application determines the position of the virtual tool by moving the position of the virtual tool to coincide with the haptic interface location. 30. The system of claim 27, wherein the modeling application modifies the voxel-based virtual object based on the position of the virtual tool. 31. The system of claim 27, wherein the modeling application calculates an interaction force among the constraint geometry, the voxel-based virtual object, and the virtual tool in response to determining the position of the virtual tool. 32. The system of claim 27, further comprising a modification mode that modifies a voxel value representative of the voxel-based virtual object, and the modeling application modifies the voxel-based virtual object in response to the modification mode and the position of the virtual tool. 33. The system of claim 27, wherein the action of the virtual tool comprises a translation of the virtual tool. 34. The system of claim 27, wherein the action of the virtual tool comprises a rotation of the virtual tool. 