A robotic tool changer for the transfer of a secondary current across a master module and a tool module capable of being mated together. In one embodiment, the electrical contacts on the two modules, comprising a pair of contacts with a flat plate for electrical contact and a vertical connector tab for connection to a cable, are generally the same size and shape and are interchangeable. Both sets of contacts are slideably mounted on their respective modules, and can be moved laterally relative to each other to alter the size of a gap formed between the connector tabs, to fit a variety of kickless cable terminals. The contacts on the master module may connect directly to a kickless cable terminal, and are thus cooled by a water cooling system of the kickless cable. The contacts on the tool module may connect to a pair of shunt cables. The tool module contacts are moveable from a retracted to an extended position relative to the tool module, and are biased towards the extended position by springs. The master module contacts are fixed. When the master and tool modules are mated, the tool module contacts are biased to assume a spaced apart relationship relative to the master module contacts by springs. An actuator mounted on the master module engages the tool module contacts and moves them from the extended position to the retracted position, where they abut the fixed master module contacts and establish electrical connectivity across the tool changer. When the actuator releases the tool module contacts, the springs move the tool module contacts away from the master module contacts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic tool changer adapted to connect directly to a kickless cable carrying a secondary current comprising: a. a master module and a tool module adapted to be coupled and decoupled; b. a pair of contacts secured to the tool module; and c. a pair of contacts secured to the master module, each of the master module contacts including a contact surface and a connector tab and wherein the pair of master module contacts are arranged and spaced such that the associated connector tabs cooperate to directly receive and connect to the kickless cable; and d. wherein each contact associated with the master module includes a generally flat plate portion that forms the contact surface and wherein the connector tab of each master module contact is integral with the flat plate portion and assumes a turned up orientation relative to the flat plate portion. 2. The robotic tool changer of claim 1 wherein the kickless cable includes a terminal and wherein the connector tabs of the contacts associated with the master module defines a space there between for receiving the terminal of the kickless cable. 3. The robotic tool changer of claim 2 wherein the contacts secured to the master module are laterally adjustable such that the space between the connector tabs of the contacts associated with the master module may be adjusted so as to accommodate kickless cable terminals of different sizes. 4. The robotic tool changer of claim 2 wherein the terminal is secured between the connector tabs by an elongated connector adapted to extend through an opening formed in each connector tab and an opening formed in the terminal of the kickless cable. 5. The robotic tool changer of claim 4 wherein the elongated connector includes a bolt and nut assembly. 6. The robotic tool changer of claim 4 wherein the opening formed in each connector tab is elongated such that the terminal of the kickless cable can be adjustably positioned between the connector tabs. 7. The robotic tool changer of claim 1 wherein the contacts of the tool module are generally similar to the contacts of the master module in design, shape and size such that the contacts of the master and tool modules are interchangeable. 8. The robotic tool changer of claim 1 wherein when the tool changer assumes a coupled position one pair of the contacts at least partially overlies the other pair of contacts, and wherein one pair of the contacts is moveable relative to the other pair of contacts and is biased to assume a spaced-apart relationship relative to the other pair of contacts, and wherein the tool changer is provided with an actuator for engaging the moveable pair of contacts and moving the moveable pair of contacts into engagement with the other pair of contacts such that an electrical connection is established between the two pair of contacts. 9. The robotic tool changer of claim 8 wherein the respective contacts of each pair of contacts are laterally adjustable and wherein the moveable pair of contacts are biased to the spaced-apart position relative to the other pair of contacts by at least one spring. 10. A robotic tool changer, comprising: a. a master module and a tool module adapted to be coupled and decoupled; b. a first pair of electrical contacts associated with the master module and a second pair of electrical contacts associated with the tool module; c. at least one of said pair of contacts being moveable between an extended and retracted position and being biased towards the extended position; d. wherein when said master and tool modules assume a coupled relationship, said first and second pair of contacts are disposed adjacent to each other and wherein when said moveable pair of contacts assumes the extended position, said first and second pairs of contacts are disposed in spaced apart relationships; and e. an actuator associated with the robotic tool changer for engaging the moveable pair of contacts and moving said moveable pair of contacts to the retracted position where said moveable pair of contacts engages the other pair of contacts and establishes an electrical connection between said first and second pairs of contacts. 11. The robotic tool changer of claim 10 wherein each contact of the first and second pair of contacts includes a plate portion and a connector tab, and wherein said contacts of each pair are laterally adjustable such that the distance between said associated connector tabs can be adjusted, thereby permitting the robotic tool changer to be connected to electric cables of various width. 12. The robotic tool changer of claim 11 wherein the plate portion and the connector tab of each contact are of an integral one-piece construction with the connector tab being turned up relative to the plate portion. 13. The robotic tool changer of claim 12 wherein said connector tab of each contact lies in a plane generally perpendicular to the plane of said plate portion of that contact. 14. The robotic tool changer of claim 11 wherein each contact of said first and second pairs of contacts includes at least one elongated slot formed therein, and wherein said contact is secured to a respective module by at least one threaded connector that extends through said elongated slot, and wherein said elongated slot permits the contact to be moved laterally back and forth and accordingly adjusted on the module to which it is secured. 15. The robotic tool changer of claim 10 wherein one pair of said contacts is fixed to one of said modules and wherein said actuator is also secured to said module having said pair of contacts fixed thereto. 16. The robotic tool changer of claim 16 wherein said fixed contacts and said actuator are mounted on said master module, and wherein said actuator is operative to engage and move said pair of moveable contacts which are disposed on said tool module. 17. The robotic tool changer of claim 15, wherein when said tool and master modules assume a coupled relationship, said first and second pairs of contacts are disposed one over the other. 18. The robotic tool changer of claim 10, wherein each contact of said first and second pairs of contacts is interchangeable with at least one of the other contacts. 19. The robotic tool changer of claim 10, wherein each contact of said first and second pairs of contacts is substantially structurally identically to at least one of the other contacts. 20. The robotic tool changer of claim 18, wherein each contact of said first and second pairs of contacts includes a generally flat plate portion and a connector tab that is integral with said plate portion and extends at an angle generally perpendicular to said plate portion. 21. The robotic tool changer of claim 10, including at least one spring engaged with each movable contact for biasing the movable contact to the extended portion. 22. The robotic tool changer of claim 10, including a support member mounted on a respective module for supporting the pair of movable contacts, and wherein said support member includes a series of spring cavities for receiving and holding a series of springs, and wherein said springs disposed in said spring cavities engage said pair of movable contacts and bias said movable contacts toward the extended position. 23. The robotic tool changer of claim 22, wherein each movable contact supported on said support member is laterally movable thereon, such that the gap between the associated connector tabs may be adjusted such that electrical cables of various thicknesses may be inserted into the gap and connected to said connector tabs. 24. The robotic tool changer of claim 20, wherein said connector tabs of each pair of connectors are adapted to connect to either a kickless cable or one or more shunt cables. 25. The robotic tool changer of claim 24, wherein each contact of said first and second pairs of contacts includes a connector tab, and wherein said connector tabs of each pair are spaced apart to receive the terminal end of a kickless cable, while each connector tab is also adapted to connect to a shunt cable. 26. The robotic tool changer of claim 10, wherein said actuator comprises a pneumatic actuator having a housing and at least one piston reciprocally mounted in the housing. 27. The robotic tool changer of claim 26, wherein said pneumatic actuator includes two pistons mounted in side-by-side relationship, with each piston having a rod connected thereto and extending from said piston through said housing; and a plate disposed exteriorly of said housing and connected to a terminal end portion of each of said rods such that the actuation of said pistons results in relative movement between said housing and said plate. 28. The robotic tool changer of claim 27, wherein one pair of contacts is fixedly secured to the respective module having said pneumatic actuator also mounted thereon, and wherein when the modules are coupled, the retraction of said pistons within said housing results in said housing engaging said movable contacts and moving said movable contacts into electrical contact with said fixed contacts. 29. The robotic tool changer of claim 10, wherein said actuator includes a pair of pistons mounted in side-by-side relationship with each piston including an actuating rod extending therefrom, and wherein each actuating rod includes a terminal end portion that is connected to a connecting plate, whereby the tendency of said rods to rotate is substantially cancelled. 30. The robotic tool changer of claim 10, wherein at least one pair of contacts is adapted to connect to a kickless cable that includes an integral water cooling system for thermally cooling the kickless cable, and wherein the connection of the water cooled kickless cable to said pair of contacts results in the thermal cooling of said contacts. 31. A system for transferring secondary current across a robotic tool changer, comprising: a. a master module and a tool module mateable to each other; b. a first pair of horizontally aligned contacts slideably mounted to the master module and laterally adjustable thereon, each said contact having a horizontal plate for establishing electrical contact and a vertical connector tab for attachment to an electrical cable; c. a pneumatic actuator associated with the master module and selectively moveable between a deployed and a withdrawn position; d. a second pair of horizontally aligned contacts, each said contact having a horizontal plate for establishing electrical contact and a vertical connector tab for attachment to an electrical cable, wherein said second pair of contacts are slideably mounted to the tool module and are both laterally adjustable thereon and moveable vertically between an extended and a retracted position; e. at least one spring disposed between said tool module and each of said second pair of contacts for biasing said second pair of contacts to the extended position, where said contacts are in spaced apart relation to said first pair of contacts when the master and tool modules are mated; and wherein when said actuator is moved to the deployed position, said actuator engages said second pair of contacts and moves said second pair of contacts from the extended position to the retracted position, where said second pair of contacts engages said first pair of contacts and forms an electrical connection therebetween. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein said first and second pair of contacts are generally similar in design, shape and size, and are interchangable. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein said vertical connector tabs of said contacts include a slot formed therein. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein said connector tabs of said contacts are disposed in spaced apart relationship, forming a gap therebetween for accepting an electrical cable terminal. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the respective contacts of each pair are laterally adjustable with respect to each other such that the width of the gap formed between said connector tabs is adjustable to facilitate attachment of a variety of electrical cable terminals. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein each respective connector tab of each pair of contacts has an inner face proximate the other tab of said pair and an outer face opposite the inner face, and wherein said connector tabs are positioned and adapted to attach a kickless electrical cable between said connector tabs, or two shunt cables, one on the outer face of each said connector tab. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the kickless cable is water cooled, and wherein when the kickless cable terminal is connected to one of said pair of contacts, said contacts are cooled by the water cooling of the kickless cable. 38. The system of claim 31, wherein said second pair of contacts is electrically insulated from said tool module. 39. The system of claim 31, wherein said first pair of contacts is electrically insulated from said master module. 40. The system of claim 31, wherein said pneumatic actuator comprises at least two cylinders, each said cylinder containing a piston and shaft. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein said pneumatic actuator is limited to rectilinear motion in the axial direction of said cylinders. 42. A robotic tool changer, comprising: a. a master module and a tool module adapted to be coupled and decoupled; b. a first pair of electrical contacts associated with the master module and a second pair of electrical contracts associated with a tool module; c. each contact of each pair including a generally flat plate portion and a connector tab; d. at least one of said pair of contacts being movable between an extended and retracted position; e. at least one spring for engaging each contact of the movable pair of contacts and biasing the engaged contacts towards the extended position. f. wherein when said master and tool modules assume a couple relationship, said first and second pair of contacts are disposed adjacent to each other and wherein when said movable pair of contacts assume the extended position, said first and second pairs of contacts are disposed and spaced apart relationship; and g. an actuator associated with the robotic tool changer for engaging the movable pair of contacts and moving said movable pair of contacts to the retracted position where said movable pair of contacts engage the other pair of contacts and establish an electrical connection between said first and second pairs of contacts. 43. The tool changer of claim 42 wherein the connector tab of each contact is oriented at an angle with respect to the plate portion of the contact and wherein each contact of each pair is interchangeable with one contact of the other pair. 44. The tool changer of claim 42, wherein the contacts of each pair are laterally adjustable on the respective modules such that the distance between the connector tabs of each pair of contacts is adjustable to receive cables of various thicknesses. 45. The tool changer of claim 42 wherein the pair of movable contacts are mounted on the tool module while the other pair of contacts are fixedly secured to the master module and wherein the actuator is also secured to the master module; and wherein the actuation of the actuator results in the actuator engaging the pair of movable contacts and moving the movable contacts from the extended position to the retracted position where the movable contacts engaged the pair of fixed contacts and establish an electrical connection between the master and tool modules. 46. The tool changer of claim 42, wherein each contact of the first pair of electrical contacts associated with the master module includes a connector tab and wherein the connector tabs of the first pair of electrical contacts are adapted to connect directly to a kickless cable. 47. The tool changer of claim 46 wherein the first pair of electrical contacts are laterally adjustable such that the distance between the connector tabs of the first pair of contacts may be adjusted for receiving electrical cables of various thicknesses. 48. A robotic tool changer adapted to connect directly to a kickless cable carrying a secondary current comprising: a. a master module and a tool module adapted to be coupled and decoupled; b. a pair of contacts secured to the tool module; a. a pair of contacts secured to the master module, each of the master module contacts including a contact surface and a connector tab and wherein the pair of master module contacts are arranged and spaced such that the associated connector tabs cooperate to directly receive and connect to the kickless cable; and b. wherein when the tool changer assumes a coupled position one pair of the contacts at least partially overlies the other pair of contacts, and wherein one pair of contacts is moveable relative to the other pair of contacts and is biased to assume a spaced-apart relationship relative to the other pair of contacts, and wherein the tool changer is provided with an actuator for engaging the moveable pair of contacts and moving the moveable pair of contacts into engagement with the other pair of contact such that an electrical connection is established between the two pair of contacts. 