A uniform user interface for network access can enable a network agent to access multiple discrete network services. A uniform network access mechanism can include software operative on multiple operating systems and executed on a network access device. A registry can display discrete services available on a network and implement communication with a discrete service listed as available. A discrete service can be identified with a Personal Network (PeN) address comprising an Internet Protocol address and a port number. Sending and receiving of data packets can be coordinated. A data packet can be received and parsed with an action responsive to the content of a received packet performed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a communications network comprising a plurality of network access devices, an improved network access mechanism enabling the plurality of network access devices to communicate directly with each other, the network access mechanism comprising: a plurality of network access devices accessible via a communications network; and executable software stored on each network access device, wherein the software is executable on demand, the software operative with a network access device to enable the network access device to: display a registry of resources available on the plurality of network access devices; associate a personal network address with each available resource, wherein the personal network address comprises an internet protocol address portion and a port number portion; and establish a direct communications link between one network access device hosting an available resource and another network access device utilizing the personal network address. 2. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein the executable software is additionally operative to cause a first network access device to be active in displaying the registry of resources available on the plurality of network access devices and subsequently cause a second network access device to be active in displaying the registry of resources available on the plurality of network access devices. 3. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein the executable software is additionally operative to cause a first network access device to poll the communications network to determine if a particular second network access device is available to communicate with. 4. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein the polling comprises a ping of an internet protocol address portion of a personal network address. 5. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein the executable software is additionally operative to cause the network access device to: poll each internet protocol address comprising the personal network addresses listed in the registry; certify the accuracy of the registry according to the results of the poll. 6. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein the executable software is additionally operative to cause each network access device to specify to the registry the extent to which each network access device will make resources on the network access device available and publish the resources available. 7. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein each personal network address comprises a temporary internet protocol address. 8. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein one personal network address comprises a permanent internet protocol address and other personal network addresses comprise a temporary internet protocol address. 9. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein the registry of resources comprises a resource identifier. 10. The improved network access mechanism of claim 9 wherein the resource comprises an application program and the resource identifier comprises a port number. 11. The improved network access mechanism of claim 10 wherein the resource is selected from the group including a database query, a mail message and a file transfer request. 12. The improved network access mechanism of claim 10 wherein the registry comprises a description of an agent operating a network access device associated with a resource. 13. The improved network access mechanism of claim 1 wherein the executable software is additionally operative to cause a resource to link to multiple streams of data. 14. A method for enabling direct communication between each a plurality of network access devices and a least one resource available on each network access device, each resource having a personal network address, the method comprising the steps of: forming a registry on one of the plurality of access devices; receiving into the registry a personal network address for each resource available; transmitting a personal network address of a resource available to a requesting network access device; and establishing a direct communication link between the requesting network access device and the resource. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of polling an internet protocol address portion of each personal network address to certify registry accuracy. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of forming a second registry a second of the plurality of network access devices, wherein the second registry comprises the same resources as the registry and making the second registry available to the network access devices if the registry becomes unavailable. 17. The method of claim 14 or 16 wherein the registry comprises a description of an agent associated with each network access device. 