Within both a stocker apparatus and a method for operating the stocker apparatus there is employed, in addition to: (1) a minimum of one input/output port; (2) an array of storage locations for storing an array of work in process (WIP) product units; and (3) a random access transportation means for transporting a work in process (WIP) product unit at least bidirectionally between the minimum of one input/output port and a storage location within the array of storage locations; (4) a controller for controlling the random access transportation means. Within the stocker apparatus and the method, the controller is programmed such that upon unavailability of the minimum of one input/output port and upon concurrent receipt of a request to retrieve a work in process (WIP) product unit stored within the array of storage locations to reposition the requested work in process (WIP) product unit to a designated storage location within the array of storage locations where it may be manually retrieved.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stocker apparatus comprising: a minimum of one input/output port; an array of storage locations for storing an array of work in process product units; a random access transportation means for transporting a work in process product unit at least bidirectionally between the minimum of one input/output port and a storage location within the array of storage locations; and a controller for controlling the random access transportation means, wherein the controller is programmed such that upon unavailability of the minimum of one input/output port and upon concurrent receipt of a request to retrieve a work in process product unit stored within the array of storage locations to reposition the requested work in process product unit to a designated storage location within the array of storage locations where it may be manually retrieved. 2. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work in process product unit is selected from the group consisting of mechanical work in process product units, electrical work in process product units and electro-mechanical work in process product units. 3. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work in process product unit is a microelectronic work in process product unit selected from the group consisting of integrated circuit microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, ceramic substrate microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, solar cell optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, sensor image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units and display image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units. 4. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a rigid exterior surface plate covering a side of the designated storage location. 5. The stocker apparatus of claim 4 further comprising a door within the rigid exterior surface plate positioned and sized such as to manually access the requested work in process (WIP) product unit from the designated storage location. 6. The stocker apparatus of claim 1 wherein the array of storage locations and the random access transportation means are on the same side of the minimum of one input/output port. 7. A method for operating a stocker apparatus comprising: providing a stocker apparatus comprising: a minimum of one input/output port; an array of storage locations for storing an array of work in process product units; a random access transportation means for transporting a work in process product unit at least bidirectionally between the minimum of one input/output port and a storage location within the array of storage locations; and a controller for controlling the random access transportation means, wherein the controller is programmed such that upon unavailability of the minimum of one input/output port and upon concurrent receipt of a request to retrieve a work in process product unit stored within the array of storage locations to reposition the requested work in process product unit to a designated storage location within the array of storage locations where it may be manually retrieved; making unavailable the minimum of one input/output port; requesting the requested work in process product unit stored within the array of storage locations; repositioning the requested work in process product unit to the designated storage location within the array of storage locations wherein it may be manually retrieved; and manually retrieving the requested work in process product unit. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the work in process product unit is selected from the group consisting of mechanical work in process product units, electrical work in process product units and electro-mechanical work in process product units. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the work in process product unit is a microelectronic work in process product unit selected from the group consisting of integrated circuit microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, ceramic substrate microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, solar cell optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units, sensor image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units and display image array optoelectronic microelectronic fabrication work in process product units. 10. The method of claim 7 further comprising a rigid exterior surface plate covering a side of the designated storage location. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising a door within the rigid exterior surface plate positioned and sized such as to manually access the requested work in process (WIP) product unit from the designated storage location. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the minimum of one input/output port is made unavailable incident to an event selected from the group consisting of preventative maintenance of the minimum of one input/output port and malfunction of the minimum of one input/output port. 13. The method of claim 7 wherein the array of storage locations and the random access transportation means are located on the same side of the minimum of one input/output port. 