A high throughput, automated process for coating ceramic monoliths used as catalytic converters that overcomes problems with coating monoliths individually in a mold. The monoliths are provided with end caps to cover the open functional ends, then loaded serially into an inlet channel leading to an extrusion chamber. As each monolith is pushed into the channel, one monolith enters the extrusion chamber, and the monolith just coated in the extrusion chamber is made to exit onto a finished part conveyor. Thereafter, the end caps are removed and cleaned for reuse on new monoliths yet to be coated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for continuously applying seal material to monolithic catalyst structures, each structure having a lateral surface and two end surfaces, comprising: applying temporary sealing to the end surfaces of each of the catalytic structures; aligning the catalyst structures end to end to form a column; moving the column of catalyst structures a discrete distance so that one of the catalyst structures moves into an extrusion chamber; removing enough air from the extrusion chamber to ensure that the available space within the chamber will be filled with seal material; supplying seal material to the extrusion chamber effective to coat the structure; moving the column of catalyst structures a discrete distance effective to push another structure into the chamber and to remove the structure just coated from the chamber; and removing the temporary sealing from the end surfaces of the coated structure. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising removing excess seal material from the coated structure. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the steps of moving the column, removing air, and supplying seal material are synchronized using a control system. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, whererin the temporary sealing comprises end caps. 5. A method as claimed in claim 4, including the additional steps of cleaning and recycling the end caps for use on other structures to be coated. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, including the additional step of removing water from of the seal material coated onto the structure. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the water is removed by heating in a dryer. 