An assay system is provided for detecting the enzymatic activity of a phosphorylation enzyme. The enzyme may be a phosphatase or protein kinase. The substrate for the enzyme is immobilized on a solid support via covalent or non-covalent binding through a signal enhancing polymer. The immobilized substrate provides an enhanced signal to background ratio when compared to a substrate in solution. The methods are easily adapted to high throughput screening systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved method for screening samples to perform a phosphorylation assay, wherein the sensitivity of said assay is improved relative to an unconjugated peptide substrate by the method comprising: conjugating a peptide substrate to a signal enhancing polymer; immobilizing said polymer and conjugated peptide substrate on a solid surface; exposing said immobilized substrate to a mixture comprising a candidate modulating agent for phosphorylation; a phosphorylation enzyme, and detectably labeled source of phosphate groups, for a period of time sufficient for said enzyme to act on said substrate, and measuring the degree of phosphorylation of the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said phosphorylation enzyme is a phosphatase. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said phosphorylation enzyme is a protein kinase. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said protein kinase is a serine/threonine kinase. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said peptide substrates are conjugated to a polymer and immobilized on a solid surface in a single step. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said peptide substrates are conjugated to said signal enhancing polymer via a bifunctional linker. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said candidate modulating agent for phosphorylation is an inhibitor of phosphorylation. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said candidate modulating agent for phosphorylation is an enhancer of phosphorylation. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymer is a polyamine. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the polyamine is polylysine. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said polylysine polymer is from 400 to 500,000 Daltons in weight. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein said polylysine polymer is from 30,000 to 250,000 Daltons in weight. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid surface comprises a multiwell plate. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid surface is a microsphere. 15. The method of claim 6, wherein said bifunctional linker comprises a succinimidyl ester and a maleimide or iodoacetamide. 16. An improved method for affinity purification of phosphorylation enzymes, wherein the sensitivity is improved by the method comprising: conjugating a peptide substrate to a signal enhancing polymer; immobilizing said polymer and conjugated peptide substrate on a matrix; exposing said immobilized substrate to a complex mixture comprising a candidate phosphorylation enzyme and detectably labeled source of phosphate groups; for a period of time sufficient for said enzyme to bind to said substrate; washing said matrix free of unbound material; and eluting said candidate phosphorylation enzyme from said matrix. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said phosphorylation enzyme is a phosphatase. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein said phosphorylation enzyme is a protein kinase. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said protein kinase is a serine/threonine kinase. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein said peptide substrates are conjugated to said signal enhancing polymer via a bifunctional linker. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the polymer is a polyamine. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the polyamine is polylysine. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein said polylysine polymer is from 400 to 500,000 Daltons in weight. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein said polylysine polymer is from 30,000 to 250,000 Daltons in weight. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein said bifunctional linker comprises a succinimidyl ester and a maleimide or iodoacetamide. 