A system and a method for moving cartridges between individual cartridge libraries of a multi-library system. The system includes one or more transport robots operating on one or more guide structures. The transport robots carry the cartridges independently of all individual libraries, except the sending and receiving libraries. Load ports at each library transfer the cartridges between the transport robots and the library's robotic arm. The load ports can also hold the cartridges allowing for asynchronous operations between the transport robots and sending/receiving libraries. The guide structures may be routed through one, two or all three dimensions allowing individual library placements to account for walls, columns, floors, ceilings, and other physical obstacles. One or more controllers may be included to coordinate transport robot and cartridge movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A library system for storing cartridges, the system comprising: a first housing an interior and an exterior, wherein the first housing houses a first storage library with the first storage library being placed within the interior of the first housing, the first housing having a first load port which provides access to the first storage library from the exterior of the first housing; a second housing having an interior and an exterior, wherein the second housing houses a second storage library with the second storage library being placed within the interior of the second housing, the second housing having a second load port which provides access to the second storage library from the exterior of the second housing; wherein the first housing is located outside of the exterior of the second housing, and the second housing is located outside of the exterior of the first housing; a first guide structure routed between the first and second load ports; and at least one transport robot operable to move along the first guide structure while carrying at least one cartridge in order to transfer the at least one cartridge through the first and second load ports between the first and second storage libraries. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a third housing having an interior and an exterior, wherein the third housing houses a third storage library with the third storage library being placed within the interior of the third housing, the third housing having a third load port which provides access to the third storage library from the exterior of the third housing; a second guide structure routed between the second and third load ports; wherein the third housing is located outside of the exteriors of the first and second housings, and the first and second housings are located outside of the exterior of the third housing; wherein the at least one transport robot is operable to move along the second guide structure while carrying at least one cartridge in order to transfer the at least one cartridge through the second and third load ports between the second and third storage libraries. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising: a third guide structure routed between the first and third load ports; wherein the at least one transport robot is operable to move along the third guide structure while carrying at least one cartridge in order to transfer the at least one cartridge through the first and third load ports between the first and third storage libraries. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least one controller in communication with the first and second libraries and the at least one transport robot, the at least one controller being operative to coordinate movement of the at least one transport robot to transfer the at least one cartridge between the first and second libraries. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the at least one controller is one main controller. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein the at least one controller is a local controller disposed on each respective transport robot of the at least one transport robot. 7. The system of claim 4 further comprising a wireless communications link between the at least one controller and the at least one transport robot. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the wireless communications link is selected from a group of wireless communication links consisting of a radio link, an optical link, and an acoustic link. 9. The system of claim 4 wherein the communication between the at least one controller and the at least one transport robot is accomplished through at least one cable selected from a group of cables consisting of an electrical cable and a fiber optic cable. 10. The system of claim 4 wherein the at least one controller and the at least one transport robot communicate with each other using the first guide structure as a communications medium. 11. The system of claim 4 further comprising a plurality of sensors, each sensor of the plurality of sensors disposed at a fixed position with respect to each load port respectively and in communication with the at least one controller for aligning the at least one transport robot with respect to the load ports. 12. The system of claim 4 further comprising at least one sensor disposed on each transport robot of the at least one transport robot, the at least one sensor being in communication with the at least one controller for aligning the respective transport robot with respect to the load ports. 13. The system of claim 4 further comprising: a propulsion mechanism in communication with the at least one controller and coupled to the at least one transport robot for moving the at least one transport robot along the first guide structure; and at least one sensor coupled to the propulsion mechanism and in communication with the at least one controller for aligning the at least one transport robot with respect to the load ports. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein the first guide structure is a plurality of guide structures, the system further comprising at least one junction connecting at least two guide structures of the plurality of guide structures and operative to route the at least one transport robot between the at least two guide structures. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the at least one junction is selected from a group of junctions consisting of a turntable, a switch and an elevator. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein the first guide structure is at least one rail. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the at least one rail is a plurality of rails, the system further comprising at least one power supply applying electrical power to the plurality of rails, and wherein the at least one transport robot is operative to draw electrical power from the plurality of rails. 18. The system of claim 1 wherein the first guide structure is at least one tube. 19. The system of claim 18 further comprising: at least one pump; a plurality of valves connecting the at least one pump to the at least one tube; and a valve controller in communication with the plurality of valves, the valve controller being operative to control the plurality of valves to control movement of the at least one transport robot within the at least one tube. 20. The system of claim 1 wherein the first guide structure is at least one cable. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein the at least one transport robot is coupled to the at least one cable, the system further comprising: a plurality of pulleys routing the at least one cable; at least one motor rotatably coupled to at least one pulley of the plurality of pulleys; and at least one motor controller in communication with the at least one motor, the at least one motor controller being operative to control the at least one motor to control movement of the at least one transport robot. 22. The system of claim 1 wherein the first guide structure is at least one channel. 23. The system of claim 22 further comprising: at least one belt disposed in each channel of the at least one channel; at least one motor coupled to the at least one belt to cause the at least one belt to move; and at least one motor controller in communication with the at least one motor, the at least one motor controller being operative to control the at least one motor to control movement of the at least one transport robot. 24. The system of claim 1 further comprising a battery disposed on each transport robot of the at least one transport robot to supply electrical power to the at least one transport robot. 25. The system of claim 1 wherein the first guide structure is a plurality of guide structures and the at least one transport robot is a plurality of transport robots, the system further comprising at least one cartridge transfer mechanism disposed between at least two guide structures of the plurality of guide structures and operative to transfer the at least one cartridge between two transport robots of the plurality of transport robots on different guide structures. 26. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least one gripper disposed on each transport robot of the at least one transport robot, each gripper of the at least one gripper is operative to exchange one cartridge with the load ports. 27. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of grippers, at least one gripper of the plurality of grippers being disposed in each load port, each gripper of the plurality of grippers is operative to exchange one cartridge with the at least one transport robot. 28. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of mechanical stops disposed along the first guide structure at a fixed position with respect to the load ports, each mechanical stop of the plurality of mechanical stops having a passing mode and a stopping mode and is operative to align the at least one transport robot with a respective load port of the load ports when in the stopping mode, and allow the at least one transport robot to pass when in the passing mode. 29. The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one transport robot is a plurality of transport robots and wherein positioning between the first guide structure and the load ports allows a first transport robot of the plurality of transport robots to depart from a select load port of the load ports by moving in a first direction while a second transport robot of the plurality of transport robots approaches the select load port by moving in the first direction. 30. In a library system having first and second storage libraries housing within the interiors of respective first and second housings, the first and second housings having respective first and second ports which provide access to the respective first and second storage libraries from the exterior of the respective first and second housings, the first housing being located outside of the exterior of the second housing and the second housing being located outside of the exterior of the first housing, the library system further including a first guide structure routed between the first and second ports, a method for moving cartridges between the first and second storage libraries, the method comprising: receiving a command to move a cartridge from the first storage library to the second storage library; moving a transport robot along the first guide structure to the first port in response to receiving the command; transferring the cartridge from the first storage library to the first port in response to receiving the command; transferring the cartridge from the first port to the transport robot; moving the transport robot along the first guide structure to the second port while the transport robot is carrying the cartridge; transferring the cartridge from the transport robot to the second port; and transferring the cartridge from the second port of the second storage library. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the library system further includes a third storage library housed within the interior of a third housing, the third housing having a third port which provides access to the third storage library from the exterior of the third housing, the third housing being located outside of the exteriors of the first and second housings and the first and second housings being located outside of the exterior of the third housing, the library system further including a second guide structure routed between the second and third ports, the method further comprising: receiving a command to move a cartridge from the second storage library to the third storage library; moving a transport robot along the second guide structure to the second port in response to receiving the command; transferring the cartridge from the second storage library to the second port in response to receiving the command; transferring the cartridge from the second port to the transport robot; moving the transport robot along the second guide structure to the third port while the transport robot is carrying the cartridge; transferring the cartridge from the transport robot to the third port; and transferring the cartridge from the third port to the third storage library. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the library system further includes a third guide structure routed between the first and third load ports, the method further comprising: receiving a command to move a cartridge from the first storage library to the third storage library; moving a transport robot along the third guide structure to the first port in response to receiving the command; transferring the cartridge from the first storage library to the first port in response to receiving the command; transferring the cartridge from the first port to the transport robot; moving the transport robot along the third guide structure to the third port while the transport robot is carrying the cartridge; transferring the cartridge from the transport robot to the third port; and transferring the cartridge from the third port to the third storage library. 