A device for and method of robotically crating objects, such as consumer goods, being capable of securing an upstanding enclosure to a recyclable pallet having structural uprights. The device conveys a pallet and enclosure assembly into a work station, installs a number of threaded fasteners into predetermined locations in the top and two adjacent sides of the assembly, rotates the assembly one-hundred eighty degrees, installs fasteners into the two remaining sides, rotates the assembly back to the initial position, and conveys the secured crate assembly out of the work station. The device includes the ability to detect the number of times a recyclable pallet has been used, and to adjust the exact locations of fasteners accordingly, thereby assuring that new fasteners are always installed into an unused fastener location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for securing a container to a pallet, said pallet having means for indicating prior use, said container having an open underside and a marginal end portion, said marginal end portion engageable with and overlaying said pallet and defining a surrounding fastening surface, said apparatus comprising: means for communicating with said pallet prior use indicating means to determine prior pallet usage and generating a communication; and a robotic arm having a fastener driving device, said robotic arm having means to accept and interpret said communication in accordance with a pre-set program for installing fasteners in pre-selected unused portions of said fastening surface in accordance with said program and as affected by the input of said communication to said pre-set program. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pallet prior use indicating means includes a predetermined number of apertures formed in said pallet, and said communicating means includes a plurality of mechanical probe devices arranged to be received in at least one of said apertures and generate said communication to detect prior usage of said pallet. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a conveyor arranged to convey said pallet toward and away from said robotic arm. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a rotary turntable arranged to support and rotate said pallet during fastener installation. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said fastener driving device comprises a pneumatic screwdriver. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the pneumatic screwdriver further includes a torque-controlling device. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a fastener feeding mechanism connected to said fastener driving device for feeding fasteners to said device. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the communication of said means for communicating with said pallet prior use indicating means produces an electronic signal that is converted to define said pre-selected unused portions of said fastening surface. 