A device for monitoring welds is provided. The device can be used during a welding operation without interfering with the welding and can be located in the direct vicinity of the weld. This is achieved using a radar sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Welding system having a welding tool and a monitoring device, the monitoring device comprising a radar sensor which has a transmitter and receiver for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic radiation in the radar and/or microwave range, wherein the radar sensor is movable with respect to an object along a weld seam, which weld seam is made by the welding tool. 2. System according to claim 1, wherein an automatic control of the welding system is provided via the radar sensor signal. 3. System according to claim 1, further comprising a defect detector for detecting defects in the weld seam using the radar sensor. 4. System according to claim 1, wherein the radar sensor and/or objects to be welded together are movably arranged with respect to one another. 5. System according to claim 1, wherein the radar sensor and at least partially the welding tool are fastened to a common holding device. 6. System according to claim 1, wherein an analysis unit is provided for analyzing a frequency shift between the transmitted and received signal. 7. System according to claim 1, wherein a waveguide is provided. 8. System according to claim 7, wherein the waveguide is a metallic or ceramic hollow waveguide. 9. System according to claim 1, wherein a focussing element is provided for focussing the electromagnetic radiation on the weld. 10. System according to claim 9, wherein the focussing element comprises one of a horn-shaped emitter and a radar lens. 11. System according to claim 1, wherein a transmission frequency is used which is of a narrow-band with respect to the frequency shift to be expected. 12. System according to claim 1, wherein the wavelength of the emitted radiation is in the order of the width of the weld or smaller. 13. System according to claim 1, wherein an analysis of vibrations is provided in the area of the weld. 14. System according to claim 1, wherein a vibration generator is provided for exciting mechanical vibrations of the parts to be welded together or of the welded-together parts in the area of the weld. 15. Method of welding, wherein a system according to claim 1, is used. 16. A welding system, comprising: a welding tool; and a monitoring device, the monitoring device comprising a radar sensor which has a transmitter and receiver for transmitting and receiving electromagnetic radiation in the radar and/or microwave range, wherein the radar sensor is movable with respect to an object along a weld seam, which weld seam is made by the welding tool. 