A luminescence detecting apparatus and method for analyzing luminescent samples is disclosed. Luminescent samples are placed in a plurality of sample wells in a tray, and the tray is placed in a visible-light impervious chamber containing a charge coupled device camera. The samples may be injected in the wells, and the samples may be injected with buffers and reagents, by an injector. In the chamber, light from the luminescent samples pass through a collimator, a Fresnel field lens, a filter, and a camera lens, whereupon a focused image is created by the optics on the charge-coupled device (CCD) camera. The use of a Fresnel field lens, in combination with a collimator and filter, reduces crosstalk between samples below the level attainable by the prior art. Preferred embodiments of the luminescence detecting apparatus and method disclosed include central processing control of all operations, multiple wavelength filter wheel, and robot handling of samples and reagents. Preferred embodiments of processing software integrated with the invention include elements for mechanical alignment, outlier shaving, masking, manipulation of multiple integration times to expand the dynamic range, crosstalk correction, dark subtraction interpolation and drift correction, multi-component analysis applications specifically tailored for luminescence, and uniformity correction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An imaging system, comprising: a charge coupled device; a collimator; a Fresnel lens positioned between the collimator and the charge coupled device; and a camera lens positioned between the Fresnel lens and the charge coupled device; wherein the collimator, the Fresnel lens and the camera lens are arranged such that luminescent emissions from a source passing through the collimator toward the charge coupled device are refracted by the Fresnel lens and focused by the camera lens onto the charge coupled device to form an image of the source. 2. The imaging system of claim 1, further comprising at least one optical bandpass filter positioned between the Fresnel lens and the camera lens. 3. The imaging system of claim 2, wherein the optical bandpass filter is inclined at an angle with respect to the charge coupled device. 4. The imaging system of claim 3, wherein the optical bandpass filter is inclined at an angle of 20.degree. to 30.degree. relative to the charge coupled device. 5. The imaging system of claim 1, further comprising an infrared filter positioned between the Fresnel lens and the charge coupled device. 6. A luminometer comprising: the imaging system of claim 1; an optical housing; a sample housing; a shuttle adapted to move a sample plate from a load position to a read position in a sample housing; a central processor adapted to collect and analyze image data from the charge coupled device; wherein the charge coupled device and the camera lens are mounted outside of the optical housing and the collimator and the Fresnel lens are mounted inside of the optical housing and wherein the optical housing comprises a region which allows the passage of light such that luminescent emissions from a sample plate in the read position can pass through the collimator and the Fresnel lens and can be focused on the charge coupled device by the camera lens. 7. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising an optical bandpass filter mounted inside of the optical chamber between the region which allows the passage of light and the Fresnel lens. 8. The luminometer of claim 7, wherein the optical bandpass filter is part of a filter assembly comprising a plurality of optical bypass filter elements. 9. The luminometer of claim 8, wherein the filter assembly is a filter wheel comprising a hub and a plurality of radially extending arms and wherein each of the plurality of optical bypass filter elements are mounted to one of the arms. 10. The luminometer of claim 9, further comprising a motor engaged with the hub of the filter wheel, wherein the motor is adapted to rotate the filter wheel to position any one of the plurality of filter elements between the charge coupled device and the Fresnel lens. 11. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a defogger adapted to direct a stream of heated air across a surface of the Fresnel lens. 12. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising a heater adapted to heat a sample mounted in the sample housing. 13. The luminometer of claim 6, further comprising an injector including a plurality of injector ports, wherein the injector is adapted to draw a fluid from a reservoir and deliver the fluid through the injector ports to one or more sample wells on the sample plate. 14. The luminometer of claim 13, further comprising one or more pumps adapted to draw the fluid from the reservoir and deliver the fluid from the reservoir to the injector ports. 15. The luminometer of claim 14, further comprising a two-way valve, wherein the two way valve is adapted to control the passage of fluid drawn from the reservoir and/or delivered to the injector ports. 16. The luminometer of claim 13, further comprising a plurality of injector tubes, each of the injector tubes adapted to convey the fluid from the reservoir to an injector port. 17. A method of determining the mechanical misalignment of a sample tray in the luminometer of claim 6, wherein the sample tray comprises a plurality of sample wells arranged in a grid of rows and columns, the method comprising: placing a luminescent composition in at least two hot wells in a first column of the sample tray and in at least two hot wells in a second column of the sample tray, wherein each of the hot wells are located near a corner of the grid and wherein each hot well is surrounded by four adjacent sample wells, two adjacent sample wells in the same column and two adjacent sample wells in the same row, and wherein the four adjacent sample wells do not contain the luminescent composition; loading the sample tray onto the shuttle in the load position; moving the sample plate into the read position with the shuttle; imaging the sample tray with the charge coupled device; collecting the image data on the central processor; calculating the average misalignment of the sample tray in a first direction by averaging the intensity attributed by the charge coupled device to the wells adjacent to each of the hot wells in the first direction, the first direction corresponding to a column or row of the sample tray; calculating the average misalignment of the sample tray in a second direction perpendicular to the first direction by averaging the intensity attributed by the charge coupled device to the wells adjacent to each of the hot wells in the second direction; calculating the rotational misalignment of the sample tray by: averaging the intensity attributed by the charge coupled device to the adjacent wells in the same column for each of the two hot wells in the first column; averaging the intensity attributed by the charge coupled device to adjacent wells in the same column for each of the two hot wells in the second column; and calculating the difference between the averages determined above, wherein the difference is a measure of the rotational misalignment. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising determining the overall misalignment of the sample tray in the luminometer by, for each of the hot wells: measuring the intensity of luminescent emissions attributed by the charge coupled device to the hot well; measuring the intensity of luminescent emissions attributed by the charge coupled device to each of the two adjacent sample wells in the same column and to each of the two adjacent sample wells in the same rows; calculating an average for the intensity values for the two adjacent wells in the same column and an average for the intensity values for the two adjacent wells in the same row; calculating the difference between the actual intensity attributed by the charge coupled device to each of the two adjacent wells in the same column to the average intensity for the two adjacent wells in the same column; calculating the difference between the actual intensity attributed by the charge coupled device to each of the two adjacent wells in the same row to the average intensity for the two adjacent wells in the same row; normalizing the differences by dividing the differences by the respective hot well intensity and, optionally, converting the result to a percentage; and taking the absolute value of the normalized differences; wherein the largest absolute value is a measure of the overall misalignment of the sample tray. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising adjusting the read position of the shuttle to the luminometer to reduce the rotational misalignment and/or the average misalignment of the sample tray in the first and second directions of the sample trays. 20. A method for high throughput screening of a plurality of sample trays in the luminometer of claim 6, wherein each of the sample trays comprises a plurality of luminescent samples, the method comprising screening a plurality of sample trays in succession, each sample comprising a plurality of samples, wherein, for each sample tray, the method further comprises: loading the sample tray onto the shuttle in the load position; moving the sample plate into the read position with the shuttle; taking at least one image of the sample tray with the charge coupled device at an integration time; collecting the image data generated by the charge coupled device on the central processor; processing the image data; and removing the sample tray from the luminometer. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of taking at least one image comprises: taking a first precursor image of the sample tray with the charge coupled device at a first integration time; taking a second full integration time image of the sample tray with the charge coupled device at a second integration time greater than the first integration time; and taking a third post cursor image of the sample tray with the charge coupled device at a third integration time less than the second integration time; analyzing the full integration time image data with the central processor to determine if more than six pixels are saturated; if more than six pixels of the full integration time image are saturated, using the full integration time normalized average of the pre and post cursor image data for subsequent processing; and if six or fewer pixels are saturated, using the full integration time image data as the image data for subsequent processing. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of processing the image data on the central processor comprises a process selected from the group consisting of: subjecting the image data to masking to extract the data for each particular well; subjecting the image data to outlier shaving; subjecting the image data to dark subtraction; correcting the image data for uniformity variations in the charge coupled device and optical system; correcting the image data for cross-talk from adjacent wells; calibrating the image data to a parameter of interest; subjecting the image data to post adjustment processing; and combinations thereof. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of outlier shaving comprises: identifying outliers by comparing the light intensity for a pixel or pixel area to the light intensity for neighboring pixels or pixel areas, wherein outliers have a light intensity that is significantly different than the neighboring pixels or pixel areas; and for each outlier identified, calculating the average intensity value for the neighboring pixel or pixel areas of each outlier and substituting the average value of intensity of the neighboring pixel or pixel areas for the intensity data of the outlier. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of subjecting the image data to dark subtraction comprises: collecting. dark image data for the luminometer at a first integration time and a second integration time before imaging a sample plate; calculating a slope/intercept line for the two points using least squares regression; normalizing the dark image data for the integration time of the image using the slope/intercept line; and subtracting the integration time normalized dark image data from the image data. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein dark image data is collected before imaging the first sample plate and periodically during high throughput screening, the method further comprising subtracting the integration time normalized dark image data calculated from the most recently collected dark image data from the image data. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of correcting the image data for cross-talk comprises: for each sample well on a sample plate, filling the sample well with a luminescent compound, imaging the sample plate, collecting the intensity data for the sample plate, forming a two dimensional array from the intensity data, and unfolding the two-dimensional array into a one dimensional column array; forming a two-dimensional array from the column arrays for each sample well on the sample plate; mathematically inverting the two-dimensional array; unfolding the image data to form a one dimensional matrix; and multiplying the unfolded image data by the inverted two-dimensional array. 27. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of correcting the image data for cross-talk comprises: for each sample well in a first set of selected sample wells on a sample plate, filling the sample well with a luminescent compound, imaging the sample plate; collecting the intensity data for the sample plate; forming a two dimensional array from the intensity values and unfolding the two-dimensional array into a one dimensional column array; for each of the remaining sample wells on the sample plate, interpolating intensity data from the intensity data collected for the first set of selected sample wells, forming a two dimensional array from the interpolated intensity values and unfolding the two-dimensional array into a one dimensional column array; forming a two-dimensional array from the column arrays for each sample well; inverting the two-dimensional array; unfolding the image data to form a one dimensional matrix; and multiplying the unfolded image data by the inverted two-dimensional array. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the sample tray comprises 384 sample wells arranged in 16 rows and 24 columns, the method further comprising collecting intensity data for the 96 sample wells in rows 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12, 14, 16 and in columns 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24 and interpolating the intensity data for the remaining wells. 29. The method of claim 20, wherein the plurality of luminescent samples each comprise more than one luminescent reagent, each reagent adapted to emit luminescent emissions over a different wavelength spectrum, the method further comprising, for each reagent: collecting image data using an optical bandpass filter, wherein the optical bandpass filter is adapted to maximize the sensitivity of the charge coupled device to emissions from the reagent; and determining the contribution to the image data of the luminescent emissions from each of the reagents. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the step of determining the contribution of the luminescent emissions from each of the reagents comprises: a) for each combination of luminescent reagent and optical bandpass filter, filling each sample well on a sample plate with a sample comprising the luminescent reagent as the sole luminescent reagent, imaging the sample plate using the optical bandpass filter and the total emission filter as a reference, and collecting the image data; b) normalizing the bandpass filter intensity by the total emission filter intensity; c) generating a set of simultaneous equations for the image data for the multi-reagent samples as measured through each filter as a function of the contribution to the image data of each of the individual reagents, wherein the image data collected in (a) and normalized in (b) for each combination of luminescent reagent and filter form the respective coefficients for the contribution of each of the luminescent reagents; and c) solving the set of simultaneous equations for the contribution of each of the reagents. 