Systems and methods for performing robotically-assisted surgical procedures on a patient enable an image display device to provide an operator with auxiliary information related to the surgical procedure, in addition to providing an image of the surgical site itself. The systems and methods allow an operator to selectively access and reference auxiliary information on the image display device during the performance of a surgical procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a surgical procedure on a patient, the method comprising: positioning a surgical work station of a robotically controlled surgical system and a patient on which a surgical procedure is to be performed in close proximity relative to each other; directing a field of view of an image caprute device of the surgical work station at a surgical site on the patient, at which site the surgical procedure is to be performed; introducing at least one robotically controlled surgical instrument on the surgical work station to the surgical site so that an end effector of the surgical instrument is within the field of view of the image capture device; displaying an image of the surgical site and the end effector on a display area of an image display at an operator control station of the surgical system, the image display being operatively connected to the image capture device so as to display on the display area the image of the surgical site and the end effector captured by the image capture device; permitting an operator of the surgical system to effect a manipulation of a linkage of a master control in three dimensions at the operator control station whilst viewing the image of the surgical site on the image display, the master control being operatively associated with the surgical instrument thereby to cause the end effector to move in response to the manipulation of the linkage of the master control so as to perform at least part of the surgical procedure on the patient at the surgical site; operatively linking the image display to a source of selectively accessible auxiliary information related to the surgical procedure to be performed; enabling the operator selecibely to access the source of auxiliary information from the operator control station so as to forward the auxiliary information to the image display; causing the auxiliary information to be displayed across the display area of the image display in response to the operator selectively accessing the source of auxiliary information at the operator control station; and enabling the operator selectively to move the auxiliary information when displayed on the image display relative to the image of the surgical site displayed on the image display; wherein the master control is operatively linked with the source of auxiliatry information, said enabling the operator selectively to access the source of auxiliary information comprising permitting toe operator selectively to disassociate the master control from the surgical instrument and to use the master control to access the source of auxiliary information in response to the manipulation of the linkage so as to enable the auxiliary information to be displayed on the display area of the image display. 2. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said enabling the operator selectively to access the source of auxiliary information comprises causing an icon to be displayed on the display area of the image display so that the operator can selectively access the auxiliary information by actuating the icon. 3. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 2, wherein the master control is operatively linked with the source of auxiliary information, said enabling the operator selectively to access the source of auxiliary information comprising permitting the operator selectively to disassociate the master control from the surgical instrument and to move the master control so as to guide a cursor displayed on the display area of the image display onto the icon so as to actuate the icon thereby to cause the auxiliary information to be displayed on the display area of the image display. 4. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the master control is operatively linked to the auxiliary information when displayed on the display area of the image display so as to enable the operator to move the auxiliary information displayed on the image display relative to the image of the surgical site displayed on the image display by moving the master control. 5. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 4, wherein the master control is operatively linked to the auxiliary information, when displayed on the display area of the image display, through a transform of at least two dimensions to enable the auxiliary information to be displaced across the surface of the display area by changing the transform in response to movement of the master control. 6. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 1, wherein said causing the auxiliary information to be displayed on the image display comprises causing the auxiliary information to be displayed across a discrete area extending across part of the display area of the image display, the image of the surgical site being displayed across the rest of the display area. 7. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 6, wherein the image of the surgical site is caused to be displayed across a discrete area generally centrally disposed relative to the display area of the image display and the auxiliary information is caused to be displayed across a discrete area surrounding the area across which the image of the surgical site is displayed. 8. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 6, wherein the master control is operatively linked to the auxiliary information when selectively displayed on the display area of the image display so as to enable the operator to move the auxiliary information displayed on the image display relative to the image of the surgical site displayed on the image display by moving the master control. 9. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 8, wherein the dimensions of the discrete area across which the auxiliary information is displayed can be varied by manipulation of the master control. 10. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 6, wherein the auxiliary information is caused to be displayed within the bounds of a window extending across part of the display area of the image display, the image of the surgical site being displayed across the rest of the display area. 11. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 10, wherein the master control is operatively linked to the auxiliary information when selectively displayed on the display area of the image display so as to enable the operator to move the window in which the auxiliary information is displayed on the image display relative to the image of the surgical site displayed on the image display by moving the master control. 12. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 11, wherein the dimensions of the window can be changed relative to the image of the surgical site by manipulation of the master control. 13. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 1, wherein the auxiliary information is in the form of a three-dimensional model corresponding to the surgical site, said causing the auxiliary information to be displayed on the image display comprising causing the three-dimensional model to be mixed into the image of the surgical site so as to merge with the image of the surgical site. 14. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 13, wherein the master control is operatively linked to the auxiliary information when selectively displayed on the display area of the image display so as to enable the operator to move the three-dimensional model displayed on the image display relative to the image of the surgical site displayed on the image display by moving the master control. 15. A method of performing a surgical procedure as claimed in claim 14, wherein accessing the auxiliary information includes forwarding the information to the image display through a transform of at least three dimensions. 16. A method of performing a surgical procedure on a patient, the method comprising: manipulating a linkage of a master control in three dimensions whilst viewing a real time image of a surgical site on an image display; moving an end effector in response to the manipulation of the linkage of the master control, said end effector visible on said image display, so as to perform at least part of a surgical procedure at the surgical site; selectively accessing a source of auxiliary information in response to the manipulation of the linkage of the master control; and displaying the auxiliary information on the image display, wherein the master control is operatively associated with the end effector to cause the end effector to move in response to the manipulating of the master control, and wherein the selectively accessing the source of auxiliary information comprises disassociating the master control from the end effector. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, further comprising causing the end effector to remain stationary while the master control is operatively disassociated therefrom. 18. A method as claimed in claim 16, further comprising causing a cursor to be generated on the image display so that the master control can be selectively used to access the source of auxiliary information. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the source of auxiliary information is represented by an icon displayed on the image display, said accessing the source of auxiliary information comprising moving the cursor across the image display in response to manipulation of the master control and actuating the icon by at least having the position of the cursor correspond with the position of the icon. 20. A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein actuating the icon comprises manipulation of the master control. 21. A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the auxiliary information is caused to be displayed on the image display in response to actuating the icon. 22. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein causing the auxiliary information to be displayed on the image display comprises displaying the auxiliary information in a discrete window on the image display. 23. A method as claimed in claim 22, which further comprises varying the position of the discrete window across the image display. 24. A method as claimed in claim 23, wherein varying the position of the discrete window across the image display comprises manipulating the master control. 25. A method as claimed in claim 22, which further comprises varying the dimensions of the discrete window on the image display. 26. A method as claimed in claim 25, wherein varying the dimensions of the discrete window on the image display comprises manipulating the master control. 27. A method as claimed in claim 22, which further comprises varying the orientation of the discrete window on the image display. 28. A method as claimed in claim 27, wherein varying the orientation of the discrete window on the image display comprises manipulating the master control. 29. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information at the source of auxiliary information is selected from the group consisting of any one or more of a CAT scan image, an MRI image, an X-ray image, and an ultrasonic image. 30. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information at the source of auxiliary information is selected from the group consisting of any one or more of an ECG signal, a blood pressure signal, and a heartbeat signal. 31. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information at the source of auxiliary information is selected from the group consisting of any one or more of a warning message, a clock indicating time, an e-mail service, a temperature reading, oxygen levels in a patient's blood, and a remote computer. 32. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information at the source of auxiliary information is selected from the group consisting of any one or more of a streaming video corresponding to a surgical procedure to be performed, generic anatomical images, and patient specific anatomical images. 33. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information at the source of auxiliary information is selected from the group consisting of any one or more of a three dimensional model, raw volumetric images, a computer generated model, and a computer generated image. 34. A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information at the source of auxiliary information is selected from the group consisting of any one or both of images of surgical instrument shaft locations and images of entry port locations through which surgical instruments extend. 35. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information is in the form of an auxiliary image corresponding to the surgical site at which it is desired to perform the surgical procedure, said causing the auxiliary information to be displayed on the image display comprising at least generally merging the auxiliary image with the image of the surgical site so that the images are superimposed and are both visible on the image display. 36. A method as claimed in claim 35, further comprising capturing the auxiliary image corresponding to the surgical site by means of any one of the methods selected from the group consisting of X-ray, MRI, ultrasound and CAT scan. 37. A method as claimed in claim 35, which comprises capturing the auxiliary image prior to performing the surgical procedure at the surgical site and loading the auxiliary image into a memory thereby to create the source of auxiliary information. 38. A method as claimed in claim 35, in which the auxiliary image is in the form of a real-time image captured during the surgical procedure, said at least generally merging the auxiliary image with the image of the surgical site comprising at least generally merging the real-time auxiliary image with the image of the surgical site. 39. A method as claimed in claim 35, further comprising bringing the auxiliary image at least generally into registration with the image of the surgical site. 40. A method as claimed in claim 39, wherein said bringing the auxiliary image at least generally into registration with the image of the surgical site comprises manipulating the master control. 41. A method as claimed in claim 39, wherein said bringing the auxiliary image at least generally into registration with the image of the surgical site comprises causing the auxiliary image automatically to be brought into registration with the image of the surgical site. 42. A method as claimed in claim 39, wherein said bringing the auxiliary image into registration with the image of the surgical site comprises manipulating the master control to bring the auxiliary image generally into register with the surgical site and then causing the auxiliary image to be brought into more accurate registration without further movement of the master control. 43. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information comprises an image of the surgical site which is more panoramic than the real time image of the surgical site, said displaying the auxiliary image on the image display comprising displaying the auxiliary information so as to extend around a periphery of the real-time image of the surgical site. 44. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information comprises an image corresponding to a constraint, or barrier, the method further comprising at least generally merging the image of the constraint with the image of the surgical site so that the images are superimposed with each other, the image of the constraint being arranged to indicate that movement of the end effector through the image of the constraint is either to be avoided or not possible. 45. A method as claimed in claim 44, which further comprises moving the image of the constraint relative to the image of the surgical site. 46. A method as claimed in claim 45, wherein the master control can be selectively operatively associated with the image of the constraint, said moving the image of the constraint relative to the image of the surgical site comprising manipulating the master control to place the image of the constraint relative to the image of the surgical site in a location corresponding to a position beyond which the surgeon desires not to move any surgical tool. 47. A method as claimed in claim 44, wherein the constraint has a predetermined shape selected from the group consisting of a virtual wall, a virtual shape corresponding to part of the surface of a sphere and a virtual multi-planar shape. 48. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the real-time image of the surgical site is captured by an image capture device, the source of auxiliary information being in the form of another image capture device positioned to capture an image related to the surgical procedure from a vantage point different to a vantage point from which the real-time image of the surgical site is captured, the method further comprising capturing and displaying an auxiliary image from the other image capture device on the image display together with the image of the real-time surgical site. 49. A method as claimed in claim 48, wherein capturing the auxiliary image comprises capturing an auxiliary image directed along a shaft on which the end effector is mounted. 50. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the auxiliary information comprises a horizon bar indicating to the surgeon the general orientation of the image relative to gravity. 51. A method for preparing for or performing a robotic surgical procedure at a surgical site on a patient, the method comprising: displaying information relevant to the surgical procedure on an image display of the robotic surgical system; manipulating a linkage of a master control of the robotic surgical system in three dimensions while viewing the image display; moving an end effector of the robotic surgical system in response to the manipulation of the linkage of the master control so as to prepare for or perform at least part of a surgical procedure at the surgical site when the robotic surgical system is in a first operating mode; and changing the displayed information on the image display of the robotic surgical system in response to the manipulation of the linkage of the master control when the robotic surgical system is in a second operating mode. 52. The method of claim 51, further comprising capturing an image of the surgical site with an image capture device and displaying the captured image on the image display, wherein the displayed information comprises auxiliary information, and wherein the changing step comprises moving the auxiliary information with at least two degrees of freedom across the image display. 53. A system for performing a surgical procedure at a surgical site on a patient, the system comprising: a master having an input device, a linkage of the input device configured for manipulation by a hand of a system operator so as to define a manipulation in three dimensions; a surgical end effector; an image display for displaying information relevant to the surgical procedure; and a processor coupling the input device to the end effector and the image display, the processor having first and second operating modes, the processor in the first operating mode effecting movement of the end effector in response to the manipulation of the input device, the processor in the second operating mode changing the displayed information in response to the manipulation of the input device. 