A method for performing operations and for improving production in a well includes the steps of: locating a process tool at a required depth in the well, placing a reader device in the well proximate to the process tool, and then transporting an identification device through the well past the reader device to actuate the reader device and control the tool. The reader device includes a transmitter configured to transmit rf signals to the identification device, a receiver configured to receive a unique rf code signal from the identification device, and a control circuit configured to control the tool responsive to reception of the unique rf code signal. In a first embodiment the tool comprises a casing conveyed perforating tool and a perforating process is performed. In a second embodiment the tool comprises a tubing conveyed packer setting tool and a packer setting process is performed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing an operation in a well comprising: positioning a process tool in the well; positioning a first device in the well configured to control the process tool, said first device comprising a radio frequency transmitter configured to provide rf signals for reception by a second device and a receiver configured to receive a signal from the second device; transporting the second device which is configured to transmit a signal to the first device through the well proximate to the first device; and controlling the process tool responsive to the first device receiving the signal from the second device during the transporting step. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the second device comprises a radio identification device and the signal comprises an rf signal. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the process tool comprises a perforating tool or a packer setting tool. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein during the transporting step the second device is transported through a casing or through a tubing string of the well. 5. A method for performing an operation in a well comprising: providing a process tool in a well, said process tool being configured to perform an operation; providing a first device in the well in signal communication with the process tool and configured to transmit and receive rf signals; transporting a second device through the well proximate to the first device, said second device configured to generate a unique rf signal responsive to radio frequency signals from the first device; and controlling the process tool responsive to reception of the unique rf signal by the first device during the transporting step. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the first device comprises a radio frequency reader device. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the second device comprises a radio frequency identification device. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the process tool comprises a casing conveyed perforating tool. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the process tool comprises a tubing conveyed packer setting tool. 10. A method for performing an operation in a well comprising: locating a process tool at a required depth within a well; providing a reader device in the well in signal communication with the process tool and configured to transmit and receive rf signals; providing an identification device configured to generate a unique code signal responsive to transmission signals from the reader device; programming the reader device to transmit a control signal to the process tool upon reception of the unique code signal from the identification device; transporting the identification device through the well past the reader device; and transmitting the control signal to control the process tool upon reception of the unique code signal from the identification device. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the locating step comprises attaching the process tool to a tubular and placing the tubular at the required depth. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the locating step comprises conveying the process tool to the required depth on a casing of the well. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the locating step comprises conveying the process tool to the required depth on a tubing string of the well. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein the transporting step is performed by gravity. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein the transporting step is performed by a mechanism selected from the group consisting of a pump, a robot and a parachute. 16. A method for performing an operation in a well comprising: providing a first process tool at a first depth in the well and a second process tool at a second depth in the well; providing a first reader device in the well configured to control the first process tool and a second reader device in the well configured to control the second process tool; transporting a first radio identification device through the well proximate to the first reader device, and a second identification device through the well proximate to the second reader device, the first identification device configured to transmit a first code signal to the first reader device, and the second identification device configured to transmit a second code signal to the second reader device; controlling the first process tool responsive to the first reader device receiving the first code signal during the transporting step; and controlling the second process tool responsive to the second reader device receiving the second code signal during the transporting step. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the first identification device and the second identification device comprise a single radio identification device. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the first process tool and the second process tool comprise perforating tools. 19. A method for performing a perforating process in a well comprising: providing a casing in the well having an outside diameter and an inside diameter; providing a perforating tool on the outside diameter of the casing; providing a first device in the well configured to control the perforating tool; providing a second device configured to transmit a code signal to the first device; transporting the second device through the inside diameter of the casing proximate to the first device; and controlling the perforating tool responsive to the first device receiving the code signal from the second device during the transporting step. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising conveying the perforating tool to a selected depth in the well on the casing. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the first device is attached to the casing proximate to the perforating tool. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein the first device is attached to the perforating tool. 23. A method for performing a perforating process in a well having well casing positioned therein, the method comprising: providing a perforating tool in the well configured to perforate the well casing; providing a first device in the well in signal communication with the perforating tool and configured to transmit and receive rf signals; providing a second device configured to generate a unique rf code signal responsive to rf signals from the first device; transporting the second device through the casing proximate to the first device; and controlling the perforating tool responsive to reception of the unique rf code signal by the first device during the transporting step. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein providing the perforating tool comprises attaching the perforating tool to an outside diameter of the casing. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein providing the well casing comprises lowering a plurality of attached tubulars into the well, and providing the perforating tool comprises attaching the perforating tool to at least one of the tubulars. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein the perforating tool is configured to perforate the casing from an outside diameter thereof. 27. A method for performing a perforating process in a well bore having casing positioned therein comprising: providing a perforating tool on the outside diameter of the casing by attaching the perforating tool to at least one of a plurality of tubulars that comprise the casing; providing a reader device on the casing configured to control the perforating tool; providing an identification device configured to transmit a unique rf code signal to the reader device; transporting the identification device through the inside diameter of the casing proximate to the reader device; and actuating the perforating tool to perforate the casing responsive to the reader device receiving the unique rf code signal from the identification device during the transporting step. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein providing the reader device comprises providing a collar for the tubulars comprising an electrically non conductive window and attaching the reader device to the collar proximate to the window. 29. The method of claim 27 wherein the transporting step is performed by pumping a fluid through the inside diameter of the casing. 30. The method of claim 27 wherein the transporting step is performed by dropping the reader device by gravity through the inside diameter of the casing. 31. The method of claim 27 wherein the transporting step is performed by attaching the reader device to a robot and moving the robot through the inside diameter of the casing. 32. A method for performing a perforating process in a well comprising: attaching a perforating tool to an outside diameter of a tubular, said perforating tool comprising a plurality of charge assemblies and a reader device configured to initiate a detonation sequence for the charge assemblies; attaching the tubular to a plurality of tubulars and lowering the tubular with the perforating tool attached thereto to a selected depth in the well to form a well casing; transporting an identification device through the well casing proximate to the reader device, said identification device configured to transmit a unique code signal to the reader device; transmitting the unique code signal to the reader device during the transporting step; and initiating the detonation sequence to perforate the casing responsive to reception of the unique code signal by the reader device. 33. The method of claim 32 further comprising attaching a second perforating tool to the casing and transmitting a second identification device through the casing to initiate detonation of the second perforating tool. 34. The method of claim 32 wherein the casing comprises a coupling for attaching the perforating tool comprising an electrically non conductive window for the reader device. 35. The method of claim 32 wherein the identification device comprises a radio identification device and the unique code signal comprises an rf signal. 36. The method of claim 32 wherein the perforating tool comprises a hydraulic detonator and a perforating gun configured to establish fluid communication between the hydraulic detonator and the well casing during the detonation sequence. 37. The method of claim 32 further comprising providing a valve in the casing and closing the valve responsive to reception of the unique code signal by the reader device. 38. The method of claim 32 further comprising providing a valve in the casing responsive to a pressure generated by detonation of the charge assemblies and sealing the casing using the valve. 39. A system for performing an operation in a well comprising: a process tool located at a selected depth within the well; an identification device configured for transport through the well proximate to the process tool, and configured to transmit an rf code signal upon reception of rf transmission signals; and a reader device in the well comprising a transmitter configured to transmit the rf transmission signals, a receiver configured to receive the rf code signal from the identification device, and a control circuit configured to control the process tool responsive to reception of the rf code signal by the receiver. 40. The system of claim 39 wherein reader device is attached to the process tool. 41. The system of claim 39 wherein the well comprises a casing and the process tool is attached to the casing. 42. The system of claim 39 wherein the well comprises a casing and the reader device is attached to the casing. 43. A system for performing an operation in a well comprising: a well casing; a tool attached to the casing at a selected depth within the well; a reader device attached to the well casing, or to the tool, the reader device in signal communication with the tool and configured to transmit and receive rf signals and to control the tool responsive to reception of a unique rf signal; and an identification device configured for transport through the casing and to generate the unique rf signal responsive to the rf signals from the reader device. 44. The system of claim 43 wherein the reader device comprises a transmitter for transmitting the rf signals, a receiver for receiving the unique rf signal, and a control circuit for controlling the tool. 45. The system of claim 44 wherein the tool comprises a perforating tool attached to an outside diameter of the casing. 46. The system of claim 45 further comprising a valve on the casing responsive to pressure generated during detonation of the perforating tool. 47. The system of claim 46 further comprising a perforating gun in signal communication with the reader device and configured to perforate the casing to initiate a detonation sequence for the perforating tool. 48. A system for performing a perforating process in a well comprising: a well casing having an inside diameter and an outside diameter; a perforating tool attached to the outside diameter comprising a charge assembly configured to perforate the well casing; an identification device configured for transport through the inside diameter and configured to generate a unique rf signal; a reader device on the tool, or on the casing proximate to the tool, the reader device comprising a receiver for receiving the unique rf signal, and a control circuit for controlling the charge assembly responsive to reception of the unique rf signal. 49. The system of claim 48 further comprising a collar configured to attach the reader device to the casing comprising an electrically non conductive material to permit signal transmission between the reader device and the identification device. 50. The system of claim 48 further comprising a valve on the casing configured to seal the casing upon detonation of the charge assembly. 51. The system of claim 48 wherein the perforating tool comprises a hydraulic detonator operable by fluid pressure transmitted through the inside diameter of the casing. 52. The system of claim 48 wherein the perforating tool comprises a hydraulic detonator operable by fluid pressure transmitted through the inside diameter of the casing and a perforating gun configured to perforate the casing to establish fluid communication between the hydraulic detonator and the casing. 53. A system for performing a perforating process in a well comprising: a well casing; a perforating tool attached to the casing comprising a charge assembly configured to perforate the casing and a hydraulic detonator assembly configured to detonate the charge assembly; a perforating gun attached to the casing configured to perforate the casing to establish fluid communication between the casing and the hydraulic detonator; a detonator on the casing configured to fire the perforating gun; an identification device configured for transport through the casing proximate to the tool, and configured to transmit an rf code signal upon reception of rf transmission signals; and a reader device on the tool comprising a transmitter configured to transmit the rf transmission signals, a receiver configured to receive the rf code signal from the identification device, and a control circuit configured to actuate the detonator to fire the perforating gun responsive to reception of the rf code signal by the receiver. 54. The system of claim 53 further comprising a pressure tank on the casing operable by pressure generated during detonation of the perforating tool and a valve on the casing operable by the pressure tank. 55. The system of claim 54 wherein the valve comprises a flapper valve within the casing. 56. The system of claim 55 wherein the reader device comprises a transmitter for transmitting the rf signals, a receiver for receiving the rf code signal, and a control circuit for transmitting a control signal to the perforating gun. 57. The system of claim 56 further comprising a collar configured to attach the reader device to the casing comprising an electrically non conductive material to permit signal transmission between the reader device and the identification device. 58. The system of claim 57 wherein the electrically non conductive material comprises a plastic window. 59. A method for improving production in an oil or gas well comprising: providing a process tool in the well configured to perform the operation; providing a first device in the well in signal communication with the process tool and configured to transmit and receive rf signals; providing a second device configured to generate a unique rf signal responsive to rf signals from the first device; programming the first device to control the process tool upon reception of the unique rf signal from the second device; transporting the second device through the well proximate to the first device; and controlling the process tool responsive to reception of the unique rf signal by the first device during the transporting step. 60. The method of claim 59 wherein the first device comprises a radio frequency reader device. 61. The method of claim 59 wherein the second device comprises a radio frequency identification device. 62. The method of claim 59 wherein the process tool comprises a casing conveyed perforating tool. 63. The method of claim 59 wherein the process tool comprises a tubing conveyed packer setting tool. 64. A method for performing an operation in a well having a process tool and a reader device positioned therein, said reader device being in signal communication with the process tool and configured to transmit and receive rf signals, the method comprising: transporting an identification device through the well, said identification device being configured to generate a unique rf code signal responsive to transmission signals from the reader device. 65. The method of claim 64 further comprising: transmitting a control signal from the reader device to the process tool upon reception of the unique rf code signal from the identification device so as to control the process tool. 