A method of immersing a substrate into electrolyte solution for electroplating, the method comprising connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in the electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate. A first voltage level of the seed layer is biased to be equal to, or more positive than, a second voltage level of the anode. The substrate is then immersed into the electrolyte solution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of immersing a substrate into an electrolyte solution for electroplating, the method comprising: connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in the electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; immersing the substrate into the electrolyte solution; and biasing the seed layer with a positive voltage relative to the anode as the substrate is being immersed into the electrolyte solution. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising rotating the substrate as the substrate is immersed into the electrolyte solution. 3. A method of immersing a substrate into an electrolyte solution for electroplating, the method comprising: connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in the electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; biasing a first voltage level of the seed layer to be equal to or more positive than a second voltage level of the anode, wherein the first voltage level is applied to the seed layer and the second voltage level is applied to the seed layer after the substrate is immersed in the electrolyte solution; and immersing the substrate into the electrolyte solution. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the positive voltage is configured to limit the deposition of a metal film on the seed layer. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the biasing step comprises biasing the seed layer with the positive voltage for less than about 30 seconds. 6. A computer readable medium containing a program that, when executed, performs an operation comprising: connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in the electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; immersing the substrate into the electrolyte solution; and biasing the seed layer with a positive voltage relative to the anode as the substrate is being immersed into the electrolyte solution. 7. A method of electroplating a substrate, comprising: connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in an electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; biasing the electric source to a reverse voltage bias in which a first voltage level of the seed layer equals or is more positive than a second voltage level of the anode; immersing the substrate into the electrolyte solution; and biasing the electric source to a plating voltage bias in which the voltage level of the anode equals or exceeds the voltage level of the seed layer. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: biasing the electric source to a second reverse voltage bias in which a third voltage level of the seed layer equals or is more positive than a fourth voltage level of the anode; and removing the seed layer from the electrolyte solution. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising rotating the substrate as the substrate is immersed into the electrolyte solution. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising selectively controlling biasing the voltage of the electric source. 11. A computer readable medium containing a program that, when executed, performs an operation comprising: connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in the electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; applying a first reverse bias voltage in which a voltage level of the seed layer is equal to or more positive than a voltage level of the anode; immersing the substrate into the electrolyte solution; and applying a plating voltage in which the voltage level of the anode exceeds the voltage level of the seed layer. 12. The computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the operation further comprises: applying a second reverse bias voltage in which the voltage level of the seed layer is equal to or more positive than the voltage level of the anode; and removing the substrate from the electrolyte solution. 13. The computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the operation further comprises rotating the substrate as the substrate is being immersed into the electrolyte solution. 14. A method of removing a substrate from electrolyte solution, comprising: connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in the electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; biasing a first voltage level of the seed layer to be equal or more positive than a second voltage level of the anode; immersing the substrate into the electrolyte solution; biasing a third voltage level of the seed layer to be more negative than a fourth voltage level of the anode; biasing a fifth voltage level of the seed layer to equals or more positive than a sixth voltage level of the anode; and removing the substrate from the electrolyte solution. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the voltage level of the anode equals or exceeds the voltage level of the seed layer after the substrate is immersed in the electrolyte solution but before the substrate is removed from the electrolyte solution to enhance the electric current density applied to the seed layer. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein after the changing the biasing after the substrate is immersed in the electrolyte solution, the voltage level of the seed layer equals or exceeds the voltage level of the anode by an amount sufficient to limit the deposition of a metal film on the seed layer. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein after the changing the biasing after the substrate is immersed in the electrolyte solution, the voltage level of the seed layer equals or exceeds the voltage level of the anode by an amount sufficient to limit the variation of the electric current density applied across the seed layer. 18. An electroplating system for plating a substrate, comprising: an electric source configured to be connected between an anode immersed in an electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; a controller configured to control electric biasing of the electric source to a reverse voltage bias in which a first voltage level of the seed layer equals or is more positive than a second voltage level of the anode; and a substrate holder system configured to immerse the substrate into the electrolyte solution, wherein following immersion, the controller is configured to bias the electric source to a plating voltage bias in which the voltage level of the anode equals or exceeds the voltage level of the seed layer. 19. The electroplating system of claim 18, wherein following immersion, the controller is configured to control the electric source to apply a second reverse bias voltage in which the voltage level of the seed layer is equal to or is more positive than the voltage level of the anode. 20. The electroplating system of claim 19, wherein the substrate holder system is configured to remove the substrate from the electrolyte solution following the application of the second reverse bias voltage. 21. The electroplating system of claim 18, wherein the substrate holder system is configured to rotate the substrate as the substrate is immersed into the electrolyte solution. 22. A method of electroplating a substrate, comprising: applying a reverse bias voltage between one or more electric contacts and an anode immersed in an electrolyte solution containing metal ions as the substrate is being immersed into the electrolyte solution, the electric contacts being configured to provide electrical bias to a seed layer formed on the substrate; and applying a plating voltage to the contacts following immersion. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein a polarity of the reverse bias voltage is opposite of a polarity of the plating voltage. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the reverse bias voltage represents a positive voltage relative to the anode and the plating voltage represents a negative voltage relative to the anode. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein the reverse bias voltage is configured to limit the metal ions from depositing on the electric contacts while the substrate is being immersed into the electrolyte solution. 26. The method of claim 22, further comprising applying the reverse bias voltage between the contacts and the anode as the substrate is removed from the electrolyte solution. 27. The method of claim 22, wherein applying the reverse bias voltage comprises applying the reverse bias voltage for less than about 30 seconds. 28. A method of electroplating a substrate, comprising: connecting an electric source between an anode immersed in an electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; applying a first reverse bias voltage in which a voltage level of the seed layer is equal to or more positive than a voltage level of the anode; immersing the substrate into the electrolyte solution; and applying a plating voltage in which the voltage level of the anode exceeds the voltage level of the seed layer. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising: applying a second reverse bias voltage in which the voltage level of the seed layer is equal to or more positive than the voltage level of the anode; and removing the substrate from the electrolyte solution. 30. An electroplating system for plating a substrate, comprising: an electric source configured to be connected between an anode immersed in an electrolyte solution and a seed layer formed on the substrate; a controller configured to control the electric source to apply a reverse bias voltage in which a voltage level of the seed layer is equal to or more positive than a voltage level of the anode; and a substrate holder system configured to immerse the substrate into the electrolyte solution, wherein following immersion, the electric source is configured to apply a plating voltage in which the voltage level of the anode exceeds the voltage level of the seed layer. 