A method and apparatus for cleaning the interior of capillary tubes used to dispense 1 to 100 micron diameter liquid droplets by a piezoelectric transducer surrounding each capillary tube. Magnetic particles are aspirated into the capillary tubes and moved by an exterior magnet to cause deposits on the interior walls to be dislodged and subsequently discharged from the capillary tube. In a preferred embodiment, the magnetic particles are coated with a material capable of binding such deposits, e.g., DNA, RNA, and the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of removing deposits adhering to the interior walls of a capillary tube having inner and outer walls: (a) aspirating into said capillary tube a liquid containing magnetic particles having a size smaller than said capillary tube inner wall; (b) positioning a magnet outside said capillary tube for attaching said magnetic particles of (a) to positions adjacent said inner wall; (c) moving said magnet relative to said capillary or said capillary relative to said magnet, thereby causing said magnetic particles to move adjacent to said inner wall and loosen said deposits; and (d) discharging said liquid containing said magnetic particles and said deposits loosened from said inner wall. 2. A method of claim 1, wherein said magnetic particles have a nominal diameter of about 0.2 to 4 .mu.m. 3. A method of claim 1, wherein said capillary tube has a piezoelectric transducer mounted on the exterior of said tip. 4. A method of claim 3, wherein said discharging of step (d) is carried out while activating said piezoelectric transducer. 5. A method of claim 1, wherein said aspirating of step (a) is carried out by applying a negative pressure within said capillary tube. 6. A method of claim 1, wherein said discharging of step (d) is carried out by applying a positive pressure within said capillary tube. 7. A method of claim 1, wherein said magnetic particles are coated with a material capable of binding said deposits. 8. A method of claim 7, wherein said magnetic particles bind said deposits loosened from said inner wall. 9. A method of claim 1, further comprising flushing said capillary tube with a wash fluid during step (c). 