A method of making microelectronic assemblies includes temporarily securing one or more microelectronic elements in place on one or more components using one or more temporary securements extending between the microelectronic elements and components and adhering to the elements and components. Conductive features of the elements are connected to conductive features of the components and the temporary securements are released.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making microelectronic assemblies comprising the steps of: (a) temporarily securing one or more microelectronic elements in place on one or more components by providing one or more temporary securements extending between said one or more microelectronic elements and said one or more components and adhering to said one or more microelectronic elements and to said one or more components; then (b) connecting conductive features of said one or more microelectronic elements to conductive features of said one or more components; and (c) releasing said temporary securements during or after the step (b). 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said conductive features are disposed on front faces of said one or more microelectronic elements and on first surfaces of said one or more components, said temporary securing step is performed so that said front faces of said one or more microelectronic elements confront said first surfaces of said one or more components, said conductive features are aligned with one another and said temporary securements extend between said confronting surfaces. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said step of releasing said temporary securements includes applying heat to said elements, said components or both. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said step of connecting said conductive features to one another includes the step of urging said microelectronic elements and said one or more components toward one another and said temporary securements deform so as to permit movement of said microelectronic elements and said one or more components toward one another. 5. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said temporary securements include an organic material. 6. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said conductive features include leads, the method further comprising the step of moving said one or more microelectronic elements away from said one or more components to thereby deform said leads, said temporary securements being released from adhesion to at least one of said confronting surfaces or destroyed during or before said moving step. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein said temporary securements include an adhesive extending between said one or more microelectronic elements and a set of said leads. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein said leads included in said set have tip ends releasably attached to said one or more components to thereby provide releasable attachments between the tip ends of said leads in said set and said one or more components, and said adhesive connects said tip ends of said leads in said set, said temporary securements including the releasable attachments between the tip ends of said leads in said set and said one or more components, said releasable attachments between the tip ends of said leads in said set and said one or more components being broken by release of said releasable attachments during said moving step. 9. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein said one or more microelectronic elements includes a plurality of separately-formed microelectronic elements and said temporary securing step is performed so as to position more than one of said microelectronic elements on each of said components. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said connecting step includes directing radiant energy onto said microelectronic elements. 11. A method as claimed in claim 9 further comprising the step of disposing a flexible film over said microelectronic elements after said temporary securing step but before said connecting step so that during said connecting step, said microelectronic elements are disposed in a working space between said film and said one or more components. 12. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of connecting said conductive features to one another includes the step of applying heat to said conductive features, said temporary securements being released from adhesion to at least one of said confronting surfaces or destroyed by said application of heat. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of applying an encapsulant around said conductive features and bringing said encapsulant to an elevated temperature, said temporary securements being released from adhesion to at least one of said confronting surfaces or destroyed at said elevated temperature. 