A robot for performing substantially autonomous movement includes a processing device, a memory, and a mobility structure controlled by the processing device. The processor directs the robot to move with any predetermined safe area having a boundary and a reference point. Optionally, the robot also exhibits features of social interactivity by accepting an input from a human, selecting dynamic content from a data base wherein the dynamic content is responsive to the input, and presenting the human with a response corresponding to the dynamic content selection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, mobile mechanical apparatus, comprising: a processing device; a memory that is in communication with the processing device; a mobility structure that moves the apparatus and is controlled by the processing device; and at least one sensor for measuring an amount of movement; wherein the memory contains computer program instructions that are instructing the processor to direct the apparatus to move within a predetermined safe area having a boundary and a reference point. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the computer program instructions are further instructing the processor to, upon receipt of a command, adjust the boundary or the reference point. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer program instructions are further instructing the processor to direct the apparatus to stop or turn if the apparatus moves to a point that is substantially on the boundary. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer program instructions are further instructing the processor to direct the apparatus to refuse to follow a command to move to a point outside of the boundary. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus further comprises at least one sensor for detecting the presence of an object in the predetermined safe area, and the computer program instructions are further instructing the processor to, when one of the sensors identifies an object in the predetermined safe area, direct the mobility structure to move in a direction that is toward the object. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the at least one sensor comprises a sonar transceiver, a temperature-sensitive sensor, a vision sensor, or an infrared sensor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a physical guide path positioned to direct movement of the mobility structure. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an input device and a database of dynamic content, wherein the computer program instructions are further instructing the processor to: accept an input corresponding to a human via the input device; select a dynamic content selection from the database, wherein the dynamic content selection is responsive to the input; and present the human with a response corresponding to the dynamic content selection. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the response comprises at least one of movement, an audio response, a light display, a text message, a visual image, and remote operation of an external device. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a receiver, and wherein the receiver is receiving a content update and the content update, when received, is stored in the database of dynamic content. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the computer program instructions further instruct the processor to modify the database of dynamic content in response to the input. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the input device comprises at least one of a touch-sensitive screen and a sensor. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a user recognition database, and wherein the computer program instructions are further instructing the processor to: accept input from humans via the input device; store data corresponding to a particular human in the user recognition database after the first time that the particular human uses the input device; and recognize the particular human during a subsequent time that the particular human uses the input device by receiving, during the subsequent time, an attribute of the particular human and comparing the attribute to information stored in the user recognition database. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a communications port, and wherein the computer program instructions are further transmitting information that is stored in the user recognition database, via the communications port through a wireless communications medium, such that the information may be received by a second apparatus. 15. A method of enabling a mobile robot to move without a requirement for substantial human intervention, comprising: defining a safe area having a boundary and a reference point, wherein the safe area is substantially free from obstacles that would restrict movement within the safe area; and directing a mobile robot having a movement device, a processor that directs the movement device, and a memory to begin movement within the safe area, wherein the memory includes computer program instructions that instruct the processor to prevent the movement divice from moving the robot outside of the safe area. 16. A mobile robot, comprising: a movement apparatus for moving the robot; a means for recognizing a location of the robot; and a means for automatically operating the movement apparatus; a means for determining whether an operation of the movement apparatus will result in movement of the robot outside of a predetermined boundary corresponding to a reference point, and restricting such movement outside of the predetermined boundary. 17. The robot of claim 16 further comprising: a means for maintaining stored dynamic content; a means for accepting input from a human; a means for selecting a dynamic content selection from the stored dynamic content, wherein the dynamic content is responsive to the input; and a means for presenting the human with a response corresponding to the dynamic content selection. 18. The robot of claim 17 further comprising a means for modifying the stored dynamic content. 19. The robot of claim 17 further comprising: a means for identifying an object human; and a means for instructing the movement apparatus to move the robot in a direction that is toward the object. 