A robot having a plurality of interconnected sections is disclosed. Each of the sections includes components which are moveable relative to components of an adjacent section. A plurality of electric motors are operably connected to at least two of said relatively moveable components to effect relative movement. A fitted, removable protective covering surrounds the sections to protect the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a) a body including a plurality of relatively moveable sections; b) prime movers each operably connected to at least two of the sections for selectively effecting relative movement of the connected sections; c) a plurality of rings carried by the body; d) two of the rings being positioned in spaced relationship respectively near opposite ends of the body; e) a flexible covering surrounding at least a portion of the body and connected to the two rings respectively near the opposite ends of the body; and, f) the covering being fitted to the body intermediate the ends and the covering includes an internal chamber. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein the covering includes a pair of internal chambers. 3. The robot of claim 2 wherein one of they chambers is inflatable and the other is evacuatable. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein the covering chamber is evacuatable. 5. The robot of claim 1 wherein the covering chamber is inflatable. 6. A process of covering a robot having a plurality of relatively moveable sections comprising: a) substantially surrounding outer surfaces of the robot by covering the robot with a flexible cover tailored to fit the robot; b) securing the cover to the robot at least near spaced ends of the robot whereby the robot is substantially covered by the cover; and, c) inflating a chamber formed in the cover. 7. The process of claim 6 further including evacuating another chamber formed in the cover. 8. A process of covering a robot having a plurality of relatively moveable sections comprising: a) substantially surrounding outer surfaces of the robot by covering the robot with a flexible cover tailored to fit the robot; b) securing the cover to the robot at least near spaced ends of the robot whereby the robot is substantially covered by the cover; and, c) evacuating a chamber formed in the cover. 