An end effector having a platform and a motor coupled to the platform for driving a drilling member. A motor housing is coupled to the platform and includes a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured thereto. The photogrammetry targets are oriented so as to be readily detectable by a photogrammetry sensor for determining the orientation of the end effector and corresponding drilling member. A pressure foot member and pneumatic cylinders are operably coupled to the platform such that the pneumatic cylinders maintain a constant pressure upon the pressure foot member to provide material clamp up. A depth control device is also provided for accurately controlling the depth of the drilling member and preventing further drilling.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A drilling end effector comprising: a platform; a motor coupled to said platform, said motor being operable to drive a drilling member; a housing coupled to said platform, said housing substantially enclosing said motor; a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured to said housing, said plurality of photogrammetry targets being oriented upon said housing so as to be readily detectable by a photogrammetry sensor for determining the orientation of the drilling end effector; a pressure foot member; and an actuator operably coupled to said platform and said pressure foot member to selectively extend said pressure foot member relative to said platform. 2. The drilling end effector according to claim 1 wherein said housing comprises: a plurality of outwardly extending support members mounted to said housing, said plurality of outwardly extending support members having at least one of said plurality of photogrammetry targets mounted thereon. 3. The drilling end effector according to claim 1, further comprising: a collet housing coupled to said pressure foot; and a vacuum attachment assembly coupled to said collet housing, said vacuum attachment assembly adapted to remove debris during a drilling operation of the drilling end effector. 4. The drilling end effector according to claim 3 wherein said vacuum attachment assembly comprises: a retaining ring portion mounted to said collet housing; a main body secured to said retaining ring portion, said main body having a hose attachment extending therefrom, said hose attachment be mountable to a vacuum; and a collar extending from said main body, said collar engageable with a part to be drilled. 5. The drilling end effector according to claim 1, further comprising: a depth control device operable to determine a relative position between said platform and said pressure foot, said depth control device including: a protruding member coupled to one of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot; and a switch member coupled to one of the other of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot, wherein said protruding member is operable to engage said switch member to provide a control signal when said platform is within a predetermined distance from said pressure foot. 6. The drilling end effector according to claim 5 wherein said protruding member is a micrometer. 7. The drilling end effector according to claim 3, further comprising: a drill bushing member secured to said collet housing, said drill bushing member operable to receive the drilling member therethrough; a lubrication source; and a first passageway extending through said drill bushing member, said passageway being in fluid communication with said lubrication source for delivering a lubrication out of said drill bushing member. 8. The drilling end effector according to claim 7, further comprising: an pressurized air source; and a second passageway extending through said drill bushing member, said passageway being in fluid communication with said pressurized air source for delivering pressurized air out of said drill bushing member. 9. The drilling end effector according to claim 8 wherein said first passageway and said second passageway are integrally connected to deliver a pressurized lubrication mist to the drilling member. 10. The drilling end effector according to claim 1, further comprising: a depth control device operable to control the depth of a machining operation, said depth control device including: a sensor member coupled to one of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot, said sensor member having a sensor mounted thereon; and an axially-adjustable member coupled to one of the one of the other of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot, said axially-adjustable member engagable with said sensor member to prevent further of said machining operation. 11. A drilling end effector comprising: a platform; a motor coupled to said platform, said motor being operable to drive a drilling member; a housing coupled to said platform, said housing substantially enclosing said motor; a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured to said housing, said plurality of photogrammetry targets being oriented upon said housing so as to be readily detectable by a photogrammetry sensor for determining the orientation of the drilling end effector; a pressure foot member; an actuator operably coupled to said platform and said pressure foot member to selectively extend said pressure foot member relative to said platform; a collet housing coupled to said pressure foot; a vacuum attachment assembly coupled to said collet housing, said vacuum attachment assembly adapted to remove debris during a drilling operation of the drilling end effector; and a depth control device operable to determine a relative position between said platform and said pressure foot. 12. The drilling end effector according to claim 11 wherein said housing comprises: a plurality of outwardly extending support members mounted to said housing, said plurality of outwardly extending support members having at least one of said plurality of photogrammetry targets mounted thereon. 13. The drilling end effector according to claim 11 wherein said vacuum attachment assembly comprises: a retaining ring portion mounted to said collet housing; a main body secured to said retaining ring portion, said main body having a hose attachment extending therefrom, said hose attachment be mountable to a vacuum; and a collar extending from said main body, said collar engageable with a part to be drilled. 14. The drilling end effector according to claim 11 wherein said depth control device comprises: a micrometer coupled to one of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot; and a switch member coupled to one of the other of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot, wherein said switch member is operable to engage said micrometer to provide a control signal when said platform is within a predetermined distance from said pressure foot. 15. The drilling end effector according to claim 11 wherein said depth control device comprises: a sensor member coupled to one of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot, said sensor member having a sensor mounted thereon; and an axially-adjustable member coupled to one of the one of the other of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot, said axially-adjustable member engagable with said sensor member to prevent further of said machining operation. 16. The drilling end effector according to claim 11, further comprising: a drill bushing member secured to said collet housing, said drill bushing member operable to receive the drilling member therethrough; a lubrication source; and a first passageway extending through said drill bushing member, said passageway being in fluid communication with said lubrication source for delivering a lubrication out of said drill bushing member. 17. The drilling end effector according to claim 16, further comprising: a pressurized air source; and a second passageway extending through said drill bushing member, said passageway being in fluid communication with said pressurized air source for delivering pressurized air out of said drill bushing member. 18. The drilling end effector according to claim 17 wherein said first passageway and said second passageway are integrally connected to deliver a pressurized lubrication mist to the drilling member. 19. A drilling apparatus for use with a robot, said drilling apparatus comprising: a platform; a motor coupled to said platform, said motor being operable to drive a drilling member; a housing coupled to said platform, said housing substantially enclosing said motor; a plurality of photogrammetry targets secured to said housing, said plurality of photogrammetry targets being oriented upon said housing so as to be readily detectable by a photogrammetry sensor for determining the orientation of the drilling end effector; a pressure foot member; an actuator operably coupled to said platform and said pressure foot member to selectively extend said pressure foot member relative to said platform; a collet housing coupled to said pressure foot; a vacuum attachment assembly coupled to said collet housing, said vacuum attachment assembly adapted to remove debris during a drilling operation of the drilling end effector; a micrometer operable to determine a relative position between said platform and said pressure foot, said micrometer coupled to one of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot; and a switch member coupled to one of the other of the group consisting essentially of said platform, said motor, and said pressure foot, said switch member outputting a control signal in response to contact from said micrometer. 20. The drilling apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising: a drill bushing member secured to said collet housing, said drill bushing member operable to receive the drilling member therethrough; a lubrication source; a first passageway extending through said drill bushing member, said passageway being in fluid communication with said lubrication source for delivering a lubrication out of said drill bushing member; a pressurized air source; and a second passageway extending through said drill bushing member, said passageway being in fluid communication with said pressurized air source for delivering pressurized air out of said drill bushing member. 