An apparatus and method which provides a suitable location for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds. The apparatus consists of: a reservoir block having a plurality of wells; a plurality of reaction tubes, usually gas dispersion tubes, having filters on their lower ends; a holder block, having a plurality of apertures; and a manifold, which may have ports to allow introduction/maintenance of a controlled environment. The manifold top wall has apertures and a detachable plate with identical apertures. The apparatus is constructed from materials which will accommodate heating, cooling, agitation, or corrosive reagents. Gaskets are placed between the components. Rods or clamps are provided for fastening the components together. Apparatus operation involves placing the filters on the lower ends of the reaction tubes in the reservoir block wells, and the upper ends passing through the holder block apertures and into the manifold. The apparatus provides in excess of 1 mg of each product with structural knowledge and control over each compound. The apparatus can be adapted to manual, semiautomatic or fully automatic performance. Using the apparatus a series of building blocks are covalently attached to a solid support. These building blocks are then modified by covalently adding additional different building blocks or chemically modifying some existing functionality until the penultimate structure is achieved. This is then cleaved from the solid support by another chemical reaction into the solution within the well yielding an array of newly synthesized individual compounds, which after postreaction modification, if necessary, are suitable for testing for activity.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of tubular members for holding reaction materials, each tubular member having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each defining a filter device; a reservoir member having means for holding reaction materials and for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of tubular members; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of tubular members; and said filter devices each having a lower portion, annular side surface portions and a hollow cavity therein. 2. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, comprising: a plurality of vessel members for holding reaction materials, each vessel member having an upper end and a lower end; a filter member formed on said lower end of each of said vessel members, said filter members each having a hollow cavity therein; a reservoir member having at least one reaction well for holding reaction materials and for receiving said lower end of said vessel members and said filter member; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member, said holder member having a plurality of apertures for holding said plurality of vessel members therein; a means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member; and means for releasably fastening together said holder member and said reservoir member. 3. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of tubular members for holding reaction materials, each tubular member having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each forming a filter device; a reservoir member having means for holding reaction materials and for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of tubular members; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of tubular members; and means for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, wherein said means for equalizing comprises at least one pressure equalization aperture located on at least one of said tubular members. 4. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end; a filter member formed on said lower ends of each of said reaction tubes; a reservoir member having a plurality of reaction wells, one of said reaction wells positioned to receive a filter member on the lower end of one of said reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member, said holder member having means for holding said plurality of reaction tubes therein; sealing means for sealing said holder member to said reservoir member; fastening means for securing together said holder member and said reservoir member; and pressure equalizing means for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, wherein said means for equalizing comprises at least one pressure equalization aperture located on at least one of said reaction tubes. 5. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each forming a filter device; a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; and means for equalizing pressure differentials within said apparatus, wherein said means for equalizing comprises at least one capillary tube located substantially adjacent to and substantially parallel to at least one of said reaction tubes, said capillary tube extending from said reservoir member and through said holder member. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 further comprising: sealing means for providing a seal between said holder member and said reservoir member; and fastening means for fastening together said reservoir member and holder member. 7. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of first reaction vessels for holding reaction materials, each first reaction vessel having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each forming a filter device; a reservoir member having second reaction vessels for holding reaction materials and for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of first reaction vessels; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of first reaction vessels; and a means for equalizing pressure differentials separately and independently between each of said first reaction vessels and each of said corresponding second reaction vessels. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said means for equalizing pressure differentials comprises at least one aperture in said first reaction vessels adjacent said filter device. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said means for equalizing pressure differentials comprises a capillary tube positioned adjacent said first reaction vessels. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7, wherein said means for equalizing pressure differentials comprises a tubular jacket member positioned concentric with and outside of said first reaction vessels. 11. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each forming a filter device; means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a housing member having a plurality of first apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; and said housing member having a top wall member, said top wall member having a plurality of second apertures which are coaxial with the plurality of first apertures, wherein access is independent to each of said reaction tubes through said top wall member. 12. An apparatus for multiple, simultaneous synthesis of compounds, comprising: a plurality of reaction tubes, each reaction tube having an upper end and a lower end, said lower ends each forming a filter device; a reservoir member having means for receiving the filter devices on the lower ends of said plurality of reaction tubes; a holder member removably located adjacent to the reservoir member, said holder member having a plurality of apertures for supporting said plurality of reaction tubes; sealing means for sealing said reservoir member to said holder member; and fastening means for fastening together said reservoir member and said holder member; a top wall member and a plurality of side wall members, said top wall member having a plurality of apertures which are coaxial with said plurality of reaction tubes, wherein independent access to each of said reaction tubes can be obtained. 