Amplification and sequencing of a selected region of a target nucleic acid polymer are be performed in a single vessel. The sample is added to an amplification mixture containing a thermally stable polymerase and nucleoside feedstocks. Chain terminating dideoxynucleosides are added either at the beginning of the amplification reaction or during the course of the amplification. A thermally stable polymerase which incorporates dideoxynucleotides into an extending oligonucleotide at a rate which is no less than about 0.4 times the rate of incorporation of deoxynucleosides can be used in the amplification mixture or added with the chain terminating nucleoside.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for analyzing a nucleic acid-containing sample comprising the steps of: performing a multiplex amplification reaction on the nucleic acid-containing sample using a plurality of amplification primers pairs, one pair for each of a plurality of regions to be analyzed, to produce a mixture of amplified fragments, one species of amplified fragment for each of the plurality of regions to be analyzed; and determining the sequence of at least one of the species of amplified fragments, wherein the sequence is determined by combining the mixture of amplified fragments produced in the multiplex amplification reaction directly with a sequencing reaction mixture for the production of sequencing fragments and evaluating the sequencing fragments produced therefrom. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one aliquot of the mixture of amplified fragments produced in the multiplex amplification reaction is combined with a sequencing mixture comprising first and second sequencing primers, a nucleotide triphosphate feedstock mixture, a chain-terminating nucleotide triphosphate, and a thermally stable polymerase enzyme which incorporates dideoxynucleotide triphosphates into an extending nucleic acid polymer at a rate which is no less than 0.4 times the rate of incorporation of deoxynucleotide triphosphates to form a sequencing reaction mixture, said first and second sequencing primers binding to the sense and antisense strands, respectively, of the amplified fragments from a selected one of the regions; and wherein the sequencing reaction mixture is exposed to a plurality of temperature cycles each of which includes at least a high temperature denaturation phase and a lower temperature extension phase, thereby producing a plurality of terminated fragments; and that the terminated fragments are evaluated to determine the position of the base corresponding to the chain-terminating nucleotide triphosphate within the selected fragment. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein at least one primer of each pair of amplification primers used in the multiplex amplification reaction is labeled with a capturable label, and wherein the amplified fragments are captured on a solid support and washed prior to combining them with the sequencing mixture. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the capturable label is biotin. 5. The method according claim 2, wherein the thermostable polymerase enzyme is THERMO SEQUENASE.TM.. 6. The method according to claim 2, wherein at least one of the first and second sequencing primers in the sequencing mixture is labeled with a fluorescent label. 7. The method according to claim 2, wherein the first and second sequencing primers in the sequencing mixture are each labeled with a different spectroscopically-distinguishable fluorescent label. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the species of amplified fragments produced by the pairs of amplification primers each have a different length. 