A needle sorting device includes an infeed device which singulates and randomly deposits surgical needles upon a first conveyor for transmission to a processing station. Upon transit, one or more cameras to obtain an image of the deposited needles. The image is digitized and the digital signals are transmitted to a control system computer which evaluates the position and orientation for randomly positioned needles and processes the information to obtain data for communication to one or more robot assemblies having grippers. Utilizing the position and orientation data, the robot assembly grippers removes selected needles from the first conveyor and transfers each needle to an engagement device located upon a second precision conveyor. This second precision conveyor is provided with additional devices to further orient the needle transferred thereto. Each oriented needle is conveyed by the second conveyor to an automatic swaging station where sutures are automatically attached.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus comprising: (a) means for depositing a random distribution of needles at a predetermined rate upon a first conveyor means; (b) means for obtaining an image of said needles at one or more predetermined locations upon said first conveyor means, said means including digitizing means for converting said image into digital signals, said means for obtaining the image having a field of view that encompasses a predetermined number of said needles, said predetermined number being chosen to allow recognition of barrel portions and blade portions of said needles; (c) computer control means for processing said digital signals to obtain positional and orientation data for one or more imaged needles upon said first conveyor means; and (d) robotic transfer means, which positions and reorients itself in accordance with said positional and orientation data to remove said needle from said first conveyor means in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data and position said needle upon a second conveyance means for conveyance to a processing location. 2. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for depositing the random distribution of said needles further includes means for singulating each of said predetermined number of said needles prior to deposition upon said first conveyor means, each of said singulating needles being deposited upon said first conveyor means in a spaced apart relation so that said predetermined number of needles are in said field of view. 3. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transfer means includes one or more robot means each robot means having a gripper means for picking up needles from said first conveyor means, and placing said needles upon said second conveyance means. 4. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second conveyance means includes one or more engagement devices for gripping a respective needle, said transfer means placing each said needle in a respective engagement device. 5. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said computer control means further includes memory means for storing said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles, said transfer means including means for accessing said memory means to obtain said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles. 6. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said means for obtaining an image of said randomly deposited needles includes one or more camera means, each of said one or more camera means in communication with said computer control means. 7. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein each of said camera means obtains a video image of said needles upon said first conveyor means at each of respective said one or more predetermined locations within a field-of-view of each of said one or more camera means. 8. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said singulating means further includes at least one reciprocating door means that alternates between a first and second position to split said predetermined amount of needles into first and second groups of needles, wherein said first group is deposited upon said first conveyor means when said reciprocating door means is in said first position, and said second group is deposited upon a third conveyor means when said reciprocating door means is in said second position. 9. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said robot means is in communication with said memory means, said robot means accessing said memory means to obtain said positional and orientation data corresponding to said imaged needles. 10. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein each of said engagement devices includes a pair of engaging jaws for engaging a needle positioned therebetween by said transfer means. 11. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein each said engagement device further a includes spring means for biasing a first movable jaw of said pair of engaging jaws into engagement with a second fixed jaw of said pair of engaging jaws to retain said needle positioned therebetween. 12. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein each of said engagement devices further includes means for retracting said first movable engaging jaw from engagement with said second fixed jaw prior to positioning said needle therebetween. 13. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said means for retracting said first movable jaw from engagement with said second fixed jaw is a push rod for pushing said first movable jaw in opposition to said bias of said spring means. 14. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 4 further including a first orienting means for orienting each said needle in a uniform direction while positioned upon said second conveyance means. 15. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 14 further including a second orienting means for further orienting said needle axially within said pair of engagement jaws. 16. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 15 further including a third orienting means for further orienting said needle to within 0.001 inch of a desired predetermined orientation for said needle upon said second conveyance means. 17. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said robotic transfer means is a multi-jointed four axis transfer means. 18. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said robotic transfer means comprises four joints, including two joints for dual rotating motion, and two joints for dual axis linear translation. 19. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said needle deposition means includes a vibratory bowl that periodically deposits a set of said needles on said first conveyor means. 20. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein said set of said needles includes up to six needles. 21. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said needle deposition means includes a counter that counts a desired number of needles to form a set of needles for periodic deposition on said first conveyor means. 22. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1 further includes means for singulating said needles so that no more than said predetermined number of said needles are in the field of view of said image obtaining means at one time. 23. The automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said predetermined number is three. 24. An automatic needle sorting and infeed apparatus comprising: (a) means for depositing a random distribution of needles upon a first conveyor means; (b) means for obtaining an image of said needles deposited upon said first conveyor means, said means for obtaining an image having a field of view that encompasses a predetermined number of needles for differentiating between opposite ends of each needle of said predetermined number of needles, said means including digitizing means for converting said image into digital signals; (c) computer control means for processing said digital signals to obtain positional and orientation data for said each needle; and (d) robotic transfer means which, in response to said positional and orientation data, moves to a location of said each needle, removes said each needle from said first conveyor means in accordance with its respective positional and orientation data, and positions said each needle upon a second conveyance means for conveyance to a processing location. 