The present invention, which relates to the transfer of contact lenses in post hydration processing of the lenses. A lens transfer and insertion assembly removes contact lenses from lens hydration pallets, alters their spatial distribution, and deposits them into packaging elements. The lenses are transferred with fluid and retained on the transfer assembly by surface tension.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated apparatus for transporting a plurality of contact lenses from a first processing location to a second processing location, said apparatus comprising: a plurality of elongate finger elements, each element having a convex lens transport surface defined thereon; a lens transfer carriage, said carriage having an array of said elongate finger elements which receive the contact lenses at a first location; at least one reciprocating drive to alter the spatial relationship of the array; a translation device to transport the carriage and the lenses to a second processing location; an orifice defined within said convex lens transport surface for injecting a fluid between a one of said plurality of contact lenses and said transport surface to deposit said contact lenses into a lens carrier at said second processing location; and a controller for actuating said reciprocating carriage, said translation device and said reciprocating drive to effect transfer of said plurality of contact lenses from said first processing station to said second processing station. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said lens transfer carriage further comprises: a set of horizontal guide rails; a plurality of beam elements, slidably mounted in parallel on at least one of said of horizontal guide rails; and said reciprocating drive coupled to said plurality of beam elements for reciprocating said beam elements along said guide rails with respect to one another. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said plurality of finger elements are disposed in a plurality of linear arrays, with a linear array extending downwardly from each of said beams, each of said plurality of fingers further comprising; an elongate shaft, having an upper and lower end with the convex lens transfer surface at the lower end of the shaft, a slotted annular skirt disposed along the shaft adjacent to said lower end, for maintaining the contact lens at a predetermined position. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a second translation mechanism which cooperates with said first translation apparatus to reciprocate said carriage along a first and a second axis of movement. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein each of said finger elements further comprise a central bore, extending from an upper end of said finger element to said orifice in said lens transport surface, for receiving therethrough, and selectively ejecting therefrom, a quantity of fluid. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises, at said first processing location, a lens pallet having: a lens pallet plate having a plurality of lens holding recesses, each of said lens holding recesses aligned with said lens transport surfaces and having at least one recess hole therein, in which lens holding recesses a contact lens may be disposed; and a plurality of internal pallet conduits within said plate, with a pallet conduit extending from each of said recess holes to a fluid source, whereby selective ejection of fluid through the pallet conduits causes a contact lens in said lens holding recess to be ejected therefrom and received by an associated lens transport surface. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 6, further comprising an air jet unit positioned between said first and said second location, said air jet unit comprising: an air jet plate having a plurality of a spaced air jet recesses therein, said regular spacing corresponding to the array of said elongate finger elements; at least one air jet hole in each of said recesses; at least one conduit extending from a remote air reservoir to each air jet hole in each of said air jet recesses; an air pressure means for selectively directing air from said air reservoir through said at least one conduit, and out of said air let holes, and at contact lenses which are secured to the lens transfer surfaces of said finger elements for removal of any bubbles thereon. 8. An assembly for extracting an array of contact lenses from a hydration pallet, changing the spatial relationship of the array of contact lenses, and depositing said contact lenses into packaging elements, said assembly comprising: a mounting bracket including a plurality of horizontal guide rails; a plurality of beam elements, slidably mounted in parallel on said plurality of horizontal guide rails; at least one drive assembly coupled to said beam elements for reciprocation thereof along said guide rails between a compact spacing and a wide spacing; a plurality of finger elements disposed in a linear array, extending downwardly from at least one of said beam elements, each of said finger elements comprising; an elongate shaft, having an upper and lower end, a central bore, extending from said upper end to said lower end, for receiving therethrough a quantity of fluid, and selectively ejecting from said lower end said quantity of fluid, a lens transfer surface at the lower end of the shaft for receiving, and securely holding, thereon a contact lens, a slotted annular skirt disposed along the shaft adjacent to said lower end, for maintaining the contact lens at a predetermined position; and a dual axis translation mechanism for reciprocating said mounting bracket along a vertical axis and a horizontal axis. 9. A contact lens transfer assembly, said assembly comprising at least one beam element, said beam element facilitating transfer of contact lenses between two locations; a finger element, said finger element including an elongate shaft having a lens transfer surface on a first end and a means for attaching said shaft to said beam element on a remote second end; said elongate shaft including a slotted annular skirt adjacent to said first end; and a central bore extending through said elongate shaft for introducing a fluid between said lens transfer surface and a contact lens secured thereon to release said lens. 10. A contact lens transfer assembly as set forth in claim 9, wherein said lens transfer surface is shaped to conform to a concave surface of a contact lens so that said contact lens can be secured to the lens transfer surface by surface tension. 11. A contact lens transfer assembly as set forth in claim 9, wherein said slotted annular skirt includes: at least one skirt element which prevents a contact lens from sliding off the lens transfer surface when a fluid or gas is directed at said lens transfer surface, and a set of vertically aligned slots defined by said skirt element through which fluid or gas directed upwardly at the lens transfer surface may flow. 12. A method of automatically transporting contact lenses from a first processing location to a second processing location, said method comprising the steps of: positioning an array of elongate finger elements above an array of lens carrier cavities at said first processing location, each of said cavities having a contact lens therein, each of said finger elements having a lens transfer surface defined thereon; injecting a fluid into each of said cavities having a contact lens therein to eject said lens from its associated cavity and transfer the contact lens to an associated lens transfer surface; transporting said array of elongate finger elements to said second processing location; and releasing the contact lenses into a set of lens carriers at said second processing location automatically controlling said positioning, injecting, transporting and releasing steps with a controller to effect automatic transfer of the contact lenses from the first processing location to the second processing location. 13. The method as set forth in claim 12, which further comprises the step of changing the spatial dimensions of said array of said elongate finger elements after said contact lenses have been transferred to said lens transfer surfaces. 14. The method as set forth in claim 12, wherein said method further comprises: ejecting a quantity of air from an orifice defined in each of said cavities beneath each contact lens to propel it onto said lens transfer surface. 15. The method as set forth in claim 14, wherein said step of ejecting a quantity of air from beneath each contact lens is followed by a step of directing a jet of air at each contact lens to remove any air bubbles which are present on a surface of said contact lens. 