An injection molding process for the manufacture of composite, molded, thermoplastic articles comprising an insert member contiguous with a second body of molded thermoplastic material, is carried out in a mold assembly comprising a core member and a cavity member engageable therewith. The core and cavity members cooperate to define a first molding station having a first cavity for molding an insert member, and a second molding station which is configured to receive and support an insert member therein, and to provide a second molding cavity contiguous with the insert member for molding a thermoplastic body contiguous with the insert. At the start of the process, an insert is supported in the second station, and thermoplastic materials are injected into the molding cavities in the first and second stations so as to mold an insert and a completed, composite member. The core and cavity are separated, the completed, composite member removed, and the insert transferred from the first molding station to the second molding station, after which the core and cavity are reengaged and the process repeated. Also disclosed herein is an apparatus for carrying out the method.
Claims I claim: 1. A transfer molding process for making a composite, molded, thermoplastic member which includes a molded, thermoplastic, retroreflective, insert member contiguous with a second body of molded, thermoplastic material, said method including the steps of: A. providing a mold assembly comprising: a core member and a cavity member engageable therewith to define a first and second molding station; said first molding station including a first mold cavity having a shape corresponding to a retroreflective insert member having a plurality of corner cube elements defined thereupon, and a first injection port in fluid communication with said first mold cavity; said second molding station including: an insert receiving portion defined therein which is configured to support a retroreflective insert member therein so that the corner cube elements thereof are maintained in a spaced apart relationship with said mold assembly, a second mold cavity contiguous with said insert receiving portion, and a second injection port in fluid communication with said second mold cavity; B. disposing a first retroreflective insert member in the insert receiving portion of said second molding station; C. injecting a first volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer through said first injection port and into said first mold cavity so as to form a second retroreflective insert member; D. injecting a second volume of molten, thermoplastic material through said second injection port and into said second mold cavity, so as to form a second body of thermoplastic material contiguous with said first retroreflective insert; whereby a composite, molded, thermoplastic member incorporating said first retroreflective insert is formed; E. removing said composite, molded, thermoplastic member from said second molding station; and F. transferring said second retroreflective insert member from said first mold cavity to the insert receiving portion of said second molding station. 2. A molding process as in claim 1, wherein the step of injecting the first volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer and the step of injecting the second volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer are carried out substantially simultaneously. 3. A molding process as in claim 1, wherein said first volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer is injected at a temperature which is different from the temperature at which said second volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer is injected. 4. A molding process as in claim 1, wherein the pressure at which the first volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer is injected is different from the pressure at which the second volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer is injected. 5. A molding process as in claim 1, wherein the step of injecting the first volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer comprises injecting a first thermoplastic polymer having a color different from the second molten, thermoplastic polymer. 6. A molding process as in claim 1, wherein the step of removing the composite, molded, thermoplastic member and the step of transferring the second retroreflective insert are implemented by a robot. 7. A molding process as in claim 1, wherein the steps of injecting said first volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer and said second volume of molten, thermoplastic polymer each further include injecting said molten, thermoplastic polymer at a temperature in the range of 400.degree.-600.degree. F. and at a pressure in the range of 500-2000 psi. 8. A transfer molding apparatus for making a composite, molded, thermoplastic member comprising a retroreflective insert member formed from a first body of thermoplastic material which is contiguous with a second body of thermoplastic material, said apparatus comprising: a mold assembly including a core member and a cavity member engageable therewith so as to define a first and a second molding station; said first molding station including a first mold cavity having a shape corresponding to a retroreflective insert member having a plurality of corner cube elements defined thereupon, and a first injection post in fluid communication with said first mold cavity; said second molding station including: an insert receiving portion defined therein which is configured to support a retroreflective insert member so that the corner cube elements thereof are maintained in a spaced apart relationship with said mold assembly, a second mold cavity contiguous with the insert receiving portion, and a second injection port in fluid communication with said second mold cavity; transfer means for transferring a molded, thermoplastic insert member from said first mold cavity to the insert receiving portion of the second molding station. 9. An apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the insert receiving portion of the second mold cavity has a shape corresponding to the first mold cavity, but is smaller in length and width than is said first mold cavity so as to accommodate shrinkage of an insert member which has cooled after having been molded in said first mold cavity. 10. An apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the insert receiving portion of the second mold cavity includes an annular support ridge proximate the perimeter thereof for supporting the retroreflective insert member, and for localizing molding stresses in a perimeter region thereof. 11. An apparatus as in claim 8, wherein said second mold cavity is configured to mold a light dispersive element. 12. An apparatus as in claim 8, further including injector means in fluid communication with the first injection port and the second injection port. 13. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said injector means is operative to deliver a volume of molten, thermoplastic material of a first composition to said first injection port, and a volume of molten, thermoplastic material of a second composition, different from said first composition, to said second injection port. 14. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said injector means is operative to deliver molten, thermoplastic material to said first injection port at a first temperature, and to said second injection port at a second temperature, different from said first temperature. 15. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said injection means is operative to deliver molten, thermoplastic material to said first injection port at a first pressure, and to said second injection port at a second pressure, different from said first pressure. 16. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said injection means is operative to deliver molten thermoplastic material to said first injection port and said second injection port at a temperature in the range of 400.degree.-600.degree. F. 17. An apparatus as in claim 12, wherein said injection means is operative to deliver molten thermoplastic material to said first injection port and said second injection port at a temperature in the range of 500-2000 psi. 