A base plate for a robotic system for automated durability road testing of a vehicle includes a seat surface positionable against a seat of the vehicle. A plurality of walls extend upwardly from and bound the surface when the surface is positioned against the seat, and a ballast space is established between the walls.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for automatically operating a vehicle, comprising: a base having a seat surface positionable against a seat of the vehicle, said base further having a plurality of walls extending upwardly from and bounding said seat surface when said base is positioned against said seat of the vehicle, a ballast space for supporting a weight therein being established between said walls; and a control unit for remotely controlling the vehicle, said control unit being positioned on said base. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a back plate rising upwardly from the seat surface. 3. The device of claim 2, further comprising a plurality of walls extending outwardly from the back plate. 4. The device of claim 3, further comprising a weight disposed in the ballast space. 5. A vehicle, comprising: a seat having a back support extending upwardly from said seat; a base formed with a seat surface positionable against said seat; a back plate extending generally perpendicularly upward from said seat surface; a control unit for remotely controlling the vehicle, said control unit being positioned on said base; and a plurality of walls extending upwardly from and bounding said seat surface when said seat surface is positioned against said seat, a ballast space for supporting a weight therein being established between said walls. 6. The vehicle of claim 5, further comprising a plurality of walls extending outwardly from the back plate. 7. The vehicle of claim 6, further comprising a weight disposed in the ballast space. 8. A method for positioning a robot in a vehicle for remote control of the vehicle, comprising the steps of: providing a base formed with a seat surface, the base including a plurality of walls extending upwardly from and bounding the seat surface, a ballast space for supporting a weight therein being established between said plurality of walls of said base; positioning the seat surface against a seat of the vehicle in proximity to a control mechanism of the vehicle; positioning the robot on the base; and placing a weight in said ballast space. 