An automated method and apparatus is provided to mold and cure soft contact lenses. At a first station, front curve mold halves are partially filled with a polymerizable monomer. At a second station, a surfactant coating may be applied to a flange on the front curve mold half to provide subsequent preferential adhesion of any excess hydrogel to a back curve mold half at the time the mold halves are separated. At a third station, the mold halves are assembled under vacuum, and clamped to displace any excess hydrogel from the mold cavity. This clamping step firmly seats the back curve mold half, severs any excess monomer from the monomer in the cavity, defines the lens edge, and seals the cavity in a vacuum. Following assembly of the mold halves, the assembly is transported to a precure station and reclamped, and the monomer is precured with actinic radiation, such as UV, to partially cure the monomer to a gel like consistency. The pallets of lens assemblies are transported through an extended cure station using heat and UV radiation to complete polymerization. The lens mold assemblies are then separated by applying a temperature gradient to the back curve mold half through the use of lasers or high energy steam and then pried apart in an automated station, with any excess monomer adhering to the removed back curve mold half. The front curve mold half, and the newly molded lens is then hydrated and separated from the front curve mold half in a subsequent apparatus.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses from a polymerizable hydrogel, said apparatus comprising; (a) a transport means for transporting a plurality of contact lens molds to and from a plurality of stations, each of said contact lens molds having first and second mold parts; (b) a first automated station for receiving a plurality of first mold parts and depositing therein a predetermined amount of a polymerizable hydrogel; (c) a second automated station for receiving said plurality of first mold parts and assembling each first mold part with a second mold part under vacuum to prevent entrapment of air between the mold parts; (d) a first means for clamping said first mold half against said second mold half for a predetermined pressure and time to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess hydrogel from said cavity; (e) a lens cure station having a radiant energy source for polymerizing said polymerizable hydrogel in said cavity after said first and second halves are clamped together; and (f) an automated demolding station for removing said second mold part and any excess hydrogel from said first mold part and said molded contact lens. 2. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses from a polymerizable hydrogel, said apparatus comprising; (a) a transport means for transporting a plurality of contact lens molds to and from a plurality of stations, each of said contact lens molds having first and second mold parts; (b) a first automated station for receiving a plurality of first mold parts and depositing therein a predetermined amount of a polymerizable hydrogel; (c) a second automated station for receiving said plurality of first mold parts and assembling each first mold part with a second mold part under vacuum to prevent entrapment of air between the mold parts, said second automated station including a first means for clamping said first mold half against said second mold half for a predetermined pressure and time to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess hydrogel from said cavity; (d) a precure station for clamping said first mold half against said second mold half for a predetermined pressure and time, said precure station including a radiant energy source for initiating polymerization throughout the lens; (e) a lens cure station having a radiant energy source for polymerizing said polymerizable hydrogel in said cavity after said first and second halves are clamped together; and (f) an automated demolding station for removing said second mold part and any excess hydrogel from said first mold part and said molded contact lens. 3. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses from a polymerizable hydrogel, said apparatus comprising; (a) an automated molding station for injection molding fully degassed first and second mold parts for the production of soft contact lenses; (b) a transport means for transporting a plurality of contact lens molds to and from a plurality of stations, each of said contact lens molds having first and second mold parts; (c) a first automated station for receiving a plurality of first mold parts and depositing therein a predetermined amount of a polymerizable hydrogel; (d) a second automated station for receiving said plurality of first mold parts and assembling each first mold part with a second mold part under vacuum to prevent entrapment of air between the mold parts; (e) a first means for clamping said first mold half against said second mold half for a predetermined pressure and time to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess hydrogel from said cavity; (f) a lens cure station having a radiant energy source for polymerizing said polymerizable hydrogel in said cavity after said first and second halves are clamped together; and (g) an automated demolding station for removing said second mold part and any excess hydrogel from said first mold part and said molded contact lens. 4. An apparatus for the automated molding of contact lenses from a polymerizable hydrogel, said apparatus comprising; (a) a transport means for transporting a plurality of contact lens molds to and from a plurality of stations on pallets, each of said contact lens molds having first and second mold parts; (b) a first automated station for receiving a plurality of first mold parts and depositing therein a predetermined amount of a polymerizable hydrogel; (c) a second automated station for receiving said plurality of first mold parts and assembling each first mold part with a second mold part under vacuum to prevent entrapment of air between the mold parts; (d) a first means for clamping said first mold half against said second mold half for a predetermined pressure and time to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess hydrogel from said cavity; (e) a lens cure station having a radiant energy source for polymerizing said polymerizable hydrogel in said cavity after said first and second halves are clamped together; and (f) an automated demolding station for removing said second mold part and any excess hydrogel from said first mold part and said molded contact lens. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 which further includes a means for degassing the hydrogel prior to deposit in said first mold part. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 4 which further includes enclosure means for surrounding said transport means and said mold parts with an inert atmosphere. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 which further includes first molding means for injection molding of said first and second mold parts at a temperature of at least 450 degrees F. over a cycle of 3 to 12 seconds. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 7 which further include robotic means for transfer of said mold parts from said first molding means to said transport means and said inert atmosphere within 15 seconds or less. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 wherein said second automated station further includes said first means for clamping said mold parts together, wherein said mold parts are clamped together under vacuum to displace any excess hydrogel and to firmly seat and align the mold parts. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 wherein each mold part includes a flange member, and said apparatus further includes a station for coating the flange of said first mold part with a surfactant prior to assembly of said mold parts. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3 wherein said first mold parts are transported to said first and to said second automated stations on a pallet by said transport means. 12. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 where said pallet includes registration means to cooperate with said second station to register said pallet prior to assembly of said mold parts. 13. An apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said pallet includes a perimeter seal area to cooperate with a perimeter seal formed at said second automated station to enable assembly under vacuum. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein said transport means further includes separate pallets for said second mold parts, wherein said pallets having first mold parts are interleaved with pallets having second mold parts. 15. An apparatus as claimed in claim 14 wherein said second automated station includes a plurality of grippers for, picking up second mold parts from a pallet in a first cycle, and depositing said second mold parts on said first mold parts in a second pallet during a second cycle to assemble said mold. 16. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second automated station further comprises (i) a housing member for surrounding aligned first and second mold parts to thereby enable a vacuum to be drawn around said parts; and (ii) third means for reciprocating said second mold parts along a reciprocating axis to clamp said second mold parts against said first mold part with a predetermined pressure while said vacuum remains drawn. 17. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3 or 4 wherein said second automated station further comprises (i) a housing member for surrounding aligned first and second mold parts to thereby enable a vacuum to be drawn around said parts; and (ii) third means for reciprocating said second mold parts along a reciprocating axis to clamp said second mold parts against said first mold part with a predetermined pressure while said vacuum remains drawn. 18. An apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein both said housing member and said third means reciprocate along parallel axes. 19. An apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein said third means includes a separate reciprocating member for each second mold part carried in said pallet. 20. An apparatus as claimed in claim 19 wherein each reciprocating member includes a seating means for engaging said second mold part and a vacuum port for drawing a vacuum between said reciprocating member and said second part to thereby enable said reciprocating member to lift said second mold part from its associated pallet. 21. An apparatus as claimed in claim 20 wherein each of said reciprocating members are separately biased from a common air plenum with respect to said third means to allow independent reciprocation and clamping by each reciprocating means at a common predetermined pressure. 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 21 wherein said housing member reciprocates with respect to said third means, and is resiliently biased to a first position with respect to said third means. 23. An apparatus as claimed in claim 22 wherein said resilient bias between said housing and said third means establishes a predetermined crush bias between said housing and said pallet to maintain said vacuum within said housing during assembly of said mold parts. 24. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first means includes a second radiant energy source for precuring said polymerizable hydrogel while said first and second halves are clamped together. 25. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first means is mounted within and defines a portion of said second automated station, and said apparatus further includes a precure station, said precure station including a second means for clamping said first and said second mold halves together and a radiant energy source for precuring said polymerizable hydrogel while said first and second halves are clamped together. 26. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first means is mounted within and defines a portion of said second automated station, and said apparatus further includes a precure station, said precure station including a second means for clamping said first and said second mold halves together and a radiant energy source for precuring said polymerizable hydrogel while said first and second halves are clamped together. 27. An apparatus claimed in claim 25 wherein said apparatus further includes a control means for varying the quantity of energy received by said hydrogel during said precure step. 28. An apparatus as claimed in claim 27 wherein said second means for clamping includes a reciprocating clamping member positioned between said molds and said radiant energy source. 29. An apparatus as claimed in claim 25 or 26 wherein said transport means moves said molds into resilient engagement with said resilient clamping member as said molds are moved into an exposure position. 30. An apparatus as claimed in claim 25 or 26 wherein said resilient clamping members are mounted on said radiant energy light source and said radiant energy light source moves said clamping members into resilient engagement with mold halves when said molds are moved into an exposure position. 31. An apparatus as claimed in claim 28 wherein each of said clamping members include an annular cylinder having an in annular diameter greater than the diameter of the contact lens to be polymerized. 32. An apparatus as claimed in claim 31 wherein said annular cylinder is resiliently biased into engagement with said mold. 33. An apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said annular cylinder exerts a clamping pressure of 0.5 to 2.0 Kgf on said mold. 34. An apparatus as claimed in claim 30 wherein said radiant energy is emitted by an ultraviolet lamp at 320 to 390 nm. 35. An apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said transport means includes a plurality of lifting standards for raising said pallets into engagement with said second means. 36. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said contact lens molds includes a first mold part and a second mold part, each part comprising an integral article of thermoplastic polymer transparent to ultraviolet light, said article having a central curved section defining a concave surface, a convex surface and a circular circumferential edge, at least the central portion of at least one of said concave surface and said convex surface having the dimensions of the front or back curve, respectively, of a contact lens to be produced in said mold assembly and being sufficiently smooth that the surface of a contact lens formed by polymerization of said polymerizable composition in contact with said surface is optically acceptable, said article also having an annular flange integral with and surrounding said circular circumferential edge and extending therefrom in a plane normal to the axis of said concave surface. 37. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3 or 4 wherein said contact lens molds includes a first mold part and a second mold part, each part comprising an integral article of thermoplastic polymer transparent to ultraviolet light, said article having a central curved section defining a concave surface, a convex surface and a circular circumferential edge, at least the central portion of at least one of said concave surface and said convex surface having the dimensions of the front or back curve, respectively, of a contact lens to be produced in said mold assembly and being sufficiently smooth that the surface of a contact lens formed by polymerization of said polymerizable composition in contact with said surface is optically acceptable, said article also having an annular flange integral with and surrounding said circular circumferential edge and extending therefrom in a plane normal to the axis of said concave surface. 38. An apparatus as claimed in claim 36 in which each of said mold parts also has a generally triangular tab situated in a plane normal to said axis and extending from said flange, said article having a thinness sufficient to transmit heat therethrough rapidly and rigidity effective to withstand prying forces applied to separate said mold part from said mold assembly. 39. An apparatus as claimed in claim 36 wherein the apparatus further includes an injection molding station and each mold part is molded at a temperature of at least 450 degrees F. to a provide a mold surface which is essentially free of oxygen. 40. An apparatus as claimed in claim 36 wherein said thermoplastic polymer is polystyrene. 41. An apparatus as claimed in claim 36 wherein each mold part is of essentially uniform thickness. 42. An apparatus as claimed in claim 36 wherein the central portion of said convex surface has the dimensions of the back curve of a contact lens that can be produced by polymerization of a polymerizable composition in contact with said convex surface, and wherein said convex surface is sufficiently smooth that the surface of said back curve can be worn comfortably in the eye. 43. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said apparatus further includes a third automated station located between said first and said second station for applying a surfactant to at least one surface of said first mold part, wherein said surfactant assists in the release between said first and second mold parts and enables removal of any excess polymer molding material adherent to said at least one surface of said first mold part. 44. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3 or 4 wherein said apparatus further includes a third automated station located between said first and said second station for applying a surfactant to at least one surface of said first mold part, wherein said surfactant assists in the release between said first and second mold parts and enables removal of any excess polymer molding material adherent to said at least one surface of said first mold part. 45. An apparatus as claimed in claim 43, wherein said third automated station includes: (a) stamping means including at least one stamp being arranged in spaced relationship above said transport means, said at least one stamp being positionable in vertical alignment with said at least one first mold part; (b) means for coating said stamp with a surfactant; and (c) actuating means for said stamping means to displace said stamping means downwardly to an extent such that the surfactant-wetted surface portions of said at least one stamp contacts said at least one surface of said first mold part so as to impart a coating of said surfactant thereto. 46. An apparatus as claimed in claim 45 wherein said third station further includes a pad member containing a surfactant which is interposable between said stamping means and said at least one first mold part and means for displacing said pad member from the interposition thereof in said apparatus between said stamping means and said at least one first mold part. 47. An apparatus as claimed in claim 46, wherein said third station includes operative means for alternatingly positioning said pad member beneath said stamping means and withdrawing said pad member from said location in said apparatus to enable said at least one stamp to advance downwardly into contact with said at least one surface of said at least one first mold part. 48. An apparatus as claimed in claim 46, wherein said pad member comprises a porous polyethylene member having an average 10 micron pore size, said member being impregnated with a solution containing said surfactant. 49. An apparatus as claimed in claim 48, wherein an upper surface of said porous polyethylene member facing said at least one stamp of said stamping means is covered by a filter having a mesh size with opening of about 1.2 microns. 50. An apparatus as claimed in claim 49, wherein said filter controls the amount of surfactant wicked through said member and expelled upwardly through said filter in response to pressure exerted thereon upon being contacted by said at least one stamp so as to deposit a predetermined quantity of said surfactant on contacting surface portions of said at least one stamp. 51. An apparatus as claimed in claim 50, wherein at least the surface portions of said at least one stamp contacting said pad member for assuming surfactant therefrom is constituted from a compound comprising about 90% urethane and 10% silicone. 52. An apparatus as claimed in claim 45, wherein a plurality of said first mold parts are mounted on a pallet carried by said transport means, each said first mold part comprising a front curve for molding a hydrophilic polymer contact lens and an encompassing flange portion, each said mold means being operatively aligned with respectively one said stamp whereby contact between said front curve and an associated stamp transfers a thin film of said surfactant to a facing surface on said flange portion about said front curve from said stamp thereby facilitating detaching of a second mold part comprising a base curve for said lens and a ring of excess molding material adhesively deposited on the surfaces of said flange portion. 53. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said transport means includes: (a) one or more pallets for carrying one or more contact lens molds throughout the apparatus, said pallets having one or more first recesses formed in a surface thereof for receiving either one or more first mold parts or one or more second mold parts prior to assembling said contact lens mold; and (b) conveyor means for transporting said pallets from station to station throughout said production line facility. 54. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3 or 4, wherein said transport means includes: (a) one or more pallets for carrying one or more contact lens molds throughout the apparatus, said pallets having one or more first recesses formed in a surface thereof for receiving either one or more first mold parts or one or more second mold parts prior to assembling said contact lens mold; and (b) conveyor means for transporting said pallets from station to station throughout said production line facility. 55. An apparatus as claimed in claim 53, wherein said transport means further includes registration means formed in said pallet surface for enabling precise positioning of said pallet at one or more automated stations in apparatus. 56. An apparatus as claimed in claim 53 wherein each of said first mold parts and second mold parts of said contact lens mold assembly includes an annular uniplanar flange portion. 57. An apparatus as claimed in claim 56 wherein each of said first recesses further includes a recessed flange area for accommodating said annular flange portions of either said first mold part or said second mold part. 58. An apparatus as claimed in claim 53 wherein each of said first mold parts and second mold parts of said contact lens mold assembly includes an uniplanar tab portion extending from said annular flange. 59. An apparatus as claimed in claim 58 wherein each of said first recesses further includes a recessed tab area for accommodating said tab portion of either said first mold part and complementary second mold part to normally seat said mold parts in a predetermined orientation within a respective first recess. 60. An apparatus as claimed in claim 53 wherein said conveyor means includes a rail means for guiding said pallet throughout predetermined portions of said production line, said pallets including indentations for engagement with said rail means while being transported. 61. An apparatus as claimed in claim 60 wherein said conveyor means includes a walking beam for driving said pallet along said rail means. 62. An apparatus as claimed in claim 53 wherein said conveyor means includes a single belt means for serially transporting pallets for predetermined distances along said production line. 63. An apparatus as claimed in claim 60 wherein said conveyor means includes a ram means for pushing said pallet for predetermined distances along said rail means. 64. An apparatus as claimed in claim 53 wherein said conveyor means comprises first and second belt means for simultaneously transporting a respective first series and second series of pallets, said first belt means conveying said first series of pallets carrying said first mold parts and said second belt means conveying said second series of pallets carrying complementary second mold parts for conveyance thereof. 65. An apparatus as claimed in claim 64 wherein said transport means further includes sequencing means for positioning a pallet carrying said first mold parts from said first belt means adjacent a pallet carrying said second mold parts from said second belt means and enabling said adjacently positioned pallets to be conveyed on a third belt means through said apparatus. 66. An apparatus as claimed in claim 64 which further includes accumulating means for enabling a series of pallets to accumulate on said conveyor means for batch processing at predetermined portions of said production line facility. 67. An apparatus as claimed in claim 66 wherein said accumulating means for enabling batch processingthroughout predetermined portions of said production line facility includes a clamping means at a downstream location for stopping motion of one or more pallets located upstream of said clamping means to enable accumulation of pallets therebehind. 68. An apparatus as claimed in claim 67 which further includes ram means for enabling sequential transport of said pallets on said conveyor means after batch processing thereof. 69. An apparatus as claimed in claim 65 wherein said second automated station includes grippers to remove said second mold parts from said second series of pallets for assembly of said contact lens molds at said second automated station. 70. An apparatus as claimed in claim 69 wherein said transport apparatus further includes means for returning said empty pallet along a forth belt means from said contact lens mold assembly station to said second belt means to receive said second mold parts. 71. An apparatus as claimed in claim 53 wherein said pallet surface includes eight first recesses. 72. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said automated station for demolding is adapted for mold assemblies having flanges formed on each of said mold parts, and said station further includes: (a) first means for applying heat to said second mold part to form a temperature gradient between said second mold part and the contact lens; and, (b) pry means for demolding said lens, said pry means inserted between said flanges of said first and said second mold parts of said contact lens mold assembly, said pry means including a first and second set of pry fingers for biasing said second mold part upwardly at a predetermined force with respect to said first mold part to remove said back mold part therefrom. 73. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein said automated station for demolding is adapted for mold assemblies having flanges formed on each of said mold parts, and said station further includes: (a) first means for applying heat to said second mold part to form a temperature gradient between said second mold part and the contact lens; and, (b) pry means for demolding said lens, said pry means inserted between said flanges of said first and said second mold parts of said contact lens mold assembly, said pry means including a first and second set of pry fingers for biasing said second mold part upwardly at a predetermined force with respect to said first mold part to remove said back mold part therefrom. 74. An apparatus as claimed in claim 72 wherein said pry means lifts said back mold part from said front mold part at a predetermined time after application of said heat. 75. An apparatus as claimed in claim 72 wherein said demolding station further includes a gripping means which simultaneously grips said second mold part when said second mold part is removed from its associated first mold part. 76. An apparatus as claimed in claim 72 wherein said pry means includes means for displacing said first set of pry fingers in a substantially vertical direction while said second set of pry fingers anchors said first mold parts, thereby separating said parts. 77. An apparatus as claimed in claim 76 wherein said first and second set of pry fingers are extensible from a first retracted position to a second extended position between said flanges of said first and said second mold parts of said contact lens mold assembly. 78. An apparatus as claimed in claim 77 wherein said pry means are inserted between said flanges of said mold parts of said contact lens mold assembly while said heat is applied to each second mold part. 79. An apparatus as claimed in claim 78 wherein said first means for applying heat comprises means for applying a predetermined amount of steam. 80. An apparatus as claimed in claim 79 wherein said first means for applying heat includes a means for discharging steam through a nozzle associated with a contact lens mold assembly. 81. An apparatus as claimed in claim 80 wherein said first means for applying heat further includes means for advancing said steam discharging means from a first position to a second position in contact with said second mold part prior to discharging steam to said second mold part surface, and retracting said steam applying means away from said second mold part towards said first position after discharging steam. 82. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 wherein said automated demolding station includes a steam nozzle assembly for heating the second part of a contact lens mold assembly, said nozzle assembly including: (a) a plurality of steam nozzles for engaging a plurality of contact lens mold assemblies, each of said nozzles including: (i) means for sealing said nozzle to said mold assembly to create a heating chamber between said nozzle and said contact lens mold assembly; (ii) a steam orifice for discharging steam into said heating chamber; and (iii) at least one port defined in each of said nozzles for exhausting steam from said heating chamber; (b) means for moving said steam nozzles into engagement with said contact lens mold assemblies; (c) a first plenum for distributing steam to each of said nozzle assemblies; and (d) a second plenum for drawing a vacuum through said vent ports to exhaust steam from said heating chamber whereby a temperature gradient may be created between said back curve mold part and the contact lens in said mold assembly. 83. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said automated demolding station further includes a source of intense electromagnetic radiation for heating one of said mold parts prior to demolding, said radiation being absorbed by said one mold part to create a temperature differential between said mold part and the contact lens to be demolded. 84. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 or 3 wherein said automated demolding station further includes a source of intense electromagnetic radiation for heating one of said mold parts prior to demolding, said radiation being absorbed by said one mold part to create a temperature differential between said mold part and the contact lens to be demolded. 85. An apparatus as claimed in claim 83, wherein said demolding station also includes means for directing said electromagnetic radiation from the source to impinge the outer surface of said mold part to be heated. 86. An apparatus as claimed in claim 85 wherein the source of electromagnetic radiation is a laser. 87. An apparatus as claimed in claim 86 wherein the radiation has a wavelength of between about 1 m and about 20 m. 88. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which said automated demolding station is adapted to demold contact lens molded between a first and second mold parts, wherein said first mold part is a concave front curve mold part and the second mold part is a convex back curve mold part, each of said parts having an outwardly extending flange member, which flange members are spaced from and substantially parallel to each other, said demolding station including a demolding apparatus comprising: (a) at least one pair of lower pry fingers, said pair joined together at a bight to form lower U-shaped pry tool; (b) at least one pair of upper pry fingers, said pair joined together at a bight to form an upper U-shaped pry tool; (c) first means for reciprocating said upper and lower pry tools along an insertion axis from a first conveying position to a second insertion position; (d) second means for reciprocating said upper and lower pry tools along a first pry axis from a first insertion position to a second demolded position; and (e) control means for sequentially actuating said first means to insert said pry tools between the flange members of said mold, and then actuating said second means to lift said back curve mold part upwardly to thereby separate said back curve mold part from said front curve mold part. 89. An apparatus as claimed in claim 88 wherein a plurality of contact lenses and mold parts are carried by said transport means on a pallet and said apparatus includes a plurality of pairs of upper and lower pry fingers. 90. An apparatus as claimed in claim 89 wherein said pallet contains two rows of contact lenses and mold parts, and said apparatus includes first and second sets of upper and lower pry fingers, with a first set positioned on a first side of said pallet and a second set positioned on a second side of said pallet. 91. An apparatus as claimed in claim 90 wherein in each pry tool is a thin flat blade member having a plurality of outwardly extending pry fingers. 92. An apparatus as claimed in claim 91 wherein said blade members are sandwiched together for insertion between said flanges. 93. An apparatus as claimed in claim 88 wherein said demold apparatus further including a suction cup for each at least one pair of upper pry fingers. 94. An apparatus as claimed in claim 93 wherein said apparatus further includes a third means for independent reciprocal movement of said suction cup to remove said back curve mold part from said upper pry fingers after separation of said mold parts. 95. An apparatus as claimed in claim 88 wherein said apparatus further includes a means for heating said back curve mold part before said second means is actuated. 96. An apparatus as claimed in claim 95 wherein said means for heating includes a steam nozzle. 97. An apparatus as claimed in claim 95 wherein said means for heating includes a laser. 98. A method of automatically molding soft contact lenses from a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture, said method comprising; (a) transporting a plurality of contact lens molds to and from a plurality of stations, each of said contact lens molds having first and second mold parts; (b) depositing a predetermined amount of a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture in said first mold part; (c) assembling each first mold part with a second mold part under vacuum to prevent entrapment of air between the mold parts and the polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture; (d) clamping said second mold half against said first mold half for a predetermined pressure and time to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess monomer from said cavity; (e) polymerizing said monomer or monomer mixture in said cavity after said first and second halves are clamped together with radiant energy; and (f) removing said second mold part and any excess monomer from said first mold part and said molded contact lens. 99. A method of automatically molding soft contact lenses from a polymerizable monomer, said method comprising; (a) transporting a plurality of contact lens molds to and from a plurality of stations, each of said contact lens molds having first and second mold parts; (b) depositing a predetermined amount of a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture in said first mold part; (c) assembling each first mold part with a second mold part under vacuum to prevent entrapment of air between the mold parts and the polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture; (d) clamping said second mold half against said first mold half for a predetermined pressure and time and exposing said clamped monomer or monomer mixture to a radiant energy source to precure the lens to a gel-like consistency and to initiate polymerization throughout the lens; (e) polymerizing and curing said monomer or monomer mixture in said cavity after said lens has been precured; (f) removing said second mold part and any excess monomer from said first mold part and said molded contact lens. 100. A method of automatically molding contact lenses from a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture in a low oxygen environment, said apparatus comprising; (a) molding first and second mold parts for the production of soft contact lens blanks in first and second automated molding stations, (b) receiving said mold parts from said molding stations and transporting said mold parts in a low oxygen environment to and from a plurality of automated stations; (c) depositing a predetermined amount of a polymerizable monomer or monomer mixture in said first mold part; (d) assembling each first mold part with a second mold part under vacuum to prevent entrapment of air between the mold parts and the monomer or monomer mixture; (e) clamping said second mold half against said first mold half for a predetermined pressure and time to define a contact lens mold cavity and to remove any excess monomer from said cavity; (f) polymerizing said monomer or monomer mixture in said cavity after said first and second halves are clamped together with radiant energy; and (g) removing said second mold part and any excess monomer from said first mold part and said molded contact lens. 101. A method as claimed in claim 98 or 99 or 100 which further includes the step of degassing the monomer or monomer mixture prior to filling the first mold part. 102. A method as claimed in claim 98 or 99 which further includes the step of transporting said mold parts in an inert atmosphere to prevent absorption of oxygen thereon. 103. A method as claimed in claim 102 which further includes the step of molding sets of said first and second mold parts at a temperature of at least 450 degrees F. within a cycle time of 3 to 12 seconds. 104. A method as claimed in claim 103 which further includes the step of transferring said molded sets from said molding step to said transport step within an inert atmosphere within 15 seconds of the completion of said molding step. 105. A method as claimed in claim 98 or 99 or 100 wherein said method further includes the step of clamping said mold parts together in said assembly step while still under vacuum to firmly seat and align the mold parts. 106. A method as claimed in claim 98 or 99 or 100 which further includes the step of forming each mold part with a flange member, and then coating the flange of said first mold part with a surfactant prior to assembly of said mold parts. 107. A method as claimed in claim 98 or 99 or 100 which further includes the step of transporting said first and said second mold parts in sets, on separate pallets. 108. A method as claimed in claim 107 wherein said transporting step further includes the step of interleaving pallets with a set of first mold parts with pallets having a set of second mold parts. 109. A method as claimed in claim 108 which further includes the step of picking up a set of second mold parts from a pallet in a first cycle, and depositing said set of second mold parts on said first mold parts in a second pallet during a second cycle to assemble said mold. 