A substrate processing reactor capable of thermal CVD, plasma-enhanced CVD, plasma-assisted etchback, plasma self-cleaning and other substrate processing operations all of which can either be performed separately or as part of in-situ multiple step processing. The reactor incorporates a uniform radial gas pumping system which enables uniform reactant gas flow across the wafer. Also included are upper and lower purge gas dispersers. The upper purge gas disperser directs purge gas flow downwardly toward the periphery of the wafer while the lower gas disperser directs purge gas across the backside of the wafer. The radial pumping gas system and purge gas dispersers sweep radially away from the wafer to prevent deposition external to the wafer and keep the chamber clean.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a substrate, said apparatus comprising: a supportive base for supporting said substrate during processing; a first gas disperser comprising a showerhead having a plurality of holes, said first gas disperser disposed to supply a process gas through said showerhead holes to a front surface of said substrate while said showerhead is stationary; and a second gas disperser having an outlet positioned surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate and disposed to deliver a purge gas to a selected region of said substrate to prevent said process gas from contacting said selected region. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said selected region comprises a peripheral region of a back surface of said substrate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said outlet of said second gas disperser is positioned within a processing chamber wall. 4. An apparatus for minimizing CVD reactant deposition on a selected region of a substrate, said apparatus comprising: a supportive base for supporting said substrate during processing; a first gas disperser comprising a showerhead having a plurality of holes, said first gas disperser disposed to supply a process gas through said showerhead holes to a front surface of said substrate while said showerhead is stationary; and a second gas disperser having an outlet positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate and disposed to deliver a purge gas toward said selected region such that said purge gas contacts said selected region and minimizes deposition on said selected region. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said selected region comprises an edge of said substrate. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said selected region comprises a peripheral region of a back surface of said substrate. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising an inert gas source comprising an inert gas and wherein said second gas disperser delivers said inert gas as said pure gas to said selected region. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a first reactant gas source comprising a first reactant gas; a second reactant gas source comprising a second reactant gas; a carrier gas source comprising a carrier gas; a gas mixing system that mixes said first reactant gas with said second reactant gas and carrier gas to form said process gas. 9. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said outlet of said second gas disperser is positioned within a processing chamber wall. 10. A chemical vapor deposition processing apparatus comprising: a housing forming a processing chamber; a substrate holder for supporting a substrate in said processing chamber during chemical vapor deposition processing, said substrate holder having a first surface that is in mechanical contact with said substrate during substrate processing; a first reactant gas source comprising a first reactant gas a second reactant gas source comprising a second reactant gas; a non-reactive gas source comprising a non-reactive gas; a gas mixing system that mixes said first reactant gas with said second reactant gas to form a process gas; a first gas disperser fluidly coupled to said gas mixing system and disposed to introduce said process gas toward a front surface of said substrate to deposit a layer of material on said substrate; a second gas disperser positioned in a second surface, different than said first surface and not in mechanical contact with said substrate, said second gas disperser being fluidly coupled to said non-reactive gas source and disposed to introduce said non-reactive gas around a periphery of said substrate such that said non-reactive gas flows across an edge of said substrate; and a gas pumping system that establishes a flow of said process gas and said purge gas such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, combines with said purge gas near said edge of said substrate, and exits said processing chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said first gas disperser is adjacent to said second gas disperser. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said non-reactive gas is introduced into said processing chamber through an annular groove. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said non-reactive gas is introduced to said annular groove from a plurality of radial grooves. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said first reactant gas comprises vaporized TEOS and said second reactant gas comprises oxygen. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said first reactant gas comprises vaporized TEOS and said second reactant gas comprises ozone in oxygen. 16. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein an outlet of said second surface is a surface of said housing. 17. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a housing forming a processing chamber; a substrate holder for supporting a substrate in said processing chamber during substrate processing, said substrate holder having a first surface that is in mechanical contact with said substrate during substrate processing; a first reactant gas source comprising a first reactant gas; a second reactant gas source comprising a second reactant gas; a non-reactive gas source comprising a non-reactive gas; a gas mixing system that mixes said first reactant gas with said second reactant gas to form a process gas; a first gas disperser opposing a front surface of said substrate and fluidly coupled to said gas system, said first gas disperser disposed to introduce a process gas toward said front surface of said substrate to deposit a layer of material on said substrate; a second gas disperser positioned below said substrate in a second surface, different than said first surface and not in mechanical contact with said substrate, said second gas disperser being fluidly coupled to said non-reactive gas source and disposed to introduce said non-reactive gas beneath said substrate such that said non-reactive gas flows across a peripheral region of a back surface of said substrate and then across an edge of said substrate; and a gas pumping system that establishes a flow of said process gas and said purge gas such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, combines with said purge gas near said edge of said substrate, and exits said processing chamber. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a third gas disperser disposed to introduce a second non-reactive gas to an edge of said substrate from a position above said front surface of said substrate. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein an outlet of said second surface is a surface of said housing. 20. A semiconductor processing apparatus comprising: a housing defining a chamber; a substrate holder, located within said chamber, having an upper surface adapted for supporting a substrate being processed in said chamber; a gas inlet manifold, located above said substrate holder, disposed to introduce a process gas toward an upper surface of said substrate to deposit a film on said substrate; a purge gas disperser located in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate and that is below a lower surface of said substrate holder, said purge gas disperser disposed to introduce a purge gas into said chamber such that said purge gas flows across a peripheral region of a lower surface of said substrate and across an edge of said substrate to substantially prevent said process gas from contacting said peripheral region of said lower surface of said substrate; and a gas pumping system that establishes a flow of said process gas and said purge gas such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, combines with said purge gas near said edge of said substrate, and exits said processing chamber. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said purge gas is introduced into said processing chamber through an annular channel. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said gas inlet manifold is further adapted to introduce a second purge gas toward an upper surface of said edge of said substrate. 23. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said combined process and purge gases exit said processing chamber through an exhaust system. 24. The apparatus of claim 20 where in an outlet of said purge gas disperser is positioned within a surface of said housing. 25. An apparatus for minimizing CVD reactant deposition on a selected region of a substrate, said apparatus comprising: means for supporting said substrate during processing; first gas dispersing means comprising a stationary showerhead having a plurality of holes, said first gas dispersing means for supplying a process gas through said plurality of holes to a front surface of said substrate; and second gas dispersing means for delivering a purge gas toward said selected region such that said purge gas contacts said selected region, said second gas dispersing means being positioned in surface that is not in mechanical contact with the substrate. 26. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a housing forming a processing chamber; means for supporting a substrate in said processing chamber during substrate processing; first gas dispersing means, opposing a front surface of said substrate and comprising a stationary showerhead having a plurality of holes, for introducing a process gas toward said front surface of said substrate through said plurality of holes to deposit a layer of material on said substrate, said process gas comprising a product gas and a reactant gas; second gas dispersing means, positioned in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with said substrate and that is below said substrate, for introducing a purge gas beneath said substrate such that said purge gas flows across a peripheral region of a back surface of said substrate and then across an edge of said substrate, said purge gas comprising a nonreactive gas; and gas pumping means for establishing a flow of said process gas and said purge gas such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, combines with said purge gas near said edge of said substrate, and exits said processing chamber. 27. An apparatus for minimizing CVD reactant deposition on a selected region of a substrate, said apparatus comprising: a housing forming a processing chamber; a substrate holder, located within said chamber, having a first surface adapted to support a substrate being processed in said chamber; a first gas disperser, positioned opposite said first surface of said substrate holder and comprising a gas showerhead having a plurality of holes, said first gas disperser disposed to introduce a process gas through said plurality of holes in said showerhead in a uniform flow across an entire upper surface of said substrate to deposit a substantially uniform film on said substrate while said showerhead is stationary; a second, stationary gas disperser, having an outlet located below said upper surface of said substrate holder in a surface that is not in mechanical contact with said substrate, said second gas disperser disposed to introduce a constant flow of purge gas through said outlet into said chamber during substrate processing such that said purge gas flows across a peripheral region of a lower surface of said substrate and across an edge of said substrate to prevent said process gas from contacting said peripheral region of said lower surface of said substrate; and a gas pumping system that establishes a flow of said process gas and said purge gas such that said process gas flows radially across said substrate, combines with said purge gas near said edge of said substrate, and exits said processing chamber. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said outlet of said second gas disperser is within a surface of said housing. 