A method and apparatus for identifying the position of an object that is movable in a determined three-dimensional zone by means of a video camera (20) or the like mounted on the movable object (14), the camera (20) being capable of being swivelled to sight targets (22) disposed around the movable object (14) and to enable the position and the orientation of said object to be determined accurately by triangulation. The invention is particularly applicable to accurately determining the position and the orientation of a sensor or a tool mounted on a robot.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of identifying the position in three dimensions of a movable object carried by a robot, the method comprising the steps of: swivel-mounting a photosensitive detector on the movable object so as to be capable of being swivelled about at least one axis on said object, the detector having an optical axis; sighting with the detector targets disposed at predetermined known locations relative to a displacement zone of the movable object, the targets being sighted by swivelling the detector about said axis on the movable object without displacing the movable object from its position and the detector generating signals corresponding to images of the sighted targets; detecting for each sighted target an angular position of the detector relative to the axis of the movable object; determining from said signals and from said angular position the position of the optical axis of the detector for each sighted target; and calculating the position and orientation of the movable object by triangulation from the positions of the optical axis of the detector. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of determining the position of the optical axis of the detector for each sighted target includes determining points of intersection of the optical axis of the detector and reference marks of the sighted targets and determining therefrom the positions, in three dimensions, of the optical axis of the detector. 3. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of determining parameters specific to means for swivelling the detector about the axis on the movable object to determine the position in three dimensions of the optical axis of the detector, said parameters comprising errors of concurrence and orthogonality between the optical axis of the detector and said axis on the movable object. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein said detector is swivelled by a swivelling means and said method further comprises a prior calibration step during which parameters specific to said swivelling means are determined. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of swivelling the detector on the movable object includes rotating the detector in a stepwise manner about the axis on the movable object to occupy angular positions that are defined with a high degree of repeatability and the method further comprises the step of providing a prior calibration operation during which relative positions of the optical axis of the detector are accurately determined for each of said angular positions of the detector. 6. A method according to claim 1, further comprising a prior calibration step during which positions and orientations of the targets are accurately determined by sighting each of the targets at least three times with the detector for different known positions of the movable object. 7. An apparatus for identifying the position in three dimensions of a movable object carried by a robot, the apparatus comprising a photosensitive detector which has an optical axis and which is carried by the movable object, means for swivelling the detector on said object about at least one axis, means for determining the angular position of the detector about said axis, targets disposed at determined known locations relative to a displacement zone of the movable object, control means for swivelling the detector in different angular positions about said axis to sight different targets without displacing the movable object, and data processing means connected to the detector to receive therefrom signals corresponding to images of said targets sighted by the detector when the movable object is not displaced from its position, wherein the position and orientation of said movable object are determined by triangulation utilizing said positions of the optical axis of the detector. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the detector is rotatably displaceable about two perpendicular axes on said movable object. 9. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the detector is displaceable in stepwise rotation to occupy predetermined angular positions about said axis, said angular positions being defined with a high degree of repeatability. 10. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the targets are located outside the displacement zone of the movable object. 11. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the targets comprise panels carrying a series of reference marks formed at predetermined intervals relative to one another. 12. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein each target includes two types of reference marks. 13. An apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the reference marks are spheres made of materials having determined capacities for reflecting and diffusing light. 14. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the targets are mounted in fixed manner on rigid supports that include means for absorbing vibration. 