An articulated arm is disclosed which can be used to firmly support and position a variety of medical tools, including surgical or diagnostic instruments flexibly in space. Though some of its sub-assemblies may be computer controlled, thus autonomous in accordance to some pre-programmed sequence, manual control is also possible. When its sub-assemblies are suitably controlled using computer software, and with a suitable cutting instrument, the arm is capable of generating a barrel shape cavity or, for that matter, any desired shape of cavity (or treatment volume) that is within the work envelope of the arm. The ideal position of the focal point is dynamically variable as required, either with respect to the tool or the absolute frame of reference, during an intervention. A suitable type of intervention is minimally invasive surgery (MIS). Apart from cutting (or resection), the articulated arm, by virtue of its robotic nature, can also be used to perform such tasks as biopsies and radiation seed implantation, where positional accuracy and repeatability are highly desirable. The articulated arm is a universal computer assisted holder for a wide range of medical tools, in particular endoscopes for treatment of urological disorders.
Claims It is claimed: 1. An articulated arm for performing medical procedures with a medical tool, the arm comprising: an arcuate member slidably mounted on a first movable support member; a tool holder for holding the medical tool in an operational position, said tool holder being carried by the arcuate member; and, a first drive assembly provided on said first support member for slidably moving said arcuate member with said tool holder, wherein said tool holder can be moved along an arcuate path so as to alter the operational position of the tool in a predetermined manner, and wherein said arcuate member is removably mounted on said first support member, and wherein another arcuate member having a different radius of curvature can be slidably mounted on the first support member. 2. An articulated arm as defined in claim 1, further comprising a second drive assembly provided in connection with said tool holder for moving said tool holder along a linear path, said linear path intersecting an axis passing through the centre of curvature of said arcuate path. 3. An articulated arm as defined in claim 1, wherein said tool holder comprises a slidable carriage provided with a pair of grooves adapted to receive a removable tool mounting bracket therein, each groove having an associated locking lever for locking the tool mounting bracket to the carriage, said locking levers having a flat provided along a longitudinal edge thereof whereby each of the locking levers can be rotated to a position where the flat is flush with the respective groove to facilitate insertion or removal of the tool mounting bracket. 4. An articulated arm as defined in claim 3, wherein said pair of grooves are one of a plurality of pairs of grooves provided in the carriage to allow the location of tool mounting bracket to be varied to vary the operational position of the medical tool. 5. An articulated arm as defined in claim 3, wherein said tool mounting bracket is in the form of a C-bracket forming one half of a bracket assembly, the other half of the bracket assembly being in the form of a clamping bracket adapted to clamp the C-bracket to a body of a medical tool. 6. An articulated arm as defined in claim 3, wherein said carriage is slidably mounted on a pair of guide rails and is provided with a rack and pinion arrangement for sliding movement of the carriage along said guide rails, the tool holder further comprising a motor for driving the rack and pinion arrangement to effect said sliding movement of the carriage. 7. An articulated arm as defined in claim 1, wherein said first support member is provided with first and second stiffening members between which said arcuate member is slidably supported. 8. An articulated arm as defined in claim 7, wherein said arcuate member is provided with an external gear profile and said first drive assembly includes a motor that engages with said external gear profile to slidably move the arcuate member along said arcuate path. 9. An articulated arm as defined in claim 2, further comprising a third drive assembly mechanically coupled to said first support member for pivoting said first support member about a first drive axis, whereby said tool holder carried by the arcuate member can also be pivoted about said first drive axis. 10. An articulated arm as defined in claim 9, wherein said first support member is coupled to said third drive assembly by means of a coupling adapted to produce an offset between said first drive axis and a longitudinal axis of said first support member whereby, in use, a central axis of the medical tool held in the tool holder intersects said first drive axis so as to define a pivot point of the tool. 11. An articulated arm as defined in claim 10, wherein said coupling is a removable coupling which can be replaced with a different coupling to produce a different offset so as to accommodate a different medical tool. 12. An articulated arm as defined in claim 9, further comprising a second support member for supporting said third drive assembly, said second support member being provided with a fourth drive assembly for moving said third drive assembly in a linear direction whereby, in use, said tool holder together with the arcuate member can also be moved in said linear direction. 13. An articulated arm as defined in claim 12, wherein each of said first, second, third and fourth drive assemblies include an electric drive motor and wherein each of said drive assemblies are under the control of a microprocessor based multi-axis motion control system. 14. An articulated arm as defined in claim 12, wherein said second support member is suspended on a counterbalance support system providing at least four degrees of freedom of movement. 15. An articulated arm as defined in claim 14, wherein said counterbalance support system is provided with first and second mutually perpendicular support arms allowing X and Y axis movement respectively of the articulated arm, and a vertical support column allowing Z axis movement of the articulated arm. 16. An articulated arm as defined in claim 15, wherein said articulated arm is slidably mounted on said first support arm by means of said second support member, said first support arm is slidably mounted on said second support arm, and said second support arm is slidably mounted on said support column, and wherein each of said first and second support arms and said second support member can be locked in position by respective first, second and third locking means. 17. An articulated arm as defined in claim 16, wherein sliding movement of each support arm of the counterbalance support system is effected by a cable and pulley system, and wherein said locking means comprises a cable clamp. 18. An articulated arm as defined in claim 15, wherein said slidable mounting of the second support arm is provided with a swing bracket assembly to enable the second support arm to pivot horizontally about its slidable mounting on the support column. 19. An articulated arm as defined in claim 18, wherein said counterbalance support system further comprises a trolley forming a base on which the vertical support column is mounted, and having a plurality of shelves provided thereon for supporting other equipment. 