A method and apparatus for sequencing views retrieved from a spherical still image file provide the viewer the perception of video performance with low bandwidth transmission. The method incorporates digital transmission and automatic sequencing of the playback of the view. The apparatus provides video-motion rate images via low bandwidth digital transmissions or small data files from a still image taken of an inanimate environment. The resulting method and apparatus allows the viewer to experience a video display of any environment (for example, real estate locations, malls, museums, and hotels) and view a "video" tour of the location through a low bandwidth transmission.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for sequencing images from a single still image data file providing the perception of video from batch data files which comprises: a camera image capture system for receiving optical images and for producing output corresponding to said optical images; a lens attached to said camera imaging system for producing hemispherical optical images, for optical conveyance to said camera imaging system; a positioning device that registers both hemispheres so as to create a set of two hemispheres thereby creating a spherical image of a remote environment; an image scanning means for receiving said output from said camera imaging system and for digitizing said output signals from said camera imaging system; a command data file means that sequences said images so as to deliver an apparently video experience; a data transmission means for sending said image and said command data files to personal computers worldwide; a personal computer means for executing image transform processes for processing said data in a sequence controlled by said command sequencing data or by user input moving input image according to selected viewing angles and magnification, and for producing sequenced output images; output display means for user viewing of image sequence; input means for selecting said viewing angles and magnification with either mouse, keyboard, or other means that controls a hand for navigating the image or a magnifying glass for zooming on the image. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the environments in the image can be distributed via digital networks in a batch operation similar to still images, but can be viewed in a continuous mode similar to video. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the user can take control of the image and control the direction of view in any direction. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein links to audio, flat images, text, graphics, video clips and other spherical photographs can be accomplished. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the techniques applied to still images can be applied to video data files as the bandwidth available for distribution increases. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein said input means further provides for input of a selected portion and magnification of said view to said transform processor means by way of a simple pointing user interface where motion direction is controlled by the direction the hand points in and velocity is controlled by the distance from the center of the display. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein the transform is performed at rates at or approaching video rates resulting in a sequenced image presentation that provides the user with the perception of video without a continuous update of the input data. 