Computer implemented systems and methods for removing bone cement or other material to replace a bone prosthesis is provided. A computer aided method of replacing a bone prosthesis according to the present invention comprises the steps of: receiving as input image data of a bone; identifying bounding contours of material in the image data surrounding a first bone prosthesis for removal; and generating system contours from the bounding contours, the system contours specifying a cavity to be cut in the bone to accommodate a second bone prosthesis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing a cut file useful for controlling a robotic system for replacing a bone prosthesis, said method comprising the steps of: receiving image data comprising an image of a bone; identifying bounding contours of a non-bone material surrounding a first bone prosthesis to be removed in the image data; generating system contours from the bounding contours, the system contours specifying a cavity to be cut in the bone to accommodate a second bone prosthesis; generating a cut file from the system contours for use by the robotic system; and storing the cut file in a tangible medium. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the bounding contours specify a plurality of regions at varying depths. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of generating the system contours from the bounding contours includes the step of enlarging a region at a depth to allow the cavity to be cut. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of generating a check file that specifies desired characteristics of the cavity. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of verifying that the second bone prosthesis is insertable in the cavity. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of receiving input from a user to select the second bone prosthesis from a plurality of prostheses. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of displaying on a display screen a plurality of cross-sectional views of the bone. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of displaying the bounding contours and system contours on the plurality of cross-sectional views. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of receiving input from a user to generate a cross-sectional view at a desired location. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of displaying on a display screen a three-dimensional model of the cavity. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of receiving input from a user to modify the bounding contours. 12. A computer program product for replacing a bone prosthesis, comprising: computer readable code for receiving image data of a bone; computer readable code for identifying bounding contours of a non-bone material in the image data, wherein said material surrounding a first bone prosthesis for removal; computer readable code for generating system contours from the bounding contours, the system contours specifying a cavity to be cut in the bone to accommodate a second bone prosthesis; computer readable code for generating a cut file from the system contours; and a tangible medium for storing the computer readable codes. 