An end effector for use with an industrial robot and capable of holding a stack of substantially flat, folded articles. The end effector includes a body which defines a vacuum chamber. The vacuum chamber has a port which may be coupled to a vacuum source and an opening or vacuum face which is positioned in spaced relation relative to the port. Sealing material is mounted on a portion of the peripheral edge of the vacuum face, and a first blade is mounted on the peripheral edge of the vacuum face adjacent to the strip of sealing material. A second blade is mounted on a third portion of the peripheral edge of the vacuum face in axial opposition to the first blade so that the two blades face one another. A second strip of sealing material is mounted on a fourth portion of the peripheral edge of the vacuum face. The first and second blades and sealing material ensure a proper vacuum seal between the end effector and the articles of interest. Preferably, both of the blades are grooved and at least one of the blades is movable by means of a linear slide.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector for use with a robot, the end effector comprising: a body defining a vacuum chamber, the vacuum chamber having a port capable of being coupled to a vacuum source, the vacuum chamber further having; an opening positioned in spaced relation relative to the port and having a peripheral edge; a first strip of sealing material mounted along a portion of the peripheral edge of the opening; and a first blade for being inserted into a container holding a plurality of flattened articles and having a grooved surface, the first blade mounted along the peripheral edge of the opening adjacent to the strip of sealing material and along a second portion of the peripheral edge of the opening; wherein the end effector is capable of holding a plurality of stacked, substantially flat articles when the port is coupled to the vacuum source and a vacuum is being applied through the port. 2. An end effector as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a means for mounting the end effector to the robot. 3. An end effector as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a second strip of sealing material mounted along a third portion of the peripheral edge of the vacuum face; and a second blade for being inserted into a container holding a plurality of flattened articles and having a grooved surface, the second blade mounted along a fourth portion of the peripheral edge of the opening and adjacent to both the first strip of sealing material and the second strip of sealing material. 4. An end effector as claimed in claim 3, and wherein the the first and second blades are pentagonally shaped. 5. An end effector as claimed in claim 3, and wherein the the first and second blades are manufactured from polymeric material. 6. An end effector as claimed in claim 3, and wherein the vacuum chamber includes a linear slide which permits one of the blades to move along an axis. 7. An end effector as claimed in claim 1, and wherein the vacuum chamber further includes a plurality of bores, the plurality of bores positioned in the vacuum chamber according to a predetermined pattern. 8. An end effector as claimed in claim 7, further comprising a flange having a plurality of bores and mounted to the vacuum chamber so that the plurality of bores of the flange are aligned with the plurality of bores of the vacuum chamber. 9. An end effector as claimed in claim 1, and wherein the body is manufactured from stainless steel. 10. An end effector as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a vacuum sensor mounted on the vacuum chamber and capable of sensing the vacuum pressure in the vacuum chamber. 11. A vacuum chamber capable of being mounted on a robot arm, the vacuum chamber comprising: a base having a peripheral edge and a first bore, the first bore capable of being coupled to a vacuum source; a pair of first side walls mounted on the base, near the peripheral edge, each of the first side wails having a strip-like surface, the first side walls mounted on the base so as to be substantially perpendicular thereto; a first strip of sealing material mounted on the strip-like surface of one of the first side walls; a second strip of sealing material mounted on the strip-like surface of the other of the first side walls; a pair of second side walls mounted on the base, near the peripheral edge, the second side walls mounted on the base so as to be substantially perpendicular thereto; a first blade for being inserted into a container holding a plurality of flattened articles and having a grooved surface, the first blade mounted on one of the second side walls; and a second blade for being inserted into a container holding a plurality of flattened articles and having a grooved surface, the second blade mounted on the other of the second side walls. 12. A vacuum chamber as claimed in claim 11, further comprising a means for connecting the base to the robot. 13. A vacuum chamber as claimed in claim 11, and wherein the first and second blades are pentagonally shaped. 14. A vacuum chamber as claimed in claim 11, and wherein the first and second blades are manufactured from polymeric material. 15. A vacuum chamber as claimed in claim 11, and wherein the base further includes a plurality of second bores, the plurality of second bores positioned in the base according to a predetermined pattern. 16. A vacuum chamber as claimed in claim 15, further comprising a flange having a plurality of bores and mounted to the base so that the plurality of bores of the flange are aligned with the plurality of second bores of the base. 17. A vacuum chamber as claimed in claim 11, and wherein the base, the pair of first side walls, and the pair of second side walls are manufactured from steel. 18. A vacuum chamber as claimed in claim 11, and wherein the base, the pair of first side walls, and the pair of second side walls are integral with one another. 19. An industrial robot comprising: a robot arm; and an end effector mounted on the robot arm, the end effector including; a body defining a vacuum chamber, the vacuum chamber having a port capable of being coupled to a vacuum source, the vacuum chamber further having; an opening positioned in spaced relation relative to the port and having a peripheral edge; a first strip of sealing material mounted along a portion of the peripheral edge of the opening; and a first blade for being inserted into a container holding a plurality of flattened articles and having a grooved surface, the first blade mounted along the peripheral edge of the opening adjacent to the strip of sealing material, and along a second portion of the peripheral edge of the opening; wherein the end effector is capable of holding a plurality of stacked, substantially flat articles when the port is coupled to the vacuum source and a vacuum is being applied through the port. 20. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 19, further comprising a means for mounting the end effector to the robot. 21. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 19, further comprising a second strip of sealing material mounted on a third portion of the peripheral edge of the vacuum face; and a blade for being inserted into a container holding a plurality of flattened articles and having a grooved surface, the second blade mounted on a fourth portion of the peripheral edge of the vacuum face and adjacent to both the first strip of sealing material and the second strip of sealing material. 22. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 21, and wherein the first and second blades are pentagonally shaped. 23. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 21, and wherein the the first and second blades are manufactured from polymeric material. 24. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 19, and wherein the vacuum chamber includes a linear slide which permits one of the blades to move along an axis. 25. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 19, and wherein the vacuum chamber further includes a plurality of bores, the plurality of bores positioned in the vacuum chamber according to a predetermined pattern. 26. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 25, further comprising a flange having a plurality of bores and mounted to the vacuum chamber so that the plurality of bores of the flange are aligned with the plurality of bores of the vacuum chamber. 27. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 19, and wherein the body is manufactured from stainless steel. 28. An industrial robot as claimed in claim 19, further comprising a vacuum sensor mounted on the vacuum chamber and capable of sensing the vacuum pressure in the vacuum chamber. 