Solid phase combinatorial synthesis is carried out in a multi-reactor synthesizer comprising an array of separate reactor cells containing a solid reaction support medium. Subsets of reactor cells are interconnected with one another in a desired pattern, and, in a first reaction step, reagents are circulated through the subsets. After the first reaction step is completed, the reactor cells are rearranged into a new configuration of subsets, and the same, or other, reagents are circulated through the new subsets. The process can be repeated to produce large numbers of compounds differing from one another.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-reactor synthesizer for combinatorial chemistry comprising: a set of reactor cells, each reactor cell having an inlet and an outlet; pumping means for producing separate flow of plural reagents; and means for interconnecting said reactor cells with one another and with said pumping means to establish plural reagent flow paths, with a different reagent in each of said flow paths and with a subset of said reactor cells in each of said flow paths, each subset consisting of a plurality of said reactor cells connected in series; in which the reactor cells are connectible to, and disconnectible from, one another so that new plural reagent flow paths can be established through different subsets of said reactor cells, each of said different subsets also consisting of a plurality of said reactor cells connected in series. 2. A multi-reactor synthesizer according to claim 1 including means for returning each reagent from the subset of reactor cells through which the reagent flows to said pumping means, whereby a continuous flow of reagent is effected in each flow path. 3. A multi-reactor synthesizer according to claim 1 including means for holding the reactor cells in fixed positions while reagents are flowing through the reactor cells, and in which each reactor cell is movable from any one of said fixed positions to any other one of said fixed positions, whereby the reactors can be rearranged to provide different subsets of series-connected reactors. 4. A multi-reactor synthesizer according to claim 1 in which the inlet of each reactor cell is directly connectible to the outlet of every other reactor cell, whereby subsets of reactor cells can be assembled by rearranging reactor cells without interconnecting the cells by means of separate conduits. 5. A multi-reactor synthesizer according to claim 1 in which each reactor cell has two opposite ends, in which the inlet of each reactor cell is at one end and the outlet of each reactor cell is at the other end, and in which the inlet of each reactor cell is connectible directly to the outlet of any other reactor cell, whereby subsets of reactor cells can be assembled by rearranging reactor cells without interconnecting the cells by means of separate conduits. 