A modular, transportable housing for storing substrates, such as semi-conductor wafers and masks, and for maintaining such substrates in a substantially clean environment. Substrates are supported within the housing by a plurality of combs which maintain the substrates in spaced relationship relative to each other. Access to the interior of the housing is permitted by a pivotal door assembly. A docking unit permits interface of the housing with a clean environment. Control circuitry provided in the docking unit detects the presence of a housing and loads/unloads the housing as directed by a host computer through a communication link. A memory device is preferably mounted to the housing for storing history and other information about the substrates within the housing. The host computer directs the control circuitry to retrieve the substrate information from the memory and relay the information to the host computer. During or after processing of the substrates, the host computer updates the memory as desired. In this manner, the host computer controls and tracks one or more docking units and associated substrate housings.
Claims We claim: 1. A docking unit for receiving a housing containing articles and for manipulating the housing to allow access of the articles while in the housing, the housing including a door and an interior space for holding the articles, the docking unit comprising: a bulkhead assembly defining a port area; a tray assembly mounted to said bulkhead assembly for receiving the housing and for allowing movement of the housing between an initial access position adjacent said bullhead assembly and an inserted access position within said bulkhead assembly while the housing is on said tray assembly; and a door drive assembly mounted to said bulkhead assembly for interfacing the door of the housing when the housing is in said initial access position and for opening and closing the housing door, wherein the interior of the housing is accessible via said port area when the housing door is open. 2. The docking unit of claim 1, wherein said tray assembly comprises: guide rails; a tray for receiving and holding the housing, said tray slidably engaging said guide rails; a drive assembly operatively engaged with said tray; a gearbox operatively engaging said drive assembly; and a tray motor operatively engaged with said gearbox for moving the housing between said initial and said inserted access positions. 3. The docking unit of claim 2, further comprising: said tray assembly further including a retracted position for laterally receiving the housing before the housing is moved to said initial access position; a tray location flag mounted to said drive assembly indicative of the position of said tray; a tray retracted sensor positioned to interface said tray location flag when said tray is in said retracted position; a tray middle sensor positioned to interface said tray location flag when said tray is in said retracted position; a tray middle sensor positioned to interface said tray location flag when said tray is in said access position; a tray inserted sensor positioned to interface said tray location flag when said tray is in said inserted access position; and a controller coupled to said tray motor and said tray sensors, said controller receiving signals from said tray sensors and controlling said tray motor to control the position of said tray. 4. The docking unit of claim 1, wherein said door drive assembly comprises: a pivot assembly for interfacing the door of the housing; and a door motor operatively engaging said pivot assembly for pivotally opening and closing the housing door. 5. The docking unit of claim 4, further comprising: a door flag mounted to said pivot assembly indicative of the position of said door motor; a door closed sensor positioned to interface said door flag when said tray is in said initial access position and the housing door is closed; a door opened sensor positioned to interface said door flag when said tray is in said initial access position and the housing door is open; and a controller coupled to said door motor and said door sensors, said controller receiving signals from said door sensors and controlling said door motor to open and close the housing door. 6. The docking unit of claim 1, wherein the housing includes a door actuator assembly connected to the housing door which operatively engages said pivot assembly when the housing is in said initial access position, wherein said door drive assembly simultaneously opens and closes the housing door. 7. The docking unit of claim 1, wherein the housing includes a latch for locking the housing door, said docking unit further comprising: a cam follower assembly mounted to said tray assembly and operatively engaging the latch of the housing for locking and unlocking the housing door while in said initial access position; and a cam assembly mounted to said bulkhead assembly and operatively engaging said cam follower assembly. 8. The docking unit of claim 7, further comprising: said cam assembly including a cam motor operatively engaging a cam, wherein said cam engages said cam follower assembly; a latch flag operatively engaged with said cam assembly having a position indicative of the position of said cam; a latch locked sensor positioned to interface said latch flag when said tray is in said initial access position and the housing door is locked; a latch unlocked sensor positioned to interface said latch flag when said tray is in said initial access position and the housing door is unlocked; and a controller coupled to said cam motor and said latch sensors, said controller receiving signals from said latch sensors and controlling said cam motor to lock and unlock the housing door. 9. The docking unit of claim 1, wherein the housing includes a memory device mounted to the housing for storing information of the articles within the housing, said docking unit further comprising: a communication link mounted to said tray assembly for electrically interfacing said memory device when the housing is placed on said tray assembly; and a processing system electrically coupled to said communication link, wherein said processing system detects the presence of said memory device and the housing when placed on said tray assembly, wherein said processor system thereafter retrieves said stored information from said memory device. 10. The docking unit of claim 9, wherein said information stored in said memory device includes identification and history of the articles in the housing. 11. The docking unit of claim 9, further comprising: said tray assembly further including a retracted position for laterally receiving the housing before the housing is moved to said initial access position, and said processing system being electrically coupled to control said tray assembly and said door drive assembly and further electrically coupled to said communication link, wherein said processing system periodically polls said communication link for determining the presence of said memory device and the housing and wherein said processing system moves the housing to said initial access position upon detecting the presence of the housing. 12. The docking unit of claim 11, further comprising: a button coupled to said processing system, and wherein said processing system moves the housing to said initial access position from said retracted position when the housing is detected present and after said button is pressed. 13. The docking unit of claim 12, wherein said processing system comprises: a controller including a second communication link; and a host computer coupled to said controller through said second communication link, wherein said host computer queries the controller for the status of the housing, wherein said controller respondingly indicates whether the housing is present and if so, the position of the housing on the docking unit. 14. The docking unit of claim 13, wherein said host computer sends an insert command to the controller when the housing is in said initial access position, wherein said controller respondingly opens the housing door and places the housing in said inserted access position. 15. The docking unit of claim 13, wherein said host computer further queries said controller about the articles in the housing and said controller respondingly retrieves said information from said memory device and provides said information to said host computer. 16. The docking unit of claim 13, wherein said host computer sends updated information to said controller, which respondingly writes said updated information to said memory device. 17. The docking unit of claim 13, wherein said host computer sends a retract command to the controller when the housing is in said inserted access position, wherein said controller respondingly moves the housing to said initial access position and closes the housing door. 18. The docking unit of claim 1, further comprising: a top plate removeably mounted to said bulkhead assembly; and a bottom plate mounted to said bulkhead assembly, wherein said top plate is removed and replaced by a bottom plate of a second docking unit in a stacked configuration. 19. A docking system adjacent a mini environment for maintaining a plurality of substrates in a substantially clean environment and for allowing access of the substrates from the mini environment, the docking system comprising: a portable housing, comprising: a container having an interior space and an opening, a plurality of substrate supports mounted within said container for receiving and supporting the plurality of substrates in spaced relationship relative to each other, and a door pivotally mounted to said container for covering said opening when said door is in a closed position; a bulkhead assembly defining a port area that is accessible from the mini environment; a tray assembly mounted to said bullhead assembly for receiving said housing and for moving said housing between an initial access position adjacent said bulkhead assembly and an inserted access position within said bulkhead assembly while said housing is on said tray assembly: and a door drive assembly mounted to said bulkhead assembly for interfacing said door of said housing when said housing is in said initial access position and for opening and closing said housing door, wherein said interior of said housing is accessible via said port area and said mini environment when said door of said housing is open. 20. The docking system of claim 19, further comprising: a port door pivotally connected to said bulkhead assembly for separating said port area from ambient air when said port door is in a closed position. 21. The docking system of claim 20, wherein said housing further comprises: a door actuator assembly connected to said door of said housing, said door actuator assembly operatively engaging said port door and said door drive assembly so that said port door and said housing door are simultaneously opened and closed by said door drive assembly. 22. The docking system of claim 21, further comprising: said door actuator assembly including a pivotal door assembly for pivotally moving said housing door relative to said housing; and said door drive assembly including a pivotal key operated actuator which operatively engages said pivotal door assembly when said housing is in said initial access position. 23. The docking system of claim 22, further comprising: a track assembly mounted to said box, said track assembly including one or more tracks each having a channel for slidably engaging said pivotal door assembly, wherein after said housing door is opened by said door drive assembly and placed in a stowed position above said housing, said housing door remains stationary in said stowed position while said tray assembly moves said housing into said inserted access position. 24. The docking system of claim 19, further comprising: said tray assembly further including a retracted position for laterally receiving said housing, wherein said tray assembly and housing are subsequently moved to said initial access position. 25. A method for positioning a housing in proximity to a selected environment, comprising the steps of: positioning said housing in a retracted position atop a movable tray of a docking unit, said housing having a door permitting access to an interior cavity within said housing; moving said tray to thereby move said housing to a middle position relative to said docking unit; simultaneously pivoting said housing door and a door of said docking unit adjacent to said housing door, and moving said tray to thereby move said housing to an inserted position relative to said docking unit, said inserted position being in proximity to said selected environment. 26. A method for positioning a housing, as recited in claim 25, further comprising the step of sensing the position of said tray at said retracted position, said middle position, and said inserted position. 27. A method for positioning a housing, as recited in claim 25, further comprising the step of unlocking said housing door prior to said step of simultaneously pivoting said housing door and said docking unit door. 28. A method for positioning a housing, as recited in claim 27, wherein said step of unlocking said housing door comprises the step of actuating a cam assembly to engage a housing door latch. 29. A method for positioning a housing, as recited in claim 25, further comprising the steps of retracting said tray to said middle position and simultaneously closing said housing door and said docking unit door after said step of moving said tray to said inserted position. 