An integrated wafer loader is provided for use with a vacuum process chamber. At least one semipermeable membrane provided in the separator between upper and lower chambers of a load lock permits air flow while preventing particulate matter transfer. A micro-environment container is sealed within the upper chamber and a vacuum simultaneously produced in both upper and lower chambers. A movable carrier plate opens the micro-environment container and removes a cassette of wafers from therein and into the lower chamber. The micro-environment container remains supported by the separator and forms an impermeable barrier between the chambers. Wafers are transferred from the cassette to the process environment, and returned to the cassette after processing has been completed. The carrier plate returns the cassette containing the processed wafers to the micro-environment container for removal from the load lock chamber.
Claims I claim: 1. A wafer loading apparatus comprising: a load lock chamber for use with a process environment, said load lock chamber having an upper chamber for receiving a micro-environment container therein, and a lower chamber; a separator between said upper and lower chambers, said separator having least one aperture formed therethrough; movable carrier plate selectably operable to open and close said micro-environment container and to selectably remove a cassette of wafers from said micro-environment container and into said lower chamber, wherein said micro-environment container is supported by said separator to form an impermeable barrier between said lower chamber and said upper chamber; and a semipermeable barrier in said at least one aperture to prevent any particulate material in said upper chamber from entering said lower chamber; wherein said upper and lower chambers may be simultaneously evacuated. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said micro-environment container is a SMIF box. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said semipermeable barrier is a semipermeable membrane. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said semipermeable barrier is a non-shedding, non-outgassing, high efficiency filtration system. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said semipermeable barrier is selected from the group consisting of High Efficiency Particulate Air and Ultra Low Particulate Air filters. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said semipermeable barrier traps particles equal to, or greater than 0.01 .mu.m in size. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an end-effector having one or more wafer transports. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for transferring a wafer from said cassette to said process environment. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said transferring means transfers one wafer at a time to said process environment. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said transferring means transfers multiple wafers at one time to said process environment. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus is operable with horizontal and vertical wafer loading configurations. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means to produce a vacuum in said upper and lower chambers. 13. A system for loading wafers from a micro-environment container to a process environment, comprising: a load lock chamber for use with a process environment, said load lock chamber having an upper chamber for receiving a micro-environment container therein, and a lower chamber; a separator between said upper and lower chambers, said separator having at least one aperture formed therethrough; a movable carrier plate selectably operable to open and close said micro-environment container and to selectably remove a cassette of wafers from said micro-environment container and into said lower chamber, wherein said micro-environment container is supported by said separator to form an impermeable barrier between said lower chamber and said upper chamber; a semipermeable membrane in said at least one aperture to prevent any particulate material in said upper chamber from entering said lower chamber; an end-effector having one or more wafer transports; a vacuum pump for simultaneously producing a vacuum in said upper and lower chambers; and means for transferring a wafer from said cassette to said process environment. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said semipermeable barrier is a non-shedding, non-outgassing, high efficiency filtration system. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said semipermeable barrier is selected from the group consisting of High Efficiency Particulate Air and Ultra Low Particulate Air filters. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said semipermeable barrier traps particles equal to, or greater than 0.01 .mu.m in size. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said micro-environment container is a SMIF box. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said semipermeable barrier is selected from the group consisting of High Efficiency Particulate Air and Ultra Low Particulate Air filters. 19. A method for wafer loading, comprising the steps of: dividing a load lock chamber into upper and lower chambers with a separator having at least one aperture formed therethrough; providing a semipermeable membrane in said at least one aperture to prevent any particulate material in said upper chamber from entering said lower chamber; inserting a micro-environment container into said upper chamber; providing a movable carrier plate to selectably open and close said micro-environment container and to selectably remove a cassette of wafers from said micro-environment container and into said lower chamber; supporting said micro-environment container by said separator to form an impermeable barrier between said lower chamber and said upper chamber; simultaneously producing a vacuum in said upper and lower chambers; and transferring a wafer from said cassette to said process environment. 20. A semiconductor fabrication system, comprising: a plurality of processing chambers; at least one transfer chamber; means for transferring wafers between said transfer chamber and one or more of said processing chambers; and at least one load lock having an upper chamber for receiving a micro-environment container therein, and a lower chamber in communication with said transfer chamber; said load lock further comprising: a separator between said upper and lower chambers, said separator having at least one aperture formed therethrough; a movable carrier plate selectably operable to open and close said micro-environment container and to selectably remove a cassette of wafers from said micro-environment container and into said lower chamber, wherein said micro-environment container is supported by said separator to form an impermeable barrier between said lower chamber and said upper chamber; and a semipermeable barrier in said at least one aperture to prevent any particulate material in said upper chamber from entering said lower chamber; wherein said upper and lower chambers may be simultaneously evacuated. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said micro-environment container is a SMIF box. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein said semipermeable barrier is a semipermeable membrane. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein said semipermeable barrier is a non-shedding, non-outgassing, high efficiency filtration system. 24. The system of claim 20, wherein said semipermeable barrier is selected from the group consisting of High Efficiency Particulate Air and Ultra Low Particulate Air filters. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein said semipermeable barrier traps particles equal to, or greater than 0.01 .mu.m in size. 26. The system of claim 20, said transfer chamber further comprising an end-effector having one or more wafer transports. 27. The system of claim 20, wherein said load lock is operable with horizontal and vertical wafer loading configurations. 28. The system of claim 20, further comprising means to produce a vacuum in said upper and lower chambers. 