The invention comprises an instrument which is placed in relation to the designated object and which is capable of sending information about the object to a computer. Image processing methods are used to generated images of the object and determine positional information about it. This information can be used as input to robotic devices or can be rendered, in various ways (video graphics, speech synthesis), to a human user. Various input apparatus are attached to the transmitting or other used instruments to provide control inputs to the computer.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of creating a multiscale image of an anatomical feature within a patient's body comprising the steps of: generating a static image of the anatomical feature as it would appear from a predetermined vantage point within the patient's body; inserting an instrument into the patient's body, the instrument having a means for transmitting visual images, including at least one image appearing from said predetermined vantage point, out of the patient's body; transmitting a live image of an area of the anatomical feature, including said at least one image appearing from said predetermined vantage point, out of the patient's body; and displaying a composite image having said static image at a first magnification scale and having said live image of said area at a second magnification scale, said second magnification scale larger than said first magnification scale, said live image overlaying a portion of said static image, so that said overlaid portion is displayed as a magnified window of said area at a proper registration within said static image. 2. A method of creating a multiscale image of an anatomical feature within a patient's body, as in claim 1, in which said step of generating a static image includes generating a computer-graphic rendering of an interior area of the patient's body, said interior area encompassing said anatomical feature. 3. A method of creating a multiscale image of an anatomical feature within a patient's body, as in claim 2, in which said computer-graphic rendering is based on images transmitted from the interior of the patient's body. 