This invention provides a finger with three phalanges and three degrees of freedom for a flexible and versatile mechanical gripper which uses only a limited number of actuators. The finger is robust, can provide large grasping forces and can perform power grasps as well as pinch grasps. The mechanism used in the finger has an additional mechanism maintaining the last phalanx orthogonal to the palm in order to allow the gripper to perform pinch grasps on objects of different sizes. For purposes of fine control, tactile sensors as well as potentiometers are included in the finger. The mechanical gripper designed using these fingers allows the stable grasping of a wide class of objects while specifying only two coordinates (the force or position for closing the whole finger and the orientation of the finger) for each of the fingers. The mechanical gripper has three fingers and three phalanges per finger. When performing a grasp, the fingers will progressively envelope the object to be grasped and eventually reach a static equilibrium. Underactuation between the fingers of the gripper is also possible.
Claims We claim: 1. A mechanical finger comprising: mounting means for mounting said finger to a mechanical palm of a gripping mechanism, said palm having a palm plane; a first phalanx pivotally connected at a proximal end by said mounting means to said palm; a second phalanx pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of the first phalanx; a third phalanx pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of the second phalanx, said first, second and third phalanges pivoting about parallel pivot axes; a differential driving actuation means connected to said first, second and third phalanges and a controllable actuator mounted to said palm, said actuation means either causing said first phalanx to pivot or said second phalanx to pivot depending on load on said first phalanx, and either causing said second phalanx to pivot or said third phalanx to pivot depending on load on said second phalanx, said first phalanx being pivoted by said differential actuator means before said second phalanx in absence of load on said first phalanx, and said second phalanx being pivoted by said differential actuator means before said third phalanx in absence of load on said second phalanx; and a return actuation means connected to said palm and said first, second and third phalanges for maintaining a contact surface of said third phalanx substantially orthogonal to said palm plane during movement of said controllable actuator when said first and second phalanges are under no load; wherein said driving actuation means comprises; first and second drive links pivotally connected at a radially inner end to said first and second phalanges respectively to pivot about said pivot axes thereof; a first drive coupling link pivotally connected at one end to said first drive link and at an opposite end to said second drive link; and a second drive coupling link pivotally connected at one and to said second drive link and at an opposite end to said third phalanx; said first drive link being connected to said controllable actuator, whereby said driving actuation means requires only four pivotally connected links to drive said phalanges. 2. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first coupling link is connected at said one end to a radially outer end of said first drive link and at said opposite end to a middle of said second drive link, said second coupling link is connected at said one end to a radially outer end of said second drive link, and said controllable actuator is connected to a middle of said first drive link. 3. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 2, wherein said return actuation means comprises: first and second return links pivotally connected at a radially inner end to said first and second phalanges respectively to pivot about said pivot axes thereof; a first return coupling link pivotally connected at one end to said first return link and at an opposite end to said second return link; a second return coupling link pivotally connected at one end to said second return link and at an opposite end to a return distal abutment link; a palm abutment mounted to said palm; first biasing means for biasing said first return link against said palm abutment; and second biasing means for biasing said third phalanx against said return distal abutment link, whereby said return actuation means requires only five pivotally connected links to maintain said third phalanx orthogonal to said palm. 4. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 3, wherein said first return coupling link is connected at said one end to a radially outer end of said first return link and at said opposite end to a radially outer end of said second return link, said second return coupling link pivotally connected at said one end radially inwardly from said radially outer end of said second return link. 5. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 2, wherein said differential driving actuation means includes a biasing means for biasing said second phalanx to open with respect to said first phalanx. 6. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 1, wherein said return actuation means comprises: first and second return links pivotally connected at a radially inner end to said first and second phalanges respectively to pivot about said pivot axes thereof; a first return coupling link pivotally connected at one end to said first return link and at an opposite end to said second return link; a second return coupling link pivotally connected at one end to said second return link and at an opposite end to a return distal abutment link; a palm abutment mounted to said palm; first biasing means for biasing said first return link against said palm abutment; and second biasing means for biasing said third phalanx against said return distal abutment link, whereby said return actuation means requires only five pivotally connected links to maintain said third phalanx orthogonal to said palm. 7. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 6, wherein said first return coupling link is connected at said one end to a radially outer end of said first return link and at said opposite end to a radially outer end of said second return link, said second return coupling link pivotally connected at said one end radially inwardly from said radially outer end of said second return link. 8. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 1, wherein said phalanges comprise hyperextension preventing stop means. 9. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 8, wherein said differential driving actuation means includes a biasing means for biasing said second phalanx to open with respect to said first phalanx. 10. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 1, wherein said differential driving actuation means includes a biasing means for biasing said second phalanx to open with respect to said first phalanx. 11. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 1, wherein said palm mounting means are pivotable about an axis orthogonal to said palm plane. 12. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said phalanges includes tactile sensors. 13. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 1, wherein said controllable actuator is an underactuated differential controllable actuator connected to a plurality of mechanical fingers. 14. A mechanical finger comprising: mounting means for mounting said finger to a mechanical palm of a gripping mechanism, said palm having a palm plane; a first phalanx pivotally connected at a proximal end by said mounting means to said palm; a second phalanx pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of the first phalanx; a third phalanx pivotally connected at a proximal end to a distal end of the second phalanx, said first, second and third phalanges pivoting about parallel pivot axes; a differential driving actuation means connected to said first, second and third phalanges and a controllable actuator mounted to said palm, said actuation means either causing said first phalanx to pivot or said second phalanx to pivot depending on load on said first phalanx, and either causing said second phalanx to pivot or said third phalanx to pivot depending on load on said second phalanx, said first phalanx being pivoted by said differential actuator means before said second phalanx in absence of load on said first phalanx, and said second phalanx being pivoted by said differential actuator means before said third phalanx in absence of load on said second phalanx; and a return actuation means connected to said palm and said first, second and third phalanges for maintaining a contact surface of said third phalanx substantially orthogonal to said palm plane during movement of said controllable actuator when said first and second phalanges are under no load; wherein said return actuation means comprises: first and second return links pivotally connected at a radially inner end to said first and second phalanges respectively to pivot about said pivot axes thereof; a first return coupling link pivotally connected at one end to said first return link and at an opposite end to said second return link; a second return coupling link pivotally connected at one end to said second return link and at an opposite end to a return distal abutment link; a palm abutment mounted to said palm; first biasing means for biasing said first return link against said palm abutment; and second biasing means for biasing said third phalanx against said return distal abutment link, whereby said return actuation means requires only five pivotally connected links to maintain said third phalanx orthogonal to said palm. 15. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 14, wherein said first return coupling link is connected at said one end to a radially outer end of said first return link and at said opposite end to a radially outer end of said second return link, said second return coupling link pivotally connected at said one end radially inwardly from said radially outer end of said second return link. 16. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 14, wherein said phalanges comprise hyperextension preventing stop means. 17. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 16, wherein said differential driving actuation means includes a biasing means for biasing said second phalanx to open with respect to said first phalanx. 18. The mechanical finger as claimed in claim 14, wherein said differential driving actuation means includes a biasing means for biasing said second phalanx to open with respect to said first phalanx. 