Methods for cleaning industrial tanks are disclosed in which a fast temporary seal is applied to a manway entry into a tank to be cleaned. A robotic tank cleaning system is introduced through the temporary seal into the tank. The tank interior is sprayed with diluent to remove liquid and solid volatile organic compound (VOC) generating residue. VOC's are removed from the tank by repetitive diesel and water/surfactant fogging until a safe, legal level of VOC's remains in the tank atmosphere.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for gas tight cleaning of industrial tanks which prevents significant outside venting of the tanks' atmosphere until a safe and legal volatile organic compound (VOC) level is obtained, comprising the steps of: (a) removing a manway cover on the top or side of the tank and immediately installing a flexible seal material over the manway opening to temporarily prevent significant venting of the tank atmosphere to the outside; (b) positioning a tank cleaning robot system in front of the manway opening and inserting said system through said flexible seal material into the tank interior, said system having a visual monitor, a directable fluid spray nozzle and on evacuation hose, and sealedly attaching said system to said manway opening; (c) sampling the internal atmosphere of said tank and analyzing the sample for VOC to establish a VOC baseline; (d) spraying a diluent at relatively high pressure and volume on the interior of the tank to flush away as much material capable of generating VOC's and removing such material from the tank; (e) spraying diesel fuel at a relatively lower pressure and volume into the tank to create a diesel fog in the tank and allowing the diesel fog to settle, thereby absorbing airborne VOC's; (f) spraying a water and surfactant mixture into the tank to create a water mist in the tank atmosphere and allowing the water mist to settle; (g) monitoring the VOC level in the tank and if necessary, repeating steps (e) and (f) to lower the VOC level to a safe and legal percentage of baseline. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the spraying steps (d), (e) and (f) are visually monitored by a closed circuit television system carried by said tank cleaning robot system. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the flexible seal material used to temporarily seal the manway opening is placed within 10 seconds of initial tank manway opening. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the flexible seal material comprises an approximately 10 millimeter sheet of polyethylene plastic. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the spraying step (d) of diluent is performed at approximately 225 to 300 pounds per square inch pressure at a rate of approximately 150 to 275 gallons per minute. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step (e) of diesel spraying is performed at 175 to 275 pounds per square inch pressure. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step (f) of water and surfactant spraying is performed at 175 to 275 pounds per square inch pressure. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein steps (e) and (f) are performed a sufficient number of times to lower the VOC level to 10% or less of the original VOC baseline value. 