A single-sided gasketed panel assembly for use as a flush-mounted panel or window in vehicles, buildings, or other structures, as well as a method and apparatus for making such panel assemblies, wherein the panel assembly comprises a sheet-like panel having; a primer layer and at least one polymeric gasket molded to the panel on the primer layer. The primer applied to the panel has a predetermined transition temperature above which improved adhesion properties are exhibited for polymeric gaskets molded thereon when the primer is at or above such temperature. The method for manufacturing the panel assembly includes applying a primer having a predetermined transition temperature as a coating to a surface of a panel, heating the panel and primer coating to a temperature at least equal to the transition temperature of the primer, and molding a gasket, preferably of a thermoplastic polymeric material, onto the surface of the heated panel and the primer coating while the temperature of the primer coating is at least equal to the primer transition temperature.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for manufacturing a panel assembly for closing a window opening in a vehicle and having a gasket on one surface thereof, comprising: providing a glass panel having opposing first and second surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge; applying a primer layer to a portion of one of said first and second surfaces, said primer forming said layer having a predetermined transition temperature of at least 200.degree. F. at or above which said primer layer exhibits improved adhesion properties for a polymeric material molded to said panel at or above such temperature; preheating said glass panel and said primer layer to a temperature at least equal to said transition temperature for said primer layer; and then molding a polymeric gasket onto said portion of one of said first and second surfaces of said glass panel and bonding said polymeric gasket thereto by said primer layer while said temperature of said glass panel and primer layer is at least equal to said primer transition temperature. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, further including cleaning said surface of said panel prior to applying said primer layer. 3. The method as defined in claim 1, further including drying said primer layer prior to heating and said panel. 4. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein providing said panel includes providing a panel having a frit layer on at least one surface, said primer layer being applied to said frit layer. 5. The method as defined in claim 1 further including post heating said primer layer to a temperature at least equal to said transition temperature. 6. The method as defined in claim 4, wherein heating said panel includes heating said frit layer to enhance bonding of said polymeric gasket to said panel. 7. The method as defined in claim 6, wherein heating said frit layer includes convective heating. 8. The method as defined in claim 6, wherein heating said frit layer includes conductive heating. 9. The method as defined in claim 1 further including transporting said panel to a different location for the step of molding subsequent to said heating step. 10. The method as defined in claim 9 wherein said step of transporting includes robotically transporting said panel. 11. The method as defined in claim 10 further including locating said panel on one matching face of an injection molding machine. 12. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein the step of locating includes robotically locating said panel in said injection molding machine. 13. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein molding said polymeric gasket onto said panel includes injection molding at a mold cavity fill pressure within the range of 15-25 psig. 14. The method as defined in claim 13, wherein said injection molding further includes injecting a polyvinyl chloride onto said panel to mold said polymeric gasket. 15. The method as defined in claim 14, wherein said injection molding further includes melting said polyvinyl chloride during injection at a temperature within the range of 350.degree. F.-410.degree. F. to form said polymeric gasket. 16. The method as defined in claim 15, wherein said injection molding includes injecting and holding said polyvinyl chloride at a mold cavity hold pressure of not more than 65 pounds per square inch gauge. 17. The method as defined in claim 16, further including packing said polyvinyl chloride to form said polymeric gasket at a mold cavity pack pressure not greater than 80 pounds per square inch gauge. 