Goniometers are provided having internal compensation employing two opposing variable resistance strain sensing elements separated by a flexible film. The goniometers may be used in sets for detecting complex hinge or joint movements, where patterns of hinge or joint positions may be used to define symbols. Algorithms are provided for parsing values from a system of goniometers in motion having information content.
Claims We claim: 1. A sensing assembly comprising: a goniometer comprising an inert thin electrically non-conductive flexible support backing; and a variable resistance strain sensing element affixed to said backing, said goniometer having a primary bend axis; means for electrically connecting said element; and a guiding element at a position proximal to one end connected to a position proximal to one end of said goniometer, said guiding element being flexible about a secondary bend axis non-intersecting with said primary bend axis and with said secondary bend axis at an angle to said primary bend axis, said guiding element being substantially rigid about an axis colinear with said primary bend axis, and said goniometer being substantially rigid about an axis colinear with said secondary bend axis. 2. A sensing assembly comprising: a goniometer comprising an inert thin electrically non-conductive flexible support backing; first and second variable resistance strain sensing elements affixed on opposite sides of said backing; and means for electrically connecting each of said elements; means for guiding said goniometer in a predetermined path, said guiding means at least partially encompassing said goniometer. 3. A sensing assembly according to claim 2, wherein said guiding means comprises a tubular member through which a portion of said goniometer moves. 4. A sensing assembly according to claim 3, further comprising a support material, wherein a portion of said goniometer is affixed to said support material. 5. A sensing assembly according to claim 4, wherein said support material is shaped to fit around a body part. 6. A hinged sensing assembly comprising: a goniometer comprising an inert thin electrically non-conductive flexible support backing; a variable resistance strain sensing element affixed on one side of said backing; and means for electrically connecting said element; a support structure having first and second members, wherein at least one of said members has a gap adjacent to the proximal edge of the other member; first and second hinged connecting means for connecting said first and second members, wherein said first and second connecting means cooperate to allow said first and second members to move in angular relation to each other and are separated by said gap; wherein said goniometer extends over said gap and is affixed to each of said members at opposite ends of said gap. 7. A hinged assembly according to claim 6, wherein said goniometer comprises a second variable resistance strain sensing element affixed to the opposite side of said backing and a second means for electrically connecting said second element. 8. A sensing system for measuring the rotation of one site relative to a second site of a structure about an axis, said system comprising: a goniometer comprising an inert thin electrically non-conductive coiled flexible support backing; a variable resistance strain sensing element affixed on one side of said backing having first and second ends; and means for electrically connecting said element; means for affixing said first end of said goniometer to said first site; means for affixing said second end of said goniometer to said second site. 9. An instrumented glove for use in a man-machine interface comprising a cover material configured to fit on the hand of a wearer, a plurality of goniometers supported by said cover material and each of said goniometers positioned to flex with movement of the hand, wherein each of said goniometers comprises a flexible, incompressible plastic film and first and second variable resistance strain sensing elements on opposing sides of said film, whereby flexure of each goniometer flexes said first variable resistance strain sensing element in compression and flexes said second variable resistance strain sensing element in tension, and means electrically connected to said plurality of strain sensing elements to the circuitry of the machine system. 10. An instrumented glove according to claim 9 comprising at least one abduction goniometer characterized by being mounted on edge in a U-shape in proximity to a trapeziometacarpal or metacarpophalangeal joint; or lying flat on the side of the index or small finger in proximity to the metacarpophalangeal joint; or mounted substantially straight on edge in line with and on the dorsal side of a trapeziometacarpal or metacarpophalangeal joint. 11. An instrumented glove according to claim 10, wherein at least one of a portion of the fingertips, or a portion of the palm of said glove, or a portion of the palm side of joints is absent or mesh. 12. An instrumented glove for use in a man-machine interface comprising a cover material configured to fit on the hand of a wearer, comprising a plurality of goniometers supported by said cover material and positioned to flex with movement of the hand, said cover material including guiding elements in which said goniometers are supported, each goniometer comprising a variable resistance strain sensing element mounted on a flexible support material, and means electrically connected to said plurality of strain sensing elements for transmitting changes in resistance of said plurality of strain sensing elements to circuitry of the machine system. 13. An instrumented glove according to claim 12, wherein said variable resistance strain sensing element is free to move at at least one end. 14. An instrumented glove according to claim 12 comprising at least one abduction goniometer characterized by being mounted on edge in a U-shape in proximity to a trapeziometacarpal or metacarpophalangeal joint; or lying flat on the side of the index or small finger in proximity to the metacarpophalangeal joint; or mounted substantially straight on edge in line with and on the dorsal side of a trapeziometacarpal or metacarpophalangeal joint. 15. An instrumented glove according to claim 12, wherein at least one of a portion of the fingertips, or a portion of the palm of said glove, or a portion of the palm side of joints is absent or mesh. 16. An instrumented glove for use in a man-machine interface according to claim 12, wherein each goniometer comprises from one to two variable resistance strain sensing elements, wherein when two sensing elements are used, they are mounted on opposite sides of said flexible support material, and means electrically connected to said plurality of strain sensing elements for transmitting changes in resistance of said plurality of strain sensing elements to circuitry of the machine system, said plurality of goniometers including goniometers being located: over more than one of the trapeziometacarpal, metacarpophalangeal or interphalangeal joints, or in response to the rotation or the abduction of said trapeziometacarpal joint, or in response to the metacarpocarpal joints of the ring and small finger, or in response to the pitch and yaw of the wrist; or abduction goniometers characterized by being mounted on edge in a U-shape in proximity to a trapeziometacarpal or metacarpophalangeal joint, or lying flat on the side of the index or small finger in proximity to the metacarpophalangeal joint; or mounted substantially straight on edge in line with and on the dorsal side of a trapeziometacarpal or metacarpophalangeal joint. 17. A sensing assembly comprising: a goniometer comprising an inert thin electrically non-conductive flexible support backing; a variable resistance strain sensing element affixed on said backing; and means for electrically connecting said element; means for guiding said goniometer in a predetermined path, said guiding means comprising a pocket encompassing said goniometer. 