An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a robotic mechanism, two computers each having a display screen and keyboard, the apparatus having a plurality of exchangeable parts provided with a signalling device to transmit information when an exchangeable part is malfunctioning, the signalling device also identifying the malfunctioning part on one of the display screens of a computer. An emergency electrical battery is provided at an individual compartment for milking an animal for providing electrical power in the event of failure of the main power, and a computer is provided for closing down non-vital functions in the event of such power failure or of malfunctioning of the part or parts concerned. The teat cups of the set of teat cups which are automatically installed and removed from the last animal being milked can also be individually installed manually on the animal's teats, and a second set of teat cups for similar manual installation and removal is also provided, including conduits for pulsating the teat cups of the second set connected to a vacuum source, and for conveying milk received in such teat cups to a receptacle.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a milking compartment, a milking robot operable to milk an animal in said milking compartment, said milking robot including milking means which comprises a set of teat cups that are automatically connected to and disconnected from said animal's teats by said milking robot, an emergency power source on said compartment, said emergency power source serving to provide the apparatus with electrical power in the event that electricity from a power main is not available, switching means for automatically switching over to said emergency source from said power main to substitute electricity from said emergency power source in lieu of electricity from said power main for operating said milking robot in the event of said power main's failure, said emergency power source having a capacity to provide electrical energy to operate said milking robot continuously to milk animals received in said milking compartment for a period of at least about twenty-four hours. 2. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, in combination with and installed in a milking parlor, the apparatus comprising: teat cups and a robotic mechanism for automatically connecting and disconnecting said teat cups to and from the teats of the animal being milked, said robotic mechanism being powered by electricity from a power main; said milking parlor including at least one emergency device, said emergency device comprising an electrical energy source of electricity which automatically substitutes electricity therefrom for electricity from said power main in the event of failure of the latter, said emergency device having a capacity to operate said robotic mechanism for automatically milking animals received in said milking parlor for at least about twenty-four hours. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said electrical energy source comprises at least one electrical battery. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, comprising a computer for controlling the apparatus including controlling said robotic mechanism, the apparatus comprising a plurality of components including components which are not vital to the milking operations, said computer including means for selectively rendering said components which are not vital to the milking operation inoperative. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said emergency device comprising at least one battery for providing an electrical power supply to the apparatus in the event that electricity from the power main fails, said energy device upon the occurrence of said failure automatically causing said battery to provide the electrical power to operate vital components of the apparatus and also causing components of the apparatus which are not vital to the milking operations to become inoperative. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2 wherein said electrical energy source comprises an electrical current generating set. 7. An apparatus for automatically milking cows comprising a plurality of components including components which are vital to the milking operations and components which are not vital to the milking operations, an emergency energy source for operating said components, a computer controlling the operations of said components, said computer including switching means for switching the energy sources for said components from a non-emergency energy source to said emergency energy source, said computer including means selectively rendering said components not vital to the milking operation inoperative when it switches the power source for operating said components from said non-emergency energy source to said emergency energy source. 8. Apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein said components which are vital to the milking operations include a milking robot. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein said components which are not vital to the milking operations comprise milk production inspection means. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein said components which are not vital to the milking operations comprise teat disinfection apparatus. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein said components which are not vital to the milking operations comprise a mastitis detector. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7, wherein said components which are vital to the milking operations comprise a milking robot and said components which are not vital to the milking operations comprise milk production inspection means, milk disinfecting apparatus and a mastitis detector. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein said emergency energy source comprises a battery and said non-emergency energy source comprises an electrical main, the apparatus further comprising a battery charging station by means of which said battery is maintained in a charged condition by said non-emergency energy source. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein said emergency energy source comprises an electrical generator. 15. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, in combination with and installed in a milking parlor, the apparatus comprising: teat cups and a robotic mechanism for automatically connecting and disconnecting said teat cups to and from the teats of the animal being milked, said robotic mechanism being powered by electricity from a power main; a computer for controlling the apparatus, including controlling said robotic mechanism, said apparatus comprising a plurality of components including components which are not vital to the milking operations, said computer including means for selectively rendering said components which are not vital to the milking operation inoperative; said milking parlor including at least one emergency device, said emergency device comprising an electrical energy source of electricity which substitutes electricity therefrom for electricity from said power main in the event of failure of the latter. 16. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, in combination with and installed in a milking parlor, the apparatus comprising: teat cups and a robotic mechanism for automatically connecting and disconnecting said teat cups to and from the teats of the animal being milked, said robotic mechanism being powered by electricity from a power main; said milking parlor including at least one emergency device comprising at least one battery for providing an electrical power supply to the apparatus in the event that electricity from the power main fails, said emergency device upon the occurence of said failure automatically causing said battery to provide electrical power to operate vital components of the apparatus and also causing components of the apparatus which are not vital to the milking apparatus to become inoperative. 