Linear and other features on a workpiece are tracked by measuring the fields generated between electrodes arrayed in pairs. One electrode in each pair operates as a transmitter and the other as a receiver, and both electrodes in a pair are arrayed on a carrier. By combining and subtracting fields between electrodes in one pair and between a transmitting electrode in one pair and a receiving electrode in another pair, information describing the location and orientation of the sensor relative to the workpiece in up to six degrees of freedom may be obtained. Typical applications will measure capacitance, but other impedance components may be measured as well. The sensor is designed to track a linear feature axis or a protrusion or pocket in a workpiece. Seams and ridges can be tracked by this non-contact sensor. The sensor output is useful for robotic applications.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for tracking a feature on a workpiece comprising: at least two pairs of electrodes disposed on a planar mount oriented parallel to the axis of the feature and above the workpiece with one electrode in each pair operating as a transmitter of an electric field and the other electrode in each pair operating as a receiver of the field; means to drive each of the transmitting electrodes at a separate frequency; means to combine the signals from the receiver electrodes to provide information indicative of the position of the mount relative to the feature; and means to drive the mount in response to the position information. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: means to drive each of the transmitting electrodes at a separate frequency; inverting charge amplifier means to initially buffer the signal output from each receiver electrode; and means for cancelling signals due to undesired impedances at the frequency of a transmitting electrode comprising variable amplifier means which separately amplify each of the outputs of the means to drive each transmitting electrode to a level sufficient to null the output of the inverting charge amplifier means when the planar mount is in a predefined position relative to the workpiece. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further including means to adjust for phase shifts in the fields sensed by each of the receiving electrodes comprising: synchronous detector means connected to the amplified output and the inverted amplified output of the undesired impedance signal cancellation means and to the output of a clock generating circuit wherein the clock generating circuit contains means to provide an adjustable delay to the signal received from the means to drive the transmitting electrode such that the delay may be adjusted to compensate for phase shifts between the signal transmitted by the transmitting electrode and the receiving electrode in the output of the synchronous detector means. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the clock generating circuit is operated in quadrature. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 further including means to adjust for undesired phase shifts in the fields sensed by each of the receiving electrodes comprising: synchronous detector means connected to the amplified output and the inverted amplified output of the receiving electrode and to the output of a clock generating circuit wherein the clock generating circuit contains means to provide an adjustable delay to the signal received from the means to drive the transmitting electrode such that the delay may be adjusted to compensate for undesired phase shifts between the signal transmitted by the transmitting electrode and the receiving electrode in the output of the synchronous detector means. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein there are sufficient pairs of electrodes to measure up to six degrees of freedom in position relative to the coordinate system of the feature and the position of the planar mount. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to drive the mount comprises a robotic arm to which tool means are also attached. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the feature is a protusion. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the feature is an indentation or a hole. 10. Apparatus for tracking a feature on a workpiece comprising: at least two pairs of electrodes disposed on a planar mount oriented parallel to the axis of the feature and above the workpiece with one electrode in each pair operating as a transmitter and the other electrode in each pair operating as a receiver; means to drive each of the transmitting electrodes at a separate frequency; inverting charge amplifier means to initially buffer the signal output from each receiver electrode; means for cancelling signals due to undesired impedances at the frequency of a transmitting electrode comprising variable amplifier means which separately amplify each of the outputs of the means to drive each transmitting electrode to a level sufficient to null the output of the inverting charge amplifier means when the planar mount is in a predefined position relative to the workpiece; means to combine the signals from the receiver electrodes after undesired impedance signal cancellation to provide information indicative of the location of the mount relative to the feature; and means to drive the mount in response to the location information. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further including means to adjust for phase shifts in the fields sensed by each of the receiving electrodes comprising: synchronous detector means connected to the amplified output and the inverted amplified output of the undesired impedance signal cancellation cancellation means and to the output of a clock generating circuit wherein the clock generating circuit provides an adjustable delay to the signal received from the means to drive the transmitting electrode such that the delay may be adjusted to compensate for phase shifts between the signal transmitted by the transmitting electrode and the receiving electrode in the output of the synchronous detector means. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the clock generating circuit is operated in quadrature. 13. Apparatus for tracking a feature on a workpiece comprising: mount means having a relatively thin planar region oriented generally perpendicular to the surface (z-axis) of the workpiece and parallel to the longitudinal axis of the feature (x-axis); first, second, third, and fourth electrode means wherein the first and second electrode means are located on one side of the lowermost extension of the planar region and third and fourth electrode means are located on the opposite side of the planar region and directly behind the first and second electrode means respectively; means to create an oscillating electric potential at one of the electrode means at each side of the planar region and means to sense the oscillating electric potential at the other of the electrode means at each side; means to create a first combined signal indicative of deviations of the mount means in a direction perpendicular (z-axis) to the surface of the workpiece comprising means to determine the sum of the electric field between the transmitting electrode means on the one side and the sensing electrode means on the opposite side and the electric field between the transmitting electrode means on the opposite side and the sensing electrode means on the one side; and means to drive the mount means such that a predetermined value for the first combined signal is maintained. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further including means to create a second combined signal indicative of deviations of the mount means in a direction perpendicular (y-axis) to the axis of the feature (x-axis) comprising means to determine the difference between the field between the first and second electrode means and the field between the third and fourth electrode means; and means to drive the mount means in the y-axis direction to produce a minimum in the second combined signal. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 further including means to create a third combined signal indicative of angular displacement about the y-axis comprising means to determine the difference between the field between the transmitting electrode means on the one side and the sensing electrode means on the opposite side and the field between the transmitting electrode means on the opposite side and the sensing electrode means on the one side; and means to drive the mount means to maintain a predetermined angular orientation within the plane defined by the x-axis and the z-axis relative to the local workpiece surface. 16. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein each transmitting electrode means transmits at a different frequency. 17. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the means to drive the mount comprises a robotic arm to which tool means are also attached. 18. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the feature is a seam. 19. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the feature is a linear protrusion. 