Several methods and subsystems are disclosed for aligning a workpiece as it is being loaded into a die space of a bending apparatus, and for performing sensor-based control of a robot as it moves a workpiece from one location to another within a bending apparatus environment. A backgaging mechanism is provided with finger gaging mechanisms having force sensors for sensing forces in directions perpendicular to and parallel to a die. In addition, a robot gripper sensor is provided for sensing either or both of shear forces and normal forces created by movement of a workpiece being held by the gripper. Several sensor-based control modules are disclosed, including a bend-following control module, a speed control module, a module for actively damping vibrations in a workpiece, a module for controlling active compliance/contact between a workpiece and an obstacle, a module for performing a guarded move to intentionally bring a workpiece into contact with an obstacle, and a module for detecting unintentional impacts between a workpiece and an obstacle. Several droop sensing methods and systems are also disclosed, including methods for performing droop sensing and compensation with the use of a vision-based droop sensor, a compound break-beam droop sensor, and a single break-beam droop sensor. In addition, an angle sensor is disclosed, along with a springback control method utilizing the disclosed angle sensor.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus for aligning a malleable sheet workpiece with respect to a die of a bending apparatus, before performing a bend operation on the workpiece, said apparatus comprising: a finger gaging mechanism for gaging the position of said workpiece with respect to said die, said finger gaging mechanism comprising a finger tip member mounted on a support base for rotational movement, and means for detecting contact forces on said finger tip member based on movement of said finger tip member; means for moving said workpiece toward said finger tip member until a contact force is detected between an edge of said workpiece and said finger tip member; and means for adjusting an orientation of said workpiece with respect to said die based on said detected contact force. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said adjusting means adjusts the orientation of said workpiece by moving said workpiece while maintaining a contact force with said finger tip member. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said adjusting means adjusts the orientation of said workpiece by rotating said workpiece about said finger tip member. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said finger gaging mechanism further comprises an L-shaped arm that is pivotally mounted to said support base about a pivot point, said finger tip member being supported on said L-shaped arm for rotational movement with respect to said support base. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said detecting means comprises a pair of force sensitive resistors, one of said force sensitive resistors being maintained at a constant force between a first push rod and a flat vertical surface of said L-shaped arm, and another of said force sensitive resistors being maintained at a constant force between a second push rod and a flat vertical surface of a bracing member of said support base, said force sensitive resistors detecting a contact force based on movement of said finger tip member. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising a spring pre-load adjustment mechanism for maintaining said force sensitive resistors at said constant force by an acting force of said spring pre-load adjustment mechanism that acts on said first push road and said second push rod. 7. A finger gaging apparatus for use in an apparatus for aligning a malleable sheet workpiece with respect to a die of a bending apparatus when loading said workpiece into a die space, before performing a bend operation on the said workpiece, said apparatus comprising: a gaging finger having an elongated member with a longitudinal axis parallel to or orthogonal to said die, said gaging finger comprising: a contact portion that moves with said elongated member; and means for measuring forces of contact between said workpiece and said contact portion, said forces of contact comprising both a force parallel to said die and a force orthogonal to said die. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said gaging finger is mounted on a support base for rotational movement, said measuring means measuring forces of contact based on movement of said contact portion and said elongated member of said gaging finger. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising an L-shaped arm that is pivotally mounted to said support base about a pivot point, said elongated member of said gaging finger being supported on said L-shaped arm for rotational movement with respect to said support base. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said measuring means comprises a pair of force sensitive resistors, one of said force sensitive resistors being maintained at a constant force between a first push rod and a flat vertical surface of said L-shaped arm, and another of said force sensitive resistors being maintained at a constant force between a second push rod and a flat vertical surface of a bracing member of said support base, said force sensitive resistors detecting said contact forces based on movement of said elongated member. 11. An apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising a spring pre-load adjustment mechanism for maintaining said force sensitive resistors at said constant force by an acting force of said spring pre-load adjustment mechanism that acts on said first push road and said second push rod. 12. A bending apparatus for performing a bend operation on a malleable sheet workpiece, said bending apparatus comprising: a die and a tool punch, said die and tool punch forming a die space; loading means for loading said workpiece into said die space, said loading means comprising substantially rigid gaging fingers, a robot having a gripper, and means for controlling said robot to bring said workpiece into contact with said substantially rigid fingers, said gripper holding said workpiece while said robot brings said workpiece into contact with said rigid gaging fingers, said gripper comprising compliant pads and sensing means for sensing when said workpiece contacts said substantially rigid gaging fingers, said sensing means comprising a light-emitting device and a position-sensitive device for detecting a shear force acting on said gripper. 13. A bending apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising means for adjusting an orientation of said workpiece with respect to said die, said adjusting means adjusting the orientation of said workpiece by moving said workpiece while maintaining contact with at least one of said rigid gaging finger. 14. A bending apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said sensing means detects said shear force acting on said gripper based on the detected position of a light beam from said light emitting device on said position-sensitive device. 15. A bending apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said sensing means further comprises a layered sensor pad including FSR conductive traces and a FSR resistive sheet, said sensing means detecting normal forces acting on said gripper based on a resistance on said FSR resistive sheet. 16. A bending apparatus for performing a bend operation on a malleable sheet workpiece, said bending apparatus comprising: a die and a tool punch, said die and tool punch forming a die space; a gaging mechanism comprising at least one gaging finger, each gaging finger gaging a position of said workpiece along a first direction orthogonal to said die and along a second direction parallel to said die; a robot having a gripper for holding said workpiece; and means for controlling said robot to bring said workpiece into contact with said at least one gaging finger; said robot gripper comprising a gripper force sensor for sensing an amount of force between said workpiece and said robot gripper, and said gaging finger comprising a finger force sensor for sensing an amount of force between said at least one gaging finger and said workpiece contacting said at least one gaging finger. 17. The bending apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said gripper force sensor comprises means for sensing a shear force acting on an inner surface of said robot gripper due to movement or said workpiece within said gripper, said finger force sensor comprising means for sensing both a force in a direction perpendicular to said die and a force in a direction parallel to said die. 18. A bending apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising means for adjusting an orientation of said workpiece with respect to said die, said adjusting means adjusting the orientation of said workpiece by moving said workpiece while maintaining a contact force with said gaging finger. 19. A bending apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said adjusting means further adjusts the orientation of said workpiece by rotating said workpiece about said gaging finger. 20. A bending apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said gaging finger is mounted on a support base for rotational movement, said finger force sensor sensing said forces based on movement of said gaging finger. 21. A bending apparatus according to claim 20, further comprises an L-shaped arm that is pivotally mounted to said support base about a pivot point, said gaging finger being supported on said L-shaped arm for rotational movement with respect to said support base. 22. A bending apparatus according to claim 21, wherein said finger force sensor comprises a pair of force sensitive resistors, one of said force sensitive resistors being maintained at a constant force between a first push rod and a flat vertical surface of said L-shaped arm, and another of said force sensitive resistors being maintained at a constant force between a second push rod and a flat vertical surface of a bracing member of said support base, said force sensitive resistors detecting said force between said gaging finger and said workpiece based on movement of said gaging finger. 23. A bending apparatus according to claim 22, further comprising a spring pre-load adjustment mechanism for maintaining said force sensitive resistors at said constant force by an acting force of said spring pre-load adjustment mechanism that acts on said first push road and said second push rod. 24. A method for aligning a malleable sheet workpiece with respect to a die of a bending apparatus, said bending apparatus comprising a finger gaging mechanism, said finger gaging mechanism including a finger tip member mounted on a support base for rotational movement about a pivot point, said method comprising: detecting contact forces on said finger tip member based on movement of said finger tip member with respect to said pivot point; moving said workpiece toward said finger tip member until said contact force is detected between an edge of said workpiece and said finger tip member; and adjusting based on said detected contact force, an orientation of said workpiece with respect to said die by rotating said workpiece about said finger tip. 25. A method according to claim 24, further comprising adjusting the orientation of said workpiece by moving said workpiece while maintaining a contact force with said finger tip member. 26. A method for aligning a malleable sheet workpiece with respect to a die of a bending apparatus when loading said workpiece into a die space, said bending apparatus comprising a gaging finger having an elongated member with a longitudinal axis parallel to or orthogonal to said die, said gaging finger comprising a contact portion that moves with said elongated member, said method comprising: measuring forces of contact between said workpiece and said contact portion based on movement of said contact portion, said forces of contact comprising both a force parallel to said die and a force orthogonal to said die; moving said workpiece toward said contact portion until said contact forces are measured and detected; and adjusting based on said detected ocntact force, an orientation of said workpiece with respect to said die by rotating said workpiece about said contact portion. 27. A method according to claim 26, further comprising adjusting the orientation of said workpiece by moving said workpiece while maintaining a contact force with said contact portion. 28. A bending apparatus for performing a bend operation on a malleable sheet workpiece, said bending apparatus comprising: a die and a tool punch, said die and tool punch forming a die space; a loading system that loads said workpiece into said die space, said loading system comprising substantially rigid gaging fingers, a robot having a gripper, and a control system that controls said robot to bring said workpiece into contact with said substantially rigid fingers, said gripper holding said workpiece while said robot brings said workpiece into contact with said rigid gaging fingers, said gripper comprising compliant pads and a sensing system that senses when said workpiece contacts said substantially rigid gaging fingers, said sensing system comprising a light-emitting device and a position-sensitive device for detecting a shear force acting on said gripper. 29. A bending apparatus for performing a bend operation on a malleable sheet workpiece, said bending apparatus comprising: a die and a tool punch, said die and tool punch forming a die space; a gaging mechanism comprising at least one gaging finger each gaging finger gaging a position of said workpiece along a first direction orthogonal to said die and along a second direction parallel to said die; a robot having a gripper for holding said workpiece; and a control mechanism that controls said robot to bring said workpiece into contact with said at least one gaging finger; said robot gripper comprising a gripper force sensor for sensing an amount of force between said workpiece and said robot gripper, and said gaging finger comprising a finger force sensor for sensing an amount of force between said at least one gaging finger and said workpiece contacting said at least one gaging finger. 30. The bending apparatus according to claim 29, wherein said gripper force sensor comprises a gripper force sensing system that senses a shear force acting on an inner surface of said robot gripper due to movement of said workpiece within said gripper, said finger force sensor comprising a finger force sensing system that senses both a force in a direction perpendicular to said die and a force in a direction parallel to said die. 