A method of browsing geometrical databases through touch or haptic feedback is disclosed which presents a tactile virtual reality to a user, facilitating the simultaneous browsing, or viewing, touching, attaching to, or manipulation of object descriptions contained within files both visually and haptically. The files may be local to a computer system or located across a network on one or more computer systems. In a preferred embodiment, the invention preferably renders haptic features using a layered architecture to support multiple axes per device, multiple devices per servo layer, multiple servo layers per communications layer, and multiple applications accessing common or different force-feedback devices.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of haptic browsing, comprising the steps of: providing a computer interfaced to a display device and a force-feedback controller; accessing a file at the computer containing geometric object descriptions including attributes relating to touch; and viewing an object on the display device while simultaneously haptically interacting with the object using the force-feedback controller. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the file is stored at the location of the computer. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the file is stored remotely, and wherein the step of accessing occurs over a network. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometric object descriptions are in a standard graphics format. 5. The method of claim 1, further including the step of providing a layered architecture containing at least one servo layer interfaced to the force-feedback controller and at least one communications layer interfaced to one or more application layers. 6. The method of claim 5, further including one or more applications programmer interface layers (APIS) in communication with one or more force-feedback controllers. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the force-feedback controllers are interfaced to one or more servo layers through multiple device control interface (DCI) levels. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the layered architecture includes multiple servo and communications layers in support of one or more force-feedback controllers. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the servo layers includes a plurality of control modules capable of exchanging parameters through a pipe construct. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein the parameters support device independence. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the servo layers includes a plurality of control modules configured to produce superimposed force outputs. 12. The method of claim 5, wherein the interface to the force-feedback controller occurs through a serial port. 13. The method of claim 5, wherein the interface to he force-feedback controller occurs through a network sock. 14. The method of claim 5, wherein the interface to the force-feedback controller occurs through a shared memory. 15. The method of claim 5, further including a force-feedback information transfer protocol for messaging from one of more applications to one or more force feedback controllers through one or more intervening communications layers. 16. The method of claim 5, further including the step of executing one or more of the layers in parallel. 17. The method of claim 5, further including the step of providing a configuration file for a particular force-feedback controller providing coordinate and measurement transformations from the application layer through to the servo layer associated with that controller. 18. The method of claim 5, wherein the layered architecture is written in a machine-independent program description language. 19. The method of claim 5, further including the step of providing a computer and-operating system independent library associated with force-feedback control. 20. The method of claim 5, further including the step of providing a communications systems dependent library in support of communications systems independence. 