An interactive system for teaching, entertaining, and habituating a child utilizes an interactive entity such as a doll, the doll having a microphone, a speaker, and control circuitry adapted for driving the speaker and microphone and a bidirectional communication link to a personal computer (PC). Scripted data stored at the computer directs doll activity and verbal articulation, and utilizes response from the child through the doll to the PC in directing output to the doll. In alternative embodiments the interactive doll has also servo-mechanisms for providing doll motion, such as eye and mouth and limb movement, which may be coordinated with verbalization in different scripts by commands retrieved at the computer and sent to the doll. In a preferred embodiment environments and applications are provided on CD-ROM disks which may also provide the operating application for the interactive doll system. Systems may be adapted for a broad range of functionality, such as acquaintance of a child with foreign languages, story telling, indirect interaction between an adult and a child through the medium of the doll, and much more.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive system comprising: a personal computer (PC) having a CPU, a memory, a first communication port adapted for peripheral communication coupled to the CPU, and control routines executable by the CPU; a personalized entity separate from the PC, having therein control circuitry coupled to a microphone, to a speaker and to a second communication port adapted for peripheral communication; and a communication link coupling the first and the second communication ports; wherein, through execution of the control routines by the CPU, communication is executed between the PC and the personalized entity as a peripheral device, wherein stored audio data is retrieved by the CPU, passed to the personalized entity via the communication link converted to analog audio at the speaker in the personalized entity, and wherein voice input via the microphone in the personalized entity is converted to audio data by the control circuitry, transferred to the computer via the communication link, and is utilized at the computer in conjunction with the control routines to guide selection of stored audio data to be retrieved and sent to the personalized entity. 2. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein the personalized entity is a doll. 3. An interactive system as in claim 1 wherein the communication link coupling the first and the second communication ports is a two-way wireless communication link. 4. An interactive system as in claim 1 comprising multiple personalized entities coupled to a single computer and operated simultaneously. 5. An interactive system as in claim 2 further comprising servo-mechanisms adapted for manipulating parts of the doll, wherein the control circuitry comprises an input/output (I/O) interface connected to and manageable by the control circuitry to switch power from an on-board power supply to activate individual ones of the servo-mechanisms to provide doll motion according to movement data sent to the doll via the communication link. 6. An interactive system as in claim 5 further comprising sensors adapted for sensing movement and environmental characteristics in the environment of the doll and wherein input from the sensors is communicated via the communication link to the computer and utilized in conjunction with the control routines to guide selection of motion commands to be sent to the doll to initiate motions by individual ones of the servo-mechanisms. 7. An interactive doll, comprising: a microcontroller coupled to digital memory; a sound circuitry coupled to the microcontroller and connected to a microphone and a speaker, the sound circuit adapted for converting audio data to analog audio output at the speaker and for converting analog audio input at the microphone to audio data; and a (bidirectional communication interface) peripheral port coupled to the microcontroller, for connection to a host computer; wherein the interactive doll operates as a peripheral device through the peripheral port, and wherein analog audio input at the microphone is converted into audio data by the sound circuitry and transmitted at the peripheral port, and wherein audio data received at the peripheral port is converted by the sound circuitry and provided as analog audio output at the speaker. 8. An interactive doll as in claim 7 further comprising an I/O interface, coupled to the microcontroller and to servo-mechanisms adapted to move portions of the doll, and an on-board power supply, and wherein movement commands received at the peripheral port are utilized to activate individual ones of the servo-mechanisms to provide movement of associated portions of the doll. 9. An interactive doll as in claim 8 further comprising sensors adapted for sensing doll movement and characteristics of doll environment, and wherein signals from the sensors are converted to data signals at the I/O interface and transferred to the peripheral port for transmission. 10. An interactive doll as in claim 7 where in the peripheral port is connected to a cordless communication interface for communication as a peripheral device with the host computer. 11. An interactive doll as in claim 10 wherein the cordless communication interface is one of an infra-red interface, a radio frequency broadcast interface, a fiber-optic interface, and an inductively-coupled interface. 12. An interactive doll as in claim 7 wherein the microcontroller, the sound circuitry, and the communication interface are all implemented on an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC). 13. An interactive personal article comprising: a microcontroller coupled to digital memory; sound circuitry coupled to the microcontroller and connected to a microphone and a speaker, the sound circuitry adapted for converting audio data to analog audio output at the speaker and for converting analog audio input at the microphone to audio data; and a peripheral port coupled to the microcontroller, for connection to a host computer; wherein the interactive personal article operates as a peripheral device through the peripheral port, and wherein analog audio input at the microphone is converted into audio data by the sound circuitry and transmitted at the peripheral port, and wherein audio data received at the peripheral port is converted by the sound circuitry and provided as analog audio output at the speaker. 14. An interactive personal article as in claim 13 further comprising an I/O interface coupled to the microcontroller and to servo-mechanisms adapted to move portions of the interactive personal article, and an on-board power supply, and wherein movement commands received at the peripheral port are utilized to activate individual ones of the servo-mechanisms to provide movement of the associated portions of the interactive personal article. 15. An interactive personal article as in claim 13 wherein the external aspect is that of one of a human doll or a stuffed animal. 16. An interactive personal article as in claim 15 further comprising sensors adapted for sensing movement of portions of the doll or stuffed animal and characteristics of local environment, and wherein signals from the sensors are converted to data signals at the I/O interface and transferred to the peripheral port for transmission. 17. An interactive personal article as in claim 13 wherein the peripheral port is connected to a cordless communication interface for communication as a peripheral device with the host computer. 18. An interactive personal article as in claim 17 wherein the cordless communication interface is one of an infra-red interface, a radio frequency broadcast interface, a fiber-optic interface, and an inductively-coupled interface. 19. An interactive personal article as in claim 13 wherein the microcontroller, the sound circuitry, and the peripheral port are all implemented on an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC). 20. A method for teaching, comprising steps of: (a) retrieving audio selections from digital memory associated with a computer as primary digital audio data; (b) sending the audio data to a first peripheral port in the environment of the computer and thence over a communication link to an electronic doll adapted as a peripheral device to the computer, the electronic doll in proximity to a child; (c) receiving the audio data at a second peripheral port in the electronic doll and converting the audio data to analog audio output at a speaker incorporated in the electronic doll; (d) receiving speech from the child at a microphone associated with the electronic doll; (e) converting the child's speech to return audio data; (f) transmitting the return audio data via the second peripheral port over the communication link from the doll to the computer; and (g) using the return audio data in the computer as criteria for selecting further audio data for transmission to the doll. 21. The method of claim 20 comprising additional steps for providing movement for the doll via servo-mechanisms in the doll, the servo-mechanisms directed by commands retrieved from the computer memory and transferred to the electronic doll over the communication link, the movements predicated to enhance the teaching experience for the child. 