The present invention provides a method for cleaning a processing chamber. According to a specific embodiment, the method includes steps of depositing a dielectric film on a wafer on a ceramic heater in the processing chamber in a first time period, with the ceramic heater heated to a first temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. during the deposition step; and introducing reactive species into the processing chamber from a clean gas that is input to a remote microwave plasma system during a second time period, with the ceramic heater heated to a second temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. during the introducing step. The method also includes cleaning surfaces in the processing chamber, with cleaning performed by the reactive species. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber, said processing chamber including interior walls and a ceramic liner, said ceramic liner lining at least a portion of said interior walls; a vacuum system configured to maintain a selected pressure between about 10-760 torr within said processing chamber; a gas delivery system configured to deliver selected reactive gases to said processing chamber, said gas delivery system including a deposition supply system and a dual input box having a first input and a second input, said gas delivery system configured to introduce said selected reactive gases into said processing chamber via a selected input of said dual input box at a selected time, and said deposition supply system configured to deliver first reactive gases from said first input to said processing chamber when said first input is selected and to deliver a reactive species from said second input to said processing chamber when said second input is selected; a remote microwave plasma system configured to produce and deliver said reactive species from said second input to said processing chamber, said reactive species produced from a plasma created from cleaning gases decomposed by microwaves; a heating system, said heating system including a heater having a ceramic exterior, said heater for holding a substrate and capable of heating up to at least about 500.degree. C.; a controller configured to control said gas delivery system, said remote microwave plasma system, said heating system, and said vacuum system; and a memory, coupled to said controller, comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of said substrate processing system, wherein said computer-readable program includes: a first set of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to introduce said cleaning gases to said remote microwave plasma system during a first time period to deliver said reactive species into said processing chamber to clean the processing chamber. 2. The substrate processing system of claim 1 wherein said first set of computer instructions includes: a first subset of computer instructions for controlling said vacuum system to maintain a pressure of between about 10-760 torr within said processing chamber; and a second subset of computer instructions for controlling said heating system to heat said heater to a selected temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. during said first time period; a third subset of computer instructions for controlling said remote microwave plasma system to apply microwaves to said cleaning gases to provide said reactive species during said first time period; and a fourth subset of computer instructions for controlling said vacuum system to pump residues out of said processing chamber after cleaning said processing chamber. 3. The substrate processing system of claim 2 wherein said selected temperature is about 550.degree. C. 4. The substrate processing system of claim 2 wherein said selected temperature is about 600.degree. C. 5. The substrate processing system of claim 2 wherein said selected temperature is about 650.degree. C. 6. The substrate processing system of claim 2 wherein said reactive species is comprised of fluorine. 7. The substrate processing system of claim 6 wherein said cleaning gases are selected from a group consisting of NF.sub.3 and N.sub.2, NF.sub.3 and argon, NF.sub.3 and O.sub.2, NF.sub.3 and atomic oxygen (O), and a dilute F.sub.2. 8. The substrate processing system of claim 6 wherein said cleaning gases are selected from a group consisting of CF.sub.4, C.sub.2 F.sub.6, C.sub.3 F.sub.8, SF.sub.6. 9. The substrate processing system of claim 2 wherein said reactive species is comprised of chlorine and said cleaning gases include Cl.sub.2. 10. The substrate processing system of claim 1 wherein said gas deliver system further includes a gate valve at the second input, said gate valve selectively opened or closed to allow said reactive species into said second input. 11. The substrate processing system of claim 10 wherein said controller is also configured to control said gate valve, and wherein said computer-readable program further comprises a sixth subset of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to selectively open or close said gate valve. 12. A method for cleaning a processing chamber, said method comprising: depositing a dielectric film on a wafer on a ceramic heater in said processing chamber in a first time period, said ceramic heater heated to a first temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. during said deposition step; introducing reactive species into said processing chamber from a clean gas that is input to a remote microwave plasma system during a second time period, said ceramic heater heated to a second temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. during said introducing step; and cleaning surfaces in said processing chamber, said cleaning performed by said reactive species. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said remote microwave plasma system includes a magnetron, a tuned waveguide system, and an applicator tube; and wherein said clean gas is received in said applicator tube where microwaves from said magnetron energize said clean gas to provide said reactive species to said processing chamber. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said first temperature is substantially the same as said second temperature. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said first temperature is between about 550.degree.-600.degree. C. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said reactive species comprises chlorine and said clean gas comprises Cl.sub.2. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein said first temperature is between about 550.degree.-600.degree. C. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein said reactive species comprises fluorine. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said clean gas comprises NF.sub.3. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein said cleaning gas is selected from a group consisting of NF.sub.3 and N.sub.2, NF.sub.3 and argon, NF.sub.3 and O.sub.2, NF.sub.3 and atomic oxygen (O), and a dilute F.sub.2. 