A workpiece support for supporting a semiconductor workpiece in a semiconductor processing machine is disclosed. The workpiece support has an operator base which essentially forms a yoke having two yoke arms. An operator arm having two fork arms is pivotally mounted between the two yoke arms of the operator base such that the fork arms are protruding. A processing head having a workpiece holder is rotatably mounted between the two protruding fork arms. The processing head may rotate about the fork arms to present the workpiece holder in a position to receive a workpiece or to deploy the workpiece in the semiconductor manufacturing process. The operator arm which pivots about the operator base yoke arms is used to lower the processing head and the workpiece into the process. Both the processing head and the operator arm are supported along horizontal axes having at least two points of support distally separated for stability. The processing head is further provided with novel fingers for holding the workpiece in an electroplating process. A method of presenting a workpiece to a semiconductor manufacturing process in accordance with the description provided for the apparatus is also described.
Claims The invention is claimed as indicated below: 1. A workpiece support for supporting a semiconductor workpiece in a semiconductor processing machine, comprising: an operator base forming a yoke, said yoke having a back portion and at least two yoke arms extending therefrom to form said yoke; a processing head comprising a workpiece holder for holding a workpiece, said workpiece holder rotatably mounted to said processing head; an operator arm, said operator arm forming a fork having at least two fork arms, said processing head being pivotally mounted between said yoke arms; and wherein said processing head is pivotally mounted between said fork arms. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processing head pivot drive connected to said processing head for pivotally moving said processing head between said fork arms. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said processing head pivot drive is disposed within said operator arm. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an operator arm drive connected to said operator arm for pivotally moving said operator arm between said yoke arms. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said operator arm drive is disposed within said operator arm. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a workpiece spin drive, said workpiece spin drive connected to said workpiece holder for rotating said workpiece holder relative to said processing head. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said workpiece spin drive is disposed with said processing head. 8. In the apparatus of claim 1 wherein said operator arm pivots between said yoke arms about an operator pivot axis, the apparatus further comprising an operator encoder configured and arranged with respect to said operator arm and said operator base for determining the position of said operator arm about said head support axis. 9. In the apparatus of claim 1 wherein said processing head pivots between said fork arms about a processing head pivot axis, the apparatus further comprising a processing head encoder configured and arranged with respect to said processing head and said operator arm for determining the position of said processing head about said processing head pivot axis. 10. In the apparatus of claim 1 wherein said workpiece holder rotates about a workpiece holder spin axis, the apparatus further comprising a workpiece holder encoder configured and arranged with respect to said workpiece holder and said processing head for determining the position of said workpiece holder about said workpiece holder spin axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising an optical tachometer optically configured and arranged to determine rotational speed of said workpiece holder about said workpiece holder spin axis. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said workpiece holder rotates about a workpiece holder spin axis, and wherein: said workpiece holder further comprises at least two fingers, said fingers being circumferentially disposed about said workpiece holder spin axis; and said fingers are movable with respect to said workpiece holder to engage and disengage a workpiece. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein: said fingers are disposed within said workpiece holder so as to pivot from a first open position to a second closed position and thereby grasp a workpiece; each of said fingers further comprise cantilevered finger extensions extending from said fingers; said workpiece holder further comprises a finger actuator, said finger actuator comprising an actuator plate, said actuator plate extensibly mounted with respect to said workpiece holder so as when extended to contact and move said finger thereby causing said fingers to pivot. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said actuator plate is connected to a plurality of pneumatic actuators, said pneumatic actuators being flexibly coupled to said actuator plate so as to allow said actuator plate to tilt with respect to said pneumatic actuators. 15. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said processing head is pivotally mounted to said operator arm at at least one of said fork arms by a first processing head shaft, said first processing head shaft being fixed with respect to said processing head and rotatably mounted with respect to said fork arm. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a processing head drive wheel fixedly mounted on said processing head shaft, a processing head drive output shaft for outputting rotational motion from said processing head drive, and wherein said processing head drive output shaft is connected to said processing head drive wheel by a flexible power transmission coupling. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said flexible power transmission coupling is a continuous belt. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a rotate switch, said rotate switch comprising a beginning rotate switch component coupled to said first processing head shaft, an endpoint rotate switch component coupled to said first processing head shaft, and a primary rotate switch component fixed with respect to said operator arm, said beginning rotate switch component and said endpoint rotate switch component configured and arranged so as to pass in proximity to said primary rotate switch component as said processing head pivots about said first processing head shaft, and further configured such that at least one of said rotate switch components produces an electrical signal event in response to at least one of said rotate switch components coupled to said first processing head shaft passing in proximity to said primary rotate switch component. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said electrical signal event is used to deactivate said processing head pivot drive. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein at least one of said rotate switch components is coupled to said processing head shaft is an optical switch, and further wherein said primary rotate switch component is a flag for interrupting said optical switch to produce said electrical signal event. 21. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said operator arm is pivotally mounted to said operator base at at least one of said yoke arms by a first operator arm shaft, said first operator arm shaft being fixed with respect to said operator arm and rotatably mounted with respect to said yoke arm. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising a lift switch, said lift switch comprising a beginning lift switch component coupled to said first operator arm shaft, an endpoint lift switch component coupled to said first operator arm shaft, and a primary lift switch component fixed with respect to said operator arm, said beginning lift switch component and said endpoint lift switch component configured and arranged so as to pass in proximity to said primary lift switch component as said operator arm pivots about said operator arm shaft, and further configured such that at least one of said lift switch components produces an electrical signal event in response to at least one of said lift switch components coupled to said operator arm shaft passing in proximity to said primary lift switch component. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said electrical signal event is used to deactivate said operator arm pivot drive. 24. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein at least one of said lift switch components coupled to said operator arm shaft is an optical switch, and further wherein said primary lift switch component is a flag for interrupting said optical switch to produce said electrical signal event. 25. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a operator arm pivot drive connected to said operator arm for pivotally moving said operator arm between said yoke arms, and a lift circuit, wherein: said operator arm pivot drive comprises a first electro-mechanical servo; and said head support encoder is configured to produce a first electrical signal in response to pivotal motion of said operator arm, wherein said lift circuit is configured to process said first electrical signal to produce a modified lift signal, said first electro-mechanical servo motor being responsive to said modified lift signal. 26. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a processing head pivot drive connected to said processing head for pivotally moving said processing head between said fork arms, and a rotate circuit, wherein: said processing head pivot drive comprises a second electro-mechanical servo; and said processing head encoder is configured to produce a second electrical signal in response to pivotal motion of said processing head, wherein said rotate circuit is configured to process said second electrical signal to produce a modified rotate signal, said second electro-mechanical servo motor being responsive to said modified rotate signal. 27. A workpiece support for supporting a semiconductor workpiece in a semiconductor processing machine, comprising: an operator base forming a yoke, said yoke having a back portion and two yoke arms extending therefrom to form said yoke; a processing head comprising a workpiece holder for holding a workpiece, said workpiece holder rotatably mounted to said processing head; an operator arm, said operator arm forming a fork having two fork arms, said processing head being pivotally mounted between said yoke arms, and wherein said processing head is pivotally mounted between said fork arms; a processing head pivot drive connected to said processing head for pivotally moving said processing head between said fork arms; an operator arm drive connected to said operator arm for pivotally moving said processing head between said fork arms; and a workpiece holder spin drive for rotatably driving said workpiece holder relative to said processing head. 28. A workpiece support for supporting a semiconductor workpiece in a semiconductor processing machine, comprising: an operator base; an operator arm pivotally connected to said operator base about a first pivot axis; said operator arm being connected to said operator base by at least two distal operator arm pivot points, said operator arm pivot points lying along said first pivot axis; and a processing head pivotally connected to said operator arm about a second pivot axis. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said first horizontal pivot axis and said second pivot axis are horizontal and are parallel to one another. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 further comprising a workpiece holder, said workpiece holder rotatably connected to said processing head about a workpiece holder axis which is normal to said second horizontal axis. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said pivot axis is a horizontal axis. 32. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said processing head is connected to said operator arm by at least two distal processing head pivot points, said processing head pivot points lying along said second horizontal axis. 