A pair of connected joints is provided in a master-slave robotic system each operated by a plurality of force imparting means. Such force imparting means for the second joint supported on a member controlled by the first joint imparts force to a member controlled by the second joint at an acute angle. A third joint is used with a flexible drive tape partly internal thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to a base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a first joint connected to said base member and having a first joint extension extending along a first extension axis with a support end such that said first joint extension support end can be selectively moved with respect to said base anywhere over a selected range; a plurality of first joint force imparting means connected to said first joint so as to be capable of imparting force thereto to thereby cause selected movement of said first joint extension support end; a second joint connected to said first joint extension adjacent said support end thereof and having a second joint extension with a support end such that said second joint extension support end can be selectively moved relative to said first joint extension support end anywhere over a selected range; an actuator support connected to said first joint extension; and a plurality of second joint force imparting means connected to said actuator support and to said second joint so as to be capable of imparting force thereto to selectively cause angular rotation by said second joint extension about a first rotation axis in an angular range limited by interference with said first joint extension and about another rotation axis substantially perpendicular to a plane having a selected angular relationship with said first rotation axis to thereby cause selected movement of said second joint extension support end with said interference preventing said second joint extension from being rotated in a plane including said first rotation axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second joint comprises a ball means of a generally spherical shape about a center thereof and an equatorial plane capture means having a rotation location in which said second joint ball means is positioned such that said second joint equatorial plane capture means can rotate in multiple directions about said second joint ball means. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said second joint equatorial plane capture means is affixed to said first joint extension support end. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 in which an orientation pin extends through said second joint ball means including said center thereof, and through slots in said second joint equatorial plane capture means. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said actuator support is affixed to said first joint extension adjacent said support end thereof so as to have that portion of said actuator support so connected to said first joint extension making an acute angle therewith. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein axes of said linear actuator means are at an acute angle with respect to one another viewed perpendicularly from a plane intersecting each. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein a linear actuator extends between said rotary connection means and said first joint extension. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said plurality of second joint force imparting means includes a second joint first force imparting means and a second joint second force imparting means with each being a linear actuator means. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said first joint is rotatably connected to said base by a rotary connection means, and wherein said first joint extension is also connected to said rotary connection means by a rotary connection. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said first joint is rotatably connected to said base by a rotary connection means, and at least one of said first joint imparting means is connected between said rotary connection means and said base so as to be capable of rotating said first joint with respect to said base. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint is connected to said base so as to be rotatable with respect thereto. 12. A controlled relative motion system permitting a pair of members joined together to selectively move with respect to one another, said system comprising: a first joint member having a closed band portion about a circular opening therein at a rotation end thereof with said circular opening having a axis at an angle with respect to an axis of an extension portion thereof extending from said rotation end; a second joint member having a truncated cylindrical shell in an insertion end thereof with an opening through said truncated cylindrical shell having an axis at an angle with respect to an extension portion thereof extending from said insertion end; a bearing means disposed inside said closed band of said first joint member about said opening therein, and with said second joint member truncated cylindrical shell positioned inside said bearing means and said closed band of said first joint member; a flexible tape passing through an opening in said first joint member in said rotation end thereof and wrapped about an outer surface of said truncated cylindrical shell of said second joint member and fastened thereto; and an actuator connected between said first joint member extension and said tape. 13. Apparatus of claim 12 wherein said first joint member extension has an interior opening therein which joins with said opening within said closed band, and wherein said second joint member extension has an interior opening therein which joins with said interior of said truncated cylindrical shell. 14. Apparatus of claim 12 wherein said actuator is a linear actuator. 15. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member, joined to a base member, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a first joint connected to said base member and having a first joint extension with a support end such that said first joint extension support end can be selectively moved with respect to said base anywhere over a selected range; a plurality of first joint force imparting means connected to said first joint so as to be capable of imparting force thereto to thereby cause selected movement of said first joint extension support end; a second joint connected to said first joint extension adjacent said support end thereof and having a second joint extension with a support end such that said second joint extension support end can be selectively moved relative to said first joint extension support end anywhere over a selected range; an actuator support connected at a first location thereon to said first joint extension; and a plurality of second joint force imparting means connected to said second joint including a second joint first force imparting means connected to said actuator support at a second location thereon which is spaced substantially farther from said second joint than is said first location on said actuator support. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said second joint comprises a ball means of a generally spherical shape about a center thereof and an equatorial plane capture means having a rotation location in which said second joint ball means is positioned such that said second joint equatorial plane capture means can rotate in multiple directions about said second joint ball means. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said second joint equatorial plane capture means is affixed to said first joint extension support end. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said first joint is connected to said base so as to be rotatable with respect thereto. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein axes of said linear actuator means are at an acute angle with respect to one another viewed perpendicularly from a plane intersecting each. 20. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said plurality of second joint force imparting means includes said second joint first force imparting means and a second joint second force imparting means with each being a linear actuator means. 