An automatic tool mounting assembly for robotic equipment that includes a base mounting member and a tool carrier member. Radially extending locking posts are radially aligned with the seal between the base and tool carrier. Pneumatic connections within the base and tool carrier provide a seal at the interface surface of the two connector sections so as to avoid the use of sockets and O-ring seals. The pneumatic connection interfaces are also radially aligned with the locking posts and seal in order to accommodate a wide tolerance for misalignment during connection and disconnection of the base and tool carrier.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are as follows: 1. A mount for selectively, changeably mounting tools on a piece of robotic equipment, the robotic equipment having an associated supply of pressurized fluid to be provided to a tool mounted on the robotic equipment, comprising: a robot mount connector base having a first side adapted to be secured to the piece of robotic equipment and a second side opposite said first side; a tool carrier member having a first side and an opposite second side, said tool carrier member second side being configured to engage and mate with said second side of said robot mount connector base; a tool fastener secured to said first side of said tool carrier member, said tool fastener being adapted to selectively mount and secure a tool thereon; a plurality of pressurized fluid base fixtures coupled to said robot mount connector base, said pressurized fluid base fixtures adapted to receive and direct pressurized fluid therethrough, each of said pressurized fluid base fixtures having a first inlet connector adapted to be coupled to the pressurized fluid supply of said robotic equipment, each of said pressurized fluid base fixtures having a reciprocably operated outlet valve with a forwardly disposed valve face that reciprocates toward and away from said robot mount connector base, said outlet valves providing a flow of pressurized fluid through said valve faces when said valve faces are forced toward said robot mount connector bases, and said outlet valves shutting off a flow of pressurized fluid through said valve faces when said valve faces are moved away from said robot mount connector base; an elongated elastomeric seal member mounted on said second side of said tool carrier member, said elongated seal member including a plurality of pressurized fluid ports provided thereon, each of said pressurized fluid ports having an outlet with an outlet connector adapted to be operably coupled to a pressurized fluid tubing in order to convey the pressurized fluid to a tool mounted on said tool carrier member, each of said pressurized fluid ports having a port inlet defining a generally planar inlet surface thereabout, said elastomeric seal member further including a raised seat at each of said port inlets, said elastomeric raised seats configured to mateably contact said valve faces of said pressurized fluid base fixture and thereby form a fluid-tight seal at said valve faces when said valve faces are forced into contact and engagement with said elongated elastomeric seal member extending about said plurality of valve faces; and a connector lock carried on one of said robot mount connector base and said tool carrier member, said connector lock adapted to selectively engage and fixedly secure the other of said robot mount connector base and said tool carrier member, whereby the seal between said pressurized fluid base fixture and said pressurized fluid inlet ports is formed at said valve faces in order to allow greater tolerances in alignment of said robot mount connector base and said tool carrier member. 2. A mount according to claim 1, wherein said elongated elastomeric seal member comprises an elongated arcuate-shaped elastomeric seal member. 3. The robotic tool mount of claim 2, wherein: said robot mount connector base has a central axis of travel along which said robot mount connector base is advanced for connection to said tool carrier member; said connector lock comprises at least one locking post reciprocably carried on said second side of said robot mount connector base so as to reciprocate generally normal to said central axis of travel; and said tool carrier member comprises a locking wall generally aligned with said axis of travel and including a lock post seat therein, said lock post seat configured and disposed so as to selectively receive and seat said lock post. 4. The robotic tool mount of claim 3, wherein: said connector lock comprises a plurality of said lock posts reciprocally mounted on said second side of said robot mount connector base, said lock posts reciprocably carried so as to converge generally toward and diverge generally away from said axis of travel; and said tool carrier member comprises a plurality of lock post seats therein. 5. The robotic tool mount of claim 4, further comprising: an activation piston reciprocably mounted in said robot mount connector base, said activation piston reciprocably mounted so as to move generally parallel to said axis of travel, said activation piston having an engagement surface configured and disposed to selectively engage and forcibly diverge said lock posts outwardly toward a locked position. 6. The robotic tool mount of claim 5, wherein: said lock posts are generally radially aligned with said outlet valve's valve face. 7. The robotic tool mount of claim 6, further comprising: a seal wall projecting about said second side of said robot mount connector base, said seal wall having a tapered seal surface thereon; said locking wall projecting from said second surface of said tool carrier member, said locking wall having a tapered seal surface sloped to selectively engage and seal against said seal wall; and a seal carried on one of said seal wall and said locking wall. 8. The robotic tool mount of claim 7, wherein: said lock posts are generally radially aligned with said seal wall. 9. The robotic tool mount of claim 8, further comprising: a pair of conical alignment posts projecting from one of said robot mount connector base second side and said tool carrier member second side, and a pair of post sockets defined in the other of said second sides, said post sockets dimensioned and disposed to receive said conical alignment posts. 10. A mount according to claim 1, wherein said elongated elastomeric seal comprises a unitary seal. 11. The robotic tool mount of claim 10, wherein: said raised seats each comprise a raised generally circular ridge encircling and spaced from a respective pressurized fluid port inlet. 12. The robotic tool mount of claim 11, wherein: said pressurized fluid base fixtures each comprise a generally circular outlet disk having said valve faces thereon, each of said disks having an outer circumference dimensioned to be closely received within a respective raised ridge and having a thickness to be partially received within said respective raised ridge. 13. A mount according to claim 1, wherein said elongated elastomeric seal includes a guide surface for guiding said tool carrier member into alignment with said robot mount connector base. 14. A robot tool mount for selectively mounting a tool on a robot, comprising: a mounting base having a first side adapted to be secured to the robot and a second side opposite said first side, said second side including a sealing surface; a tool carrier having a tool mounting fixture on a first side thereof, said tool carrier having a second side opposite said first side; a plurality of lock posts mounted on said mounting base second side, said lock posts reciprocating between a converged disconnected position and a diverged locked position; and a lock wall of said tool carrier projecting from said tool carrier second side, said lock wall having an outwardly facing tapered surface dimensioned to matingly engage said sealing surface of said mounting base, said lock wall having a plurality of notches with a cylindrical member disposed in each respective notch, said cylindrical members and said notches forming lock seats to receive said lock posts. 15. The robot tool mount of claim 14, wherein: said lock posts have an outer engaging end disposed to selectively engage a respective lock seat, and each of said outer engaging ends sloped at an acute angle relative said mounting base second end. 16. The robot tool mount of claim 15, further comprising: an activation post moveably mounted on said mounting base and disposed to be selectively moved between and diverge said lock posts. 17. The robot tool mount of claim 16, wherein: said activation post has a tapered end, with three tapered surfaces, three said lock posts contacting said activation post tapered surfaces. 18. The robot tool mount of claim 17, further comprising: a pair of conical guide posts projecting from said mounting base second side; a pair of sockets defined in said tool carrier second side and disposed to receive said conical guide posts. 19. The robot tool mount of claim 14, further comprising: a pair of conical guide posts projecting from said mounting base second side; a pair of sockets defined in said tool carrier second side and disposed to receive said conical guide posts. 20. The robot tool mount of claim 14, further comprising: a pyramidally shaped activation member reciprocably mounted on said mounting base so as to be selectively moved between and diverge said lock posts. 21. The tool mount of claim 20, further comprising: a plurality of springs biasing said lock posts toward a converged position. 22. The tool mount of claim 21, wherein: said lock posts are spring mounted relative to said mounting base second side, said lock posts biased toward said mounting base second side. 23. The tool mount of claim 14, wherein: said lock posts are spring mounted relative to said mounting base second side, said lock posts biased toward said mounting base second side. 24. A robot tool mount for selectively mounting a tool on a robot, comprising: a mounting base having a first side adapted to be secured to the robot and a second side opposite said first side; a tool carrier having a tool mounting fixture on a first side thereof, said tool carrier having a second side opposite said first side; a plurality of lock posts mounted on said mounting base second side, said lock posts reciprocating between a converged disconnected position and a diverged locked position; a seal wall projecting from said mounting base second side about said lock posts, said seal wall having an inwardly facing tapered seal surface, said lock posts generally aligned with said seal wall and oriented to diverge toward said seal wall; a lock wall projecting from said tool carrier second side, said lock wall having an outwardly facing tapered surface dimensioned to matingly engage said seal wall tapered seal surface, said lock wall having a plurality of lock seats formed therein disposed to receive said lock posts, each of said lock seats comprising a notch with a cylindrical bar disposed in each respective notch, each of said lock posts having an outer engaging end disposed to selectively engage a respective lock seat, and each of said outer engaging ends sloped at an acute angle relative said mounting base second end. 25. A robot tool mount according to claim 24, further comprising at least one pressurized fluid base fixture coupled to said robot mount connector base, said pressurized fluid base fixture adapted to receive and direct pressurized fluid therethrough, said pressurized fluid base fixture having a first inlet connector adapted to be coupled to a pressurized fluid supply of a robotic equipment, said pressurized fluid base fixture having a reciprocably operated outlet valve with a forwardly disposed valve face that reciprocates toward and away from said robot mount connector base, said outlet valve providing a flow of pressurized fluid through said valve face when said valve face is forced toward said robot mount connector base and said outlet valve shutting off a flow of pressurized fluid through said valve face when said valve face is moved away from said robot mount connector base; and at least one pressurized fluid port provided on said tool carrier, said pressurized fluid port having an outlet with an outlet connector adapted to be operably coupled to a pressurized fluid tubing in order to convey the pressurized fluid to a tool mounted on said tool carrier, said pressurized fluid port having a port inlet defining a generally planar inlet surface. 26. A robot tool mount according to claim 25, further comprising an elastomeric seal member extending around said pressurized fluid port, said elastomeric seal member forming an elastomeric raised seat about said port inlet, and said elastomeric raised seat being configured to mateable contact said valve face of said pressurized fluid based fixture thereby forming a fluid-tight seal at said valve face when said valve face is forced into contact and engagement of said elastomeric seal member. 27. A robot tool mount according to claim 26, wherein said elastomeric seal member comprises an arcuate elastomeric boot. 28. A robot tool mount for selectively mounting a tool on a robot, comprising: a mounting base having a first side adapted to be secured to the robot and a second side opposite said first side; a tool carrier having a tool mounting fixture on a first side thereof, said tool carrier having a second side opposite said first side; a plurality of lock posts mounted on said mounting base second side, said lock posts reciprocating between a converged disconnected position and a diverged locked position; a seal wall projecting from said mounting base second side about said lock posts, said seal wall having an inwardly facing tapered seal surface, said lock posts generally aligned with said seal wall and oriented to diverge toward said seal wall; a lock wall projecting from said tool carrier second side, said lock wall having an outwardly facing tapered surface dimensioned to matingly engage said seal wall tapered seal surface, said lock wall having a plurality of lock seats formed therein disposed to receive said lock posts, and each of said lock seats comprising a notch with a cylindrical bar disposed in each respective notch. 29. A robot tool mount according to claim 28, further comprising: at least one pressurized fluid base fixture coupled to said robot mount connector base, said pressurized fluid base fixture adapted to receive and direct pressurized fluid therethrough, said pressurized fluid base fixture having a first inlet connector adapted to be coupled to a pressurized fluid supply of a robotic equipment, said pressurized fluid base fixture having a reciprocably operated outlet valve with a forwardly disposed valve face that reciprocates toward and away from said robot mount connector base, said outlet valve providing a flow of pressurized fluid through said valve face when said valve face is forced toward said robot mount connector base and said outlet valve shutting off a flow of pressurized fluid through said valve face when said valve face is moved away from said robot mount connector base; and at least one pressurized fluid port provided on said tool carrier, said pressurized fluid port having an outlet with an outlet connector adapted to be operably coupled to a pressurized fluid tubing in order to convey the pressurized fluid to a tool mounted on said tool carrier, said pressurized fluid port having a port inlet defining a generally planar inlet surface. 30. A robot tool mount according to claim 28, further comprising an elastomeric seal member extending around said pressurized fluid port, said elastomeric seal member forming an elastomeric raised seat about said port inlet, and said elastomeric raised seat being configured to mateable contact said valve face of said pressurized fluid based fixture thereby forming a fluid-tight seal at said valve face when said valve face is forced into contact and engagement of said elastomeric seal member. 31. A robot tool mount according to claim 30, said elastomeric seal member comprises an arcuate elastomeric boot. 32. A mount for selectively, changeably mounting tools on a piece of robotic equipment, the robotic equipment having a supply of pressurized fluid to be provided to a tool mounted on said mount, said mount comprising: a base having a first side and a second side, said first side being adapted to be secured to the piece of robotic equipment, said second side being opposite from said first side and including a plurality of supply nozzles extending therefrom; a tool carrier member having a first side and a second side, said first side of said tool carrier member being adapted to support a tool and including a plurality of connectors, said first side of said tool carrier being opposite from said second side of said tool carrier member, and said second side of said tool carrier member being configured to releasably engage and releasably mate with said second side of said base and including an elongate recess; an elastomeric body having a plurality of transverse openings, each of said transverse openings defining an inlet port for sealingly engaging a respective supply nozzle of said plurality of supply nozzles, each of said inlet ports being in communication with a respective connector of said plurality of connectors, said elastomeric body being positioned in said elongate recess, each of said supply nozzles being adapted to provide a flow of pressurized fluid through said supply nozzles when said supply nozzles are aligned with and urged into engagement with said inlet ports of said elastomeric body and to shut off the flow of pressurized fluid through said nozzles when said supply nozzles are disengaged from said inlet ports, said elastomeric body sealing said supply nozzles against said tool carrier member and aligning said supply nozzles with said transverse openings in said elastomeric body and said connectors for delivering a supply of pressurized fluid through said connectors to a tool mounted on said tool carrier member. 33. A mount according to claim 32, wherein said elastomeric body comprises an elongated elastomeric body having opposed distal ends. 34. A mount according to claim 32, wherein said elongate recess comprises an arcuate recess. 35. A mount according to claim 32, wherein said second side of said tool carrier member includes an outer surface, said elastomeric body being positioned in said elongate recess below said outer surface. 36. A mount according to claim 32, wherein said elastomeric body has a snug fit in said recess. 37. A mount according to claim 32, wherein each of said inlet ports includes a ridge encircling the respective inlet port, said ridges sealing against said second side of said base when said tool carrier member is engaged with said base. 38. A robot tool mount for selectively mounting a tool on a robot, comprising: a base having a first side adapted to be secured to the robot and a second side opposite said first side, said second side of said base including an annular wall defining a receiving socket; a tool carrier member having a first side adapted to support a tool and a second side opposite said first side, said tool carrier member aligning with said base along an axis and seating in said socket when mounted to said base; a plurality of lock posts mounted on said second side of said base and being arranged in a plane generally orthogonal to said axis, each of said lock posts having an inwardly extending end and an outwardly extending end, said lock posts moving between a converged disconnected position and a diverged locked position where said outwardly extending ends extend toward said annular wall for engaging said tool carrier member when said tool carrier member is mounted on said base, and said lock posts are biased in said converged disconnected position; and an activation member moveably mounted on said base along said axis, said activation member having a shaft and an end portion having a plurality of tapers corresponding to said lock posts, said tapers urging said lock posts outwardly from said converged disconnected position to said diverged locked position when said activation member protrudes from said base and moves from a retracted unlocking position toward an extended locking position, and said tapers disengaging from said lock posts when said activation member is in said extended locking position hereby locking said lock posts in said diverged locked position. 39. The robot tool mount of claim 38, wherein said second side of said base includes three lock posts. 40. The robot tool mount of claim 38, wherein said tool carrier member includes a lock wall projecting from said second side of said tool carrier member, said lock wall having an outwardly facing surface dimensioned to matingly engage said annular wall of said base and including a plurality of lock seats formed therein to receive said lock posts. 41. The robot tool mount of claim 40, wherein each of said lock seats comprises a notch with a cylindrical member disposed in each respective notch. 42. The robot tool mount of claim 38, wherein each of said lock posts includes a spring, said springs biasing said lock posts toward said converged disconnected position. 43. The robot tool mount of claim 38, wherein each of said activation member includes at least one spring biasing said activation member toward said extended locking position. 