An apparatus and method are provided for integrating an intelligent manufacturing system with an expert sheet metal planning and bending system. The intelligent manufacturing system manages and distributes part design and manufacturing information throughout the locations of a production facility. The expert planning system includes a plurality of expert modules for proposing a bending plan, including bend sequence and tooling selections, and robot motion planning and repositioning. Through the various features and aspects of the present invention, an operator can selectively modify and adapt these integrated systems for particular bend applications, including robot-based and human assisted bending operations.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: an intelligent manufacturing system which develops a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced; an expert planning system which develops bending plan information related to a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model, said expert planning system including a plurality of expert modules; and a system to select a set of said plurality of expert modules in order to adapt said expert planning system for different bending applications, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 2. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 1, wherein said system to select said set of said plurality of expert modules comprises means for indicating to said expert planning system said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 3. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 2, wherein said indicating means indicates said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected based on Feature Exchange Language (FEL) commands. 4. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 3, wherein said FEL commands comprise a TYPE EXPERTS command to indicate said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 5. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 1, wherein said different bending applications comprise robot-assisted bending operations and manual, operator-assisted bending operations. 6. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 1, said plurality of expert modules comprising a planning expert module, said planning expert module proposing and developing a bend sequence based on said bend model. 7. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 6, said plurality of expert modules further comprising a tooling expert module, a holding expert module and a motion expert module. 8. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 7, said planning expert module comprising means for selectively querying said tooling expert module, said holding expert module or said motion expert module to obtain expert information and to develop said bend sequence. 9. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 8, wherein said tooling expert module provides tooling information to said planning expert module, said tooling information including a tool type needed for performing a bend operation in said bend sequence. 10. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 8, wherein said holding expert module provides holding information to said planning expert module, said holding information including a location where a robot can grasp said sheet metal part during a bend operation in said bend sequence. 11. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 8, wherein said motion expert module generates and provides motion plan information to said planning expert module, said motion plan information including a robot motion path for handling said sheet metal part to perform bending operations in said bend sequence. 12. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 8, said planning expert module further comprising means for generating said bending plan information based on said bend sequence and said expert information obtained from said expert modules that are selected. 13. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 1, further comprising a constraint system for selectively constraining said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint. 14. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 13, said constraint system comprising a constraint manager for developing a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint, and means for conveying said constraint phrase to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said constraint phrase. 15. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 14, wherein said defined constraint comprises a bend sequence constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence constraint. 16. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 1, wherein said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system comprises a bend sequence for performing bending operations and producing said sheet metal part. 17. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 16, further comprising means for displaying said bend sequence developed by said expert planning system and means for selectively modifying said bend sequence. 18. In an integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system comprising an expert planning system having a plurality of expert modules, a method for developing a bending plan for producing a sheet metal part in accordance with one of a plurality of bending applications, said bending applications including a robot-assisted bending application and a manual, operator-assisted bending application, said method comprising: creating a bend model of said sheet metal part to be produced, said bend model comprising bend model data; selecting a set of said plurality of expert modules in accordance with one of said plurality of bending applications; developing a proposed bending plan based on said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected; displaying said proposed bending plan; and storing said proposed bending plan as a final bending plan under a predetermined condition. 19. A method according to claim 18, wherein said proposed bending plan is stored as the final bending plan after said proposed bending plan has been reviewed and confirmed by an operator. 20. A method according to claim 18, further comprising deleting said proposed bending plan when said proposed bending plan is not confirmed by an operator, entering a constraint to selectively constrain said set of said expert modules that are selected, and developing another proposed bending plan with said set of said expert modules in accordance with said constraint. 21. A method according to claim 18, wherein said plurality of expert modules are selected based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE EXPERTS command to indicate said set of said expert modules that are selected. 23. A method according to claim 18, said plurality of expert modules comprising a planning expert module, said proposed bending plan being developed by proposing and developing a bend sequence with said planning expert module based on said bend model data. 24. A method according to claim 23, said plurality of expert modules further comprising a tooling expert module, a holding expert module and a motion expert module, said method further comprising selectively querying said tooling expert module, said holding expert module or said motion expert module with said planning expert module to obtain expert information and to develop said bend sequence. 25. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: an intelligent manufacturing system to develop a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced; an expert planning system to develop and propose a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model; and a constraint system to selectively constrain said bending plan developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint, said constraint system including a constraint manager which develops a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint, wherein said expert planning system develops said bending plan in accordance with said constraint phrase. 26. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, wherein said defined constraint comprises a bend sequence constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence constraint. 27. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, wherein said defined constraint comprises a tool selection constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said tool selection constraint. 28. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, further comprising means for entering a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence entered by entering means. 29. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, wherein said defined constraint comprises a partial bend sequence constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said partial bend sequence constraint. 30. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 26, wherein said constraint manager comprises means for developing an initial constraint phrase based on said bend sequence, means for detecting co-linear bends in said sheet metal part, and means for modifying said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said co-linear bends. 31. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 30, said constraint manager further comprising means for detecting Z-bends in said sheet metal part, and means for modifying said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said Z-bends. 32. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 31, wherein said means for modifying said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said Z-bends modifies said initial constraint phrase based on said Z-bend detecting means detecting Z-bends in accordance with the following: Z<N.times.T, wherein "Z" is the height of the Z-bend, "T" is the thickness of said sheet metal part, and "N" is a predetermined coefficient. 33. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, further comprising entering means, associated with said intelligent manufacturing system, for entering a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence entered by said entering means, said entering means comprising a sequence table that includes an identification number for each bend in said sheet metal part and an associated bend sequence number in accordance with said bend sequence, said identification number for each bend being associated with a first set of bend identification numbers. 34. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 33, further comprising a matching identification table for matching said first set of bend identification numbers, associated with said intelligent manufacturing system, with a second set of bend identification numbers, associated with said expert planning system, and a final bend sequence table that includes identification numbers for each bend, in accordance with said second set of bend identification numbers, and a translated bend sequence number based on said sequence table and said matching identification table. 35. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, wherein said defined constraint comprises a plurality of constraint expressions, said constraint manager comprising means for detecting conflicts between said constraint expressions based on a presence of common operating constraints within a pair of said constraint expressions. 36. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, wherein said constraint system selectively constrains said bending plan based on a plurality of defined constraints, said constraint manager comprising means for detecting and resolving conflicts among the defined constraints, and means for developing said constraint phrase based on the resolved conflicts. 37. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system according to claim 25, further comprising a display for displaying said constraint phrase developed by said constraint manager to an operator so that the operator may review and confirm said constraint phrase. 38. In an integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, a method for developing constraint phrases based on defined constraints, said method comprising: creating a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced; defining a constraint, said defining comprising developing a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint; and developing and proposing a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part, said bending plan being developed based on said bend model of said sheet metal part and said constraint phrase. 39. A method according to claim 38, wherein said defined constraint comprises a bend sequence constraint, said method further comprising developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence constraint. 40. A method according to claim 38, wherein said defined constraint comprises a tool selection constraint, said method further comprising developing said constraint phrase based on said tool selection constraint. 41. A method according to claim 38, further comprising creating a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence that is created. 42. A method according to claim 38, wherein said constraint phrase is developed by developing an initial constraint phrase based on said bend sequence, detecting co-linear bends in said sheet metal part, and modifying said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said co-linear bends. 43. A method according to claim 42, further comprising detecting Z-bends in said sheet metal part, and modifying said initial constraint phrase based on the detection of said Z-bends. 44. A method according to claim 38, said defined constraint comprising a plurality of constraint expressions, said method further comprising detecting conflicts between said constraint expressions based on a presence of common operating constraints within a pair of said constraint expressions. 45. A method according to claim 38, further comprising defining a plurality of constraints, detecting and resolving conflicts among the defined constraints, and developing said constraint phrase based on the resolved conflicts. 46. A method according to claim 38, further comprising displaying said constraint phrase that is developed to an operator so that the operator may confirm said constraint phrase. 47. An integrated system for developing a bending plan for a sheet metal part to be produced, said system comprising: an intelligent manufacturing system which creates a bend model of said sheet metal part; an expert planning system which develops and proposes bending plan information related to a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model; and an interface module which generates and transfers messages from said intelligent manufacturing system to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said messages, said expert planning system comprising a plurality of expert modules, said integrated system further comprising a system to select a set of said plurality of expert modules in order to adapt said expert planning system for different bending applications, wherein said bending plan information is developed by said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 48. A system according to claim 47, wherein said messages are generated by said interface module based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL), said FEL messages being transferred by said interface module to initialize said expert planning system and to transfer setup information. 49. A system according to claim 47, wherein said interface module comprises a conveying system to convey, to said expert planning system, said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 50. A system according to claim 49, wherein said conveying system conveys said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 51. A system according to claim 50, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE EXPERTS command indicating said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 52. A system according to claim 47, wherein said intelligent manufacturing system and said expert planning system comprise computer-based applications, said interface module comprising sockets which transfer messages and information between said applications of said intelligent manufacturing system and said expert planning system. 53. A system according to claim 47, said expert planning system comprising a transfer system to transfer said bending plan information to said interface module, said bending plan information being transferred based on Feature Exchange Language (FEL) messages, said interface module comprising a system that detects said bending plan information from said expert planning system based on said FEL messages and transfers said bending plan information to said intelligent manufacturing system. 54. An integrated system for developing a bending plan for a sheet metal part to be produced, said system comprising: an intelligent manufacturing system which creates a bend model of said sheet metal part; an expert planning system which develops and proposes bending plan information related to a bending plan for producing said sheet metal part based on said bend model; an interface module which generates and transfers messages from said intelligent manufacturing system to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said messages; and a constraint system which selectively constrains said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint, said constraint system comprising a constraint manager which develops a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint, said interface module comprising an indicating module which indicates said constraint phrase to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said constraint phrase. 55. A system according to claim 54, wherein said indicating module communicates said constraint phrase based on a Feature Exchange Language (FEL) command. 56. A system according to claim 55, wherein said FEL command comprises a TYPE OPTIONS command and a CONSTRAINTS command to indicate said constraint phrase. 57. A system according to claim 54, wherein said intelligent manufacturing system and said expert planning system comprise computer-based applications, said interface module comprising sockets which transfer messages and information between said applications of said intelligent manufacturing system and said expert planning system. 58. A system according to claim 54, said expert planning system comprising a transfer system to transfer said bending plan information to said interface module, said bending plan information being transferred based on Feature Exchange Language (FEL) messages, said interface module comprising a system that detects said bending plan information from said expert planning system based on said FEL messages and transfers said bending plan information to said intelligent manufacturing system. 59. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: an intelligent manufacturing system for creating a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced, said bend model comprising bend model data; an expert planning system for developing, based on said bend model data, bending plan information for producing said sheet metal part; and a system for selectively activating said expert planning system for different bending applications, whereby an operator may independently develop a bending plan based on said bend model or selectively activate said expert planning system to develop said proposed bending plan information. 60. A system according to claim 59, said expert planning system comprising a plurality of expert modules, said integrated system further comprising a system for selecting a set of said plurality of expert modules, wherein said bending plan information is developed by said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 61. A system according to claim 60, wherein said set of said plurality of expert modules comprises all of said expert modules, said bending plan information being developed by all of said expert modules. 62. A system according to claim 60, wherein said set of said plurality of expert modules comprises at least one of said expert modules, said bending plan information being developed by said at least one of said expert modules. 63. A system according to claim 60, wherein said bending plan information comprises one or more items from the group including: a bend sequence, tool selection, tool stage layout, robot motion paths, repositioning and backgauge settings. 64. A system according to claim 59, further comprising a constraint system for selectively constraining said bending plan information developed by said expert planning system based on a defined constraint. 65. A system according to claim 64, said constraint system comprising a constraint manager for developing a constraint phrase in accordance with said defined constraint, said integrated system further comprising means for indicating said constraint phrase to said expert planning system, said expert planning system developing said bending plan information based on said constraint phrase. 66. A system according to claim 65, further comprising means for entering a bend sequence, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said bend sequence entered by said entering means. 67. A system according to claim 65, wherein said defined constraint comprises a tool selection constraint, said constraint manager developing said constraint phrase based on said tool selection constraint. 68. A system according to claim 60, said plurality of expert modules comprising a planning expert module, said planning expert module proposing and developing a bend sequence based on said bend model. 69. A system according to claim 68, said plurality of expert modules further comprising a tooling expert module, a holding expert module and a motion expert module. 70. A system according to claim 69, said planning expert module comprising a system for selectively querying said tooling expert module, said holding expert module or said motion expert module to obtain expert information and to develop said bend sequence. 71. An integrated sheet metal manufacturing and production system, comprising: an intelligent manufacturing system for creating a bend model of a sheet metal part to be produced, said bend model comprising bend model data; an expert planning system for developing, based on said bend model data, bending plan information for producing said sheet metal part; and a system for selectively activating said expert planning system for different bending applications, whereby an operator may independently develop a bending plan based on said bend model or selectively activate said expert planning system to develop said proposed bending plan information, said expert planning system comprising a plurality of expert modules, said integrated system further comprising a system for selecting a set of said plurality of expert modules, wherein said bending plan information is developed by said set of said plurality of expert modules that are selected. 