Apparatus for a wireless computer controlled toy system is disclosed, the apparatus including a computer system operative to transmit a first transmission via a first wireless transmitter and at least one toy including a first wireless receiver, the toy receiving the first transmission via the first wireless receiver and operative to carry out at least one action based on said first transmission. A method for controlling the toy system is also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. Wireless computer controlled toy apparatus comprising: a computer assembly including a first wireless transmitter and a first wireless receiver, said computer assembly being operative to command the at least one toy to perform an operation by transmitting a first transmission via the first wireless transmitter; and at least one toy comprising a second wireless receiver and a second wireless transmitter, said toy receiving said first transmission via said second wireless receiver and being operative to perform said operation and to provide said computer assembly with feedback pertaining to performance of the operation by transmitting a second transmission via the second wireless transmitter to the computer assembly's first wireless receiver, and wherein at least one subsequent transmission by the computer assembly to the at least one toy at least partly depends on said second transmission. 2. A system according to claim 1 wherein the computer assembly comprises computer game software. 3. A system according to claim 2 wherein the first transmission comprises a control command chosen from a plurality of available control commands based, at least in part, on a result of operation of the computer game. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first transmission includes voice information and toy control information and wherein said first transmission is transmitted from the computer assembly to the at least one toy via a first channel including a single wireless transmitter, and wherein said toy comprises a microcontroller operative to differentiate between said voice information and said toy control information. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said computer assembly comprises a general purpose household computer. 6. A system according to claim 1 wherein said operation comprises movement of the toy. 7. A system according to claim 1 wherein said operation comprises movement of a part of the toy. 8. A system according to claim 1 wherein said operation comprises output of a sound. 9. A system according to claim 8 wherein the sound comprises music. 10. A system according to claim 8 wherein the sound comprises a pre-recorded sound. 11. A system according to claim 8 wherein the sound comprises speech. 12. A system according to claim 11 wherein the speech comprises recorded speech. 13. A system according to claim 11 wherein the speech comprises synthesized speech. 14. A system according to claim 8 wherein the sound is transmitted using a MIDI protocol. 15. A system according to claim 1 wherein the first transmission comprises a digital signal. 16. A system according to claim 15 wherein the computer assembly comprises a computer having a MIDI port and wherein the computer is operative to transmit the digital signal by way of the MIDI port. 17. A system according to claim 1 wherein the first transmission comprises an analog signal. 18. A system according to claim 17 wherein the analog signal comprises sound. 19. A system according to claim 1 wherein the at least one toy has a plurality of states comprising at least a sleep state and an awake state, and wherein the first transmission comprises a state transition command, and wherein the at least one action comprises transitioning between the sleep state and the awake state. 20. A system according to claim 1 wherein the at least one toy comprises a plurality of toys. 21. A system according to claim 1 wherein the second transmission comprises toy identification data, and wherein the computer system is operative to identify the at least one toy based, at least in part, on the toy identification data. 22. A system according to claim 21 wherein the computer system is operative to adapt a mode of operation thereof based, at least in part, on the toy identification data. 23. A system according to claim 21 wherein the first transmission comprises toy identification data. 24. A system according to claim 1 wherein said operation comprises a plurality of actions. 25. A system according to claim 1 wherein the at least one toy comprises sound input apparatus, wherein the second transmission comprises a sound signal which represents a sound input via the sound input apparatus. 26. A system according to claim 25 wherein the sound comprises speech, wherein the computer assembly is operative to perform a speech recognition operation on the speech. 27. A system according to claim 25 wherein the computer system is operative to record the sound signal. 28. A system according to claim 27 wherein the computer system is also operative to perform at least one of the following actions: manipulate the sound signal; and play the sound signal. 29. A system according to claim 1 wherein the computer assembly comprises a plurality of computers. 30. A method according to claim 29 wherein the first transmission comprises computer identification data. 31. A method according to claim 29 wherein the second transmission comprises computer identification data. 32. A system according to claim 1 and also comprising at least one input device and wherein said second transmission includes a status of said at least one input device. 33. A system according to claim 1 wherein the at least one toy comprises at least a first toy and a second toy, and wherein the first toy is operative to transmit a toy-to-toy transmission to the second toy via said second wireless transmitter, and wherein the second toy is operative to carry out at least one action based on said toy-to-toy transmission. 34. Apparatus according to claim 1 and wherein: said first transmission comprises a toy identifier, a command and voice information; said at least one toy comprises a plurality of toys each comprising a second wireless receiver, each toy receiving said first transmission via its second wireless receiver, each toy being operative to carry out at least one action based on said transmission if and only if the toy identifier specifies that toy; at least one toy from among said plurality of toys also includes a second wireless transmitter operative to transmit a second transmission to said first wireless receiver; and transmissions sent by the computer assembly subsequent to said second transmission depend at least in part on said second transmission. 35. Apparatus according to claim 34 wherein said command comprises a command to the toy to transmit voice information to the computer assembly and wherein said first transmission also comprises an indication of a transmission cessation time at which transmission of voice information is to terminate and wherein each toy is operative to transmit voice information to the computer assembly until said transmission cessation time if and only if the toy identifier specifies that toy. 36. Apparatus according to claim 34 wherein said second transmission is at least partly determined by an interaction of a user with said at least one toy and wherein said second transmission also comprises a toy identifier. 37. Apparatus according to claim 34 wherein said first transmission is transmitted from the computer assembly to the at least one toy via a first channel including no wireless transmitters other than said first wireless transmitter, and wherein each toy comprises a microcontroller operative to differentiate between said voice information and said command. 