A substrate aligner for a substrate carrier or cassette including an engagement assembly for moving and maintaining one or more substrates into an aligned position when closed, and an actuator assembly for opening and closing the engagement assembly. In one embodiment, the engagement assembly includes front and back engagement assemblies for mounting at opposite corners of the housing to thereby interface opposite comers of the substrates. Each engagement assembly preferably includes a roller for interfacing a corresponding edge of each the substrates, where the front assembly includes two rollers for interfacing front edges and adjacent side edges, and the back engagement assembly includes two rollers for interfacing the back edges and the opposite side edges of the substrates. In this manner, the engagement assembly interfaces all four edges of each substrate to thereby manipulate and maintain the substrates into a substantially aligned position when closed. The rollers preferably rotate to avoid scraping of the substrate edges which might otherwise generate contaminating particulate. Furthermore, the rollers have compliant outer surfaces to dampen potentially damaging forces. Thus, the compliant rollers sufficiently constrain the substrates to prevent significant movement, while also protecting the substrates from g-forces, harsh movements and vibrations during transport. The actuator assembly preferably includes a bistable, four bar linkage including two stable and locked modes corresponding to the open and closed positions. In an alternative embodiment, the housing includes back stops and front bumpers to facilitate front to back alignment, and side-mounted single-roller assemblies for lateral alignment.
Claims We claim: 1. A substrate aligner for a substrate carrier, the carrier including a housing for receiving and supporting a plurality of substrates in a spaced relationship relative to each other, said substrate aligner comprising: an engagement assembly for mounting to the housing for engaging, moving and maintaining the plurality of substrates into a substantially linearly and rotationally aligned position when said engagement assembly is moved to a closed position and for being disengaged from the plurality of substrates when in an open position for allowing insertion and extraction of the plurality of substrates; and an actuator assembly for mounting to the housing and operatively coupled to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 2. The substrate aligner of claim 1, wherein said engagement assembly comprises: a first engagement assembly; and a second engagement assembly. 3. A substrate aligner for use with a substrate carrier, the carrier including a substantially rectangular housing for receiving and supporting a plurality of substrates in a spaced relationship relative to each other, said substrate aligner comprising: an engagement assembly including a front engagement assembly and a back engagement assembly that are each configured to be pivotally mounted to the housing for engaging and maintaining the plurality of substrates in a substantially aligned position when said engagement assembly is moved to a closed position and for disengaging the plurality of substrates when in an open position to allow insertion and extraction of the plurality of substrates; and an actuator assembly configured to be mounted to the housing and operatively coupled to said engagement assembly to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 4. The substrate aligner of claim 3, wherein said actuator assembly comprises: a front actuator assembly for mounting near said front corner of the housing for pivotally engaging said front engagement assembly; and a back actuator assembly for mounting near said back corner of the housing for pivotally engaging said back engagement assembly. 5. The substrate aligner of claim 4, wherein said front and back actuator assemblies each comprise: an actuator housing for mounting to the housing of the carrier; an output shaft pivotally mounted to said actuator housing and for pivotally engaging a corresponding engagement assembly; and a multiple bar linkage operatively coupled to said output shaft to move said corresponding engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 6. The substrate aligner of claim 5, wherein said multiple bar linkage has two stable modes corresponding to said open and closed positions, respectively. 7. A substrate aligner for use with a substrate carrier, the carrier including a substantially rectangular housing for receiving and supporting a plurality of substrates in a spaced relationship relative to each other, said substrate aligner comprising: an engagement assembly including a front engagement assembly and a back engagement assembly, said front and back engagement assemblies each being configured for mounting to the housing for engaging and maintaining the plurality of substrates in a substantially aligned position when said engagement assembly is moved to a closed position and for disengaging the plurality of substrates when in an open position to allow insertion and extraction of the plurality of substrates, wherein each of said front and back engagement assemblies further includes first and second engagement members that are configured for engaging adjacent edges of each of the plurality of substrates when said front and back engagement assemblies are in closed positions; and an actuator assembly configured for mounting to the housing and operatively coupled to said engagement assembly to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 8. The substrate aligner of claim 7, wherein said first and second engagement members of said front engagement assembly are provided for engaging a front edge and an adjacent side edge, respectively, of each of the plurality of substrates, and wherein said first and second engagement members of said back engagement assembly are provided for engaging a back edge and an adjacent side edge, respectively, of each of the plurality of substrates, for substantially aligning the substrates in a lateral direction and in a front to back direction with respect to the housing when said front and back engagement assemblies are both in said closed positions. 9. The substrate aligner of claim 7, wherein said first and second engagement members each comprise rollers. 10. The substrate aligner of claim 9, wherein each of said rollers have cylindrical bodies which rotate. 11. The substrate aligner of claim 10, wherein each of said rollers have compliant outer surfaces. 12. The substrate aligner of claim 10, wherein the housing of the carrier includes top and bottom plates, and wherein said front and back engagement assemblies each comprise: said first and second engagement members each having opposite ends for defining a center line orthogonal with and for extending between the top and bottom plates of the housing; and top and bottom support plates for pivotally mounting said opposite ends of said first and second engagement members to enable rotation about said orthogonal center lines. 13. The substrate aligner of claim 12, wherein said front and back engagement assemblies each further comprise: a support pole integrally mounted between said top and bottom support plates. 14. The substrate aligner of claim 12, wherein said front and back engagement assemblies are each configured to be pivotally mounted to the housing between the top and bottom plates of the housing. 15. The substrate aligner of claim 14, wherein each of said front and back engagement assemblies pivot with respect to an orthogonal pivot line located between said orthogonal center lines and at an offset from a plane defined by said orthogonal center lines of said first and second engagement members. 16. A substrate aligner for use with a substrate carrier, the carrier including a housing for receiving and supporting a plurality of substrates in a spaced relationship relative to each other, said substrate aligner comprising: an engagement assembly configured for mounting to the housing for engaging and maintaining the plurality of substrates into a substantially aligned position when said engagement assembly is moved to a closed position and for disengaging the plurality of substrates when in an open position for allowing insertion and extraction of the plurality of substrates; and an actuator assembly configured for mounting to the housing and operatively coupled to pivotally engage said engagement assembly to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 17. The substrate aligner of claim 16, wherein said actuator assembly comprises: an actuator housing for mounting to the housing of the carrier; an output shaft pivotally mounted to said actuator housing and for pivotally engaging said engagement assembly; and a multiple bar linkage operatively coupled to said output shaft to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 18. The substrate aligner of claim 17, wherein said multiple bar linkage has two stable modes corresponding to said open and closed positions, respectively. 19. The substrate aligner of claim 18, wherein said multiple bar linkage has an over-center design in both open and closed positions to achieve said two stable modes. 20. The substrate aligner of claim 17, wherein said multiple bar linkage comprises a four bar linkage, which comprises: a drive crank pivotally mounted to said actuator housing and having first and second positions corresponding to said open and closed positions, respectively; a coupler member having one end pivotally mounted to said drive crank and a second end; and a rocker having a first end pivotally mounted to said second end of said coupler member and a second end; wherein said output shaft is mounted to said second end of said rocker for engaging and moving said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions when said output shaft is rotated between said first and second positions, respectively. 21. The substrate aligner of claim 20, wherein said actuator assembly further comprises: an extension spring having one end mounted to said housing and another end attached to said coupler member for applying leverage to enforce said first and second positions of said drive crank. 22. The substrate aligner of claim 21, wherein said drive crank is pivoted relative to a drive crank pivot point to extend a line of force defined by said first and second ends of said coupler member beyond a horizontal base line of said drive crank pivot point in both of said first and second positions to achieve a locking position for said first and second positions. 23. The substrate aligner of claim 1, wherein the housing includes back stops for engaging back edges of the plurality of substrates, and a pivotally mounted front door with front bumpers for engaging and aligning front edges of the plurality of substrates when the front door is closed, so that the plurality of substrates are substantially aligned in the front to back direction of the housing when the front door is closed, said engagement assembly comprising: first and second engagement assemblies for mounting on opposite sides of the housing for engaging opposite side edges, respectively, of the plurality of substrates and for moving each substrate into a laterally aligned position when said engagement assembly is moved from said open position to said closed position. 24. The substrate aligner of claim 23, wherein: said first engagement assembly is mounted off-center towards the back of the housing; and wherein said second engagement assembly is mounted off center towards the front of the housing. 25. The substrate aligner of claim 23, wherein said first and second engagement assemblies each include: an engagement member for engaging a corresponding side edge of each of the plurality of substrates when said engagement assembly is moved to said closed position. 26. The substrate aligner of claim 25, wherein said engagement member comprises a roller which rotates to prevent scraping when engaging the substrates. 27. The substrate aligner of claim 23, wherein said first and second engagement assemblies are for pivotally mounting to the housing. 28. A substrate aligner for a substrate carrier, the substrate carrier including a substantially rectangular housing having front and back sides for receiving and supporting a plurality of substrates in a spaced relationship relative to each other, said substrate aligner comprising: back stops for mounting to the back side of the housing for engaging back edges of the plurality of substrates; a pivotally mounted front door with front bumpers for engaging front edges of the plurality of substrates when the front door is closed, so that the plurality of substrates are moved and substantially aligned in the front to back direction of the housing when said front door is closed; first and second engagement assemblies for mounting on opposite sides of the housing for engaging opposite side edges, respectively, of the plurality of substrates and for moving the substrates into a laterally aligned position when said first and second engagement assemblies are moved from said open position to said closed position; and an actuator assembly for mounting to the housing and operatively coupled to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions; wherein the plurality of substrates are maintained in a substantially aligned position when said front door is closed and when said first and second engagement assemblies are in said closed position. 29. The substrate aligner of claim 28, wherein: said first engagement assembly is mounted off-center towards the back of the housing; and wherein said second engagement assembly is mounted off-center towards the front of the housing. 30. The substrate aligner of claim 28, wherein said first and second engagement assemblies each include: an engagement member for engaging a corresponding side edge of each of the plurality of substrates when said engagement assembly is moved to said closed position. 31. The substrate aligner of claim 30, wherein said engagement member comprises a roller pivotally mounted to rotate when engaging the substrates. 32. The substrate aligner of claim 31, wherein said roller has a compliant outer surface. 33. The substrate aligner of claim 28, wherein said first and second engagement assemblies are pivotally mounted to the housing. 34. A substrate carrier for receiving, supporting and aligning a plurality of substrates, comprising: a housing; a plurality of combs, each having spaced shelves for receiving and supporting the plurality of substrates in a spaced relationship relative to each other; and a substrate aligner assembly mounted to said housing for engaging and moving and maintaining the plurality of substrates into a substantially aligned position when said substrate aligner assembly is moved to a closed position and for being disengaged from the plurality of substrates when in an open position for allowing insertion and extraction of the plurality of substrates. 35. The substrate carrier of claim 34, wherein said substrate aligner assembly comprises: an engagement assembly mounted to said housing for aligning the plurality of substrates when in said closed position and for being disengaged from the plurality of substrates when in said open position; and an actuator assembly for mounting to said housing and operatively coupled to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 36. The substrate carrier of claim 35, wherein the housing is substantially rectangular, and wherein said engagement assembly comprises: a front engagement assembly pivotally mounted near a front corner of the housing; and a back engagement assembly pivotally mounted near a back corner opposite said front corner of the housing. 37. The substrate carrier of claim 36, wherein said front and back engagement assemblies each comprise: first and second engagement members for engaging adjacent edges of each of the plurality of substrates when said engagement assembly is in said closed position. 38. The substrate carrier of claim 37, wherein said first and second engagement members of said front engagement assembly engage a front edge and an adjacent side edge, respectively, of each of the plurality of substrates, and wherein said first and second engagement members of said back engagement assembly engage a back edge and an adjacent side edge, respectively, of each of the plurality of substrates, for substantially aligning the substrates in a lateral direction and in a front to back direction with respect to the housing when said front and back engagement assemblies are both in said closed positions. 39. The substrate carrier of claim 38, wherein each of said engagement members comprise rollers having cylindrical bodies which rotate while orthogonally engaging a corresponding edge of the plurality of substrates. 40. The substrate carrier of claim 39, wherein said rollers each have a compliant outer surface. 41. The substrate carrier of claim 35, wherein said actuator assembly comprises: an actuator housing mounted to said housing of the carrier; an output shaft pivotally mounted to said actuator housing and for pivotally engaging said engagement assembly; and a multiple bar linkage operatively coupled to said output shaft to move said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions. 42. The substrate carrier of claim 41, wherein said multiple bar linkage has two stable modes corresponding to said open and closed positions, respectively. 43. The substrate carrier of claim 42, wherein said multiple bar linkage has an over-center design in both open and closed positions to achieve said two stable modes. 44. The substrate carrier of claim 41, wherein said multiple bar linkage comprises: a drive crank pivotally mounted to said actuator housing and having first and second positions corresponding to said open and closed positions, respectively; a coupler member having one end pivotally mounted to said drive crank and a second end; and a rocker having a first end pivotally mounted to said second end of said coupler member and a second end; wherein said output shaft is mounted to said second end of said rocker for engaging and moving said engagement assembly between said open and closed positions when said output shaft is rotated between said first and second positions, respectively. 45. The substrate carrier of claim 34, the housing including front and back sides wherein said substrate aligner assembly comprises: back stops mounted to the back side of said housing for engaging back edges of the plurality of substrates; a front door for pivotally mounting to the housing, said front door including front bumpers for engaging and aligning front edges of the plurality of substrates when said front door is closed, so that the plurality of substrates are substantially aligned in the front to back direction within said housing when said front door is closed; and first and second engagement assemblies mounted on opposite sides of said housing for engaging opposite side edges, respectively, of the plurality of substrates and for moving the substrates into a laterally aligned position when said first and second engagement assemblies are moved to said closed position. 46. The substrate carrier of claim 45, wherein: said first engagement assembly is mounted off-center towards said back side of said housing; and wherein said second engagement assembly is mounted off-center towards the front of said housing. 47. The substrate carrier of claim 45, wherein said first and second engagement assemblies each include: an engagement member for engaging a corresponding side edge of each of the plurality of substrates when said engagement assembly is in said closed position. 48. The substrate carrier of claim 47, wherein said engagement assemblies each further include: top and bottom support plates; and said engagement member comprising a roller pivotally mounted to rotate between said top and bottom support plates. 49. The substrate carrier of claim 48, wherein said roller has a compliant outer surface for engaging the edges of the substrates. 50. The substrate carrier of claim 45, wherein said first and second engagement assemblies are pivotally mounted to said housing. 