A contact tip for use with a welding gun includes a tapered portion, a threaded portion, an extension portion and a gripping feature. The tip is elongated and has a first end and a second end. The tip also has a wire feed axis extending therethrough and an axial wire feed aperture extending therethrough. The tapered portion of the tip is at a second end of the tip and has a frustaconical shape. The threaded portion of the tip is adjacent the tapered portion. The extension portion of the tip is adjacent the threaded portion and extends to the first end of the tip. The gripping feature is disposed on the extension portion. The tapered portion serves as a retaining feature.
Claims I claim: 1. A contact tip for use with a welding gun, the tip comprising: the tip being elongated in shape and including a first end and a second end having a wire feed axis extending therethrough, and including a wire feed aperture axially passing therethrough; a tapered portion at the second end of the tip having a frustoconical shape; a threaded portion of the tip adjacent the tapered portion; an extension portion of the tip adjacent the threaded portion and extending to the first end; and a gripping feature disposed on the extension portion; wherein the tapered portion serves as a retaining feature and the threaded portion has an axial length of approximately 21/2 times a pitch of the threads enabling the tip to be quickly unthreaded. 2. A welding gun contact tip as claimed in claim 1 wherein the included angle of the tapered portion is not more than approximately 20.degree.. 3. A welding gun contact tip as claimed in claim 1 wherein the gripping feature includes at least one flat surface. 4. A combination of a retaining head nozzle and a welding gun, the combination comprising: a tip including a first end and a second end having a wire feed axis extending therethrough, and including a wire feed aperture axially passing therethrough, a tapered portion at the second end of the tip having a frustoconical shape, a threaded portion of the tip adjacent the tapered portion, an extension portion disposed at the first end, and a gripping feature disposed on the extension portion; and a tip retaining member having an end and having a wire feed aperture aligned with the wire feed aperture of the tip, the wire feed aperture at the end of the tip retaining member receiving the second end of the tip and having internal threads engaged by the threaded portion of the tip and a tapered seat engaged by and complementary in shape to the tapered portion of the tip, wherein, when the tip is subjected to torque in a tightening direction, the tip will resist removal from the tip retaining member because of locking engagement between the tapered portion and the seat, but the threaded portion has an axial length of approximately 21/2 times a pitch of the threads enabling the tip to be quickly unthreaded. 5. A combination of a contact tip and a tip retaining member as claimed in claim 4 wherein the included angle of the tapered portion and the seat is not more than approximately 20.degree.. 6. A combination of a contact tip and a tip retaining member as claimed in claim 4 wherein the gripping feature includes at least one flat surface. 