A modular, transportable for storing substrates, such as semi-conductor wafers and masks, and for maintaining such substrates in a substantially clean environment. Substrates are supported within the housing by a plurality of combs which maintain the substrates in spaced relationship relative to each other. Access to the interior of the housing is permitted by a pivotal door assembly. A docking unit permits interface of the housing with a clean environment. Control circuitry provided in the docking unit detects the presence of a housing and loads/unloads the housing as directed by a host computer through a communication link. A memory device is preferably mounted to the housing for storing history and other information about the substrates within the housing. The host computer directs the control circuitry to retrieve the substrate information from the memory and relay the information to the host computer. During or after processing of the substrates, the host computer updates the memory as desired. In this manner, the host computer controls and tracks one or more docking units and associated substrate housings.
Claims We claim: 1. A housing for maintaining a plurality of substrates in a substantially clean environment, comprising: a box having an interior space and an opening at one end; a plurality of combs integrally mounted within said box for slidably receiving and supporting said plurality of substrates within said interior space and maintaining each one of said plurality of substrates in spaced relationship relative to another one of said plurality of substrates; and a door assembly mounted to said box adjacent said opening of said box for covering said opening when said door assembly is in a closed position and for permitting access to said interior space when in an open position. 2. The housing of claim 1, wherein said plurality of substrates are semiconductor wafers. 3. The housing of claim 1, wherein each one of said combs includes a plurality of spaced shelves extending outward therefrom. 4. The housing of claim 3, wherein each of said shelves have a flat upper surface and a lower surface which tapers outwardly from a forward end. 5. The housing of claim 3, wherein said plurality of combs are aligned so that said shelves on each of said combs are aligned with a corresponding shelf on another one of said combs. 6. The housing of claim 1, wherein said door assembly comprises: a door; pivot means mounted to said door for allowing pivotal movement of said door relative to said box; a latch assembly for holding said door in said closed position; and a seal for sealing said opening of said box with said door for separating said substantially clean environment from ambient air when said door is in said closed position. 7. The housing of claim 6, further comprising: a track assembly mounted to said box for slidably engaging said pivot means to permit translation movement between said box and said door after said door is pivoted to said open position. 8. The housing of claim 7, further comprising: said track assembly including a channel, and further including an abutment at one end for interfacing said pivot means when said door is in said closed position and for providing support for pivoting said door to said open position; and said pivot means including at least one bearing mounted to said door, wherein said bearing engages said abutment to facilitate pivoting said door and wherein said bearing slidably moves within said channel of said track to facilitate said translation movement. 9. The housing of claim 6, wherein said seal comprises: an O-ring; a front panel having an opening for aligning with said opening, said front panel further including a circular groove about its perimeter for receiving said O-ring; mounting means for mounting said front panel to said top, bottom, right and left panels compressing said O-ring creating an airtight seal; a spongy seal; and said door further including a circular groove about its perimeter for receiving said spongy seal, wherein said door compresses said spongy seal between said door and said front panel creating an airtight when said door is in said closed position. 10. The housing of claim 9, further comprising: said front panel including a sharp edge engaging said spongy seal when said door is in said closed position. 11. The housing of claim 6, wherein said door is pivotally opened and slidably moved to a stowed position adjacent a top side of said box. 12. The housing of claim 1, wherein said box further comprises a plurality of panels including a left panel, a right panel, a top panel, a bottom panel and a rear panel, and wherein said left and right panels mate with said top and bottom panels using a lip and groove interface. 13. The housing of claim 12, wherein said left and right panels are chemically bonded to said top and bottom panels to create an airtight seal. 14. The housing of claim 12, further comprising: an O-ring; said rear panel including a circular groove about its perimeter for receiving said 0ring; and mounting means for mounting said rear panel to said top, bottom, right and left panels compressing said O-ring to form an air tight seal. 15. The housing of claim 1, wherein said box comprises a polycarbonate material. 16. The housing of claim 1, further comprising: a memory device mounted to said box for storing information of said substrates within said box. 17. The housing of claim 16, wherein said information stored in said memory device includes identification and history of said substrates. 18. A housing for containing a plurality of substrates, comprising: a container having an interior space and an opening; a plurality of substrate supports mounted within said container for receiving and supporting said plurality of substrates within said interior space in spaced relationship relative to each other; and a door assembly pivotally mounted to said container for covering said opening when said door assembly is in a closed position. 19. The housing of claim 18, wherein said plurality of substrates are flat panel displays. 20. The housing of claim 18, wherein said plurality of substrates are semiconductor wafers. 21. The housing of claim 18, wherein each one of said plurality of substrate supports comprises a plurality of spaced shelves. 22. The housing of claim 18, wherein: each of said plurality of substrates includes an edge; and wherein each of said plurality of substrate supports contacts a corresponding one of said plurality of substrates on said edge. 23. The housing of claim 18, wherein said door assembly is removable to permit access to said interior space and said substrates. 24. The housing of claim 18, wherein said door assembly comprises: a door; and a latch assembly for latching said door in said closed position. 25. The housing of claim 24, wherein said door and said container maintain said plurality of substrates in a substantially clean environment when said door is in said closed position. 26. The housing of claim 25, further comprising: a seal for sealing said opening of said container with said door for separating said interior space from ambient air when said door is in said closed position. 27. The housing of claim 26, wherein said seal comprises: a perimeter edge; and a compliant material interfacing said perimeter edge when said door is in said closed position. 28. The housing of claim 27, wherein said perimeter edge is flanged. 29. The housing of claim 27, wherein said perimeter edge is located along a perimeter of said opening of said container, and wherein said compliant material is located along a perimeter of said door. 30. The housing of claim 18, further comprising: a memory device mounted to said container for storing information of said plurality of substrates within said container. 31. An integrated wafer carrier for a plurality of wafers, comprising: a container having an interior space and an opening; a plurality of wafer supports mounted within said container for slidably receiving and supporting said plurality of wafers within said interior space in spaced relationship relative to each other; a door removably attached to said container for covering said opening when said door is in a closed position; and a seal for sealing said opening of said container with said door for separating said interior space from ambient air when said door is in said closed position. 32. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 31, wherein said plurality of wafers are semiconductor wafers. 33. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 31, wherein said plurality of wafers are flat panel displays. 34. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 31, wherein each of said plurality of wafer supports includes a spaced shelf. 35. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 31, wherein said door further comprises: a latch assembly for latching said door to said container. 36. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 35, wherein said door and said container maintain said plurality of wafers in a substantially clean environment when said door is in said closed position. 37. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 36, wherein said seal comprises: a perimeter edge; and a compliant material interfacing said perimeter edge when said door is in said closed position. 38. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 37, wherein said perimeter edge is flanged. 39. The integrated wafer carrier of claim 37, wherein said perimeter edge is located along a perimeter of said opening of said container, and wherein said compliant material is located along a perimeter of said door. 