An apparatus is provided for coating a surface of a plate-like material, or substrate, specifically a semiconductor wafer, with a coating material. The apparatus includes a plurality of self-controlled removable modules including a coating assembly, at least one thermal conditioning module, and a substrate handling device, and a host controller. The coating assembly is used to dispense coating material from a coating source onto the surface of the substrate material positioned in the coating assembly. The material handling device is positioned to access and move substrates between the coating assembly, the at least one thermal conditioning module and other modules included in the apparatus. The host controller provides substrate thermal conditioning, coating and handling information to the corresponding modules and tracks the location of each substrate in the apparatus. In a preferred embodiment, each module has an individual controller that receives and executes treatment and handling instructions from the host controller. Preferably, the coating assembly and the at least one thermal conditioning module are arranged in opposing assemblies that define a middle portion therebetween in which the handling device is positioned. The opposing assemblies having outwardly opposing front and back faces which allows full access to the modules, from one or the other faces, and facilitates side-by-side arrangement of the apparatuses in a clean room.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for coating a substrate surface with process liquid comprising: a plurality of self-controlled modules comprising at least one thermal conditioning module and a substrate coating assembly; and, a substrate handling device positioned to access said coating assembly and said at least one thermal conditioning module; and, a host controller connected to said plurality of self-controlled modules, wherein each of said plurality of self-controlled modules is removable without disabling said other self-controlled modules or said host controller. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said handling device comprises: a horizontally stationary robot having at least one rotatable reciprocating end effector to access said at least one thermal conditioning module and said coating assembly; and, a robot controller connected between said robot and said host controller. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said plurality of removable modules further comprises a substrate aligner. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said substrate aligner includes an alignment controller connected to said host controller. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coating assembly comprises: a process bowl having a bottom and an interior, and said bottom contains an opening; a rotatable spindle movable in said opening in said bottom; a chuck disposed in said interior of said bowl and attached to said spindle, wherein said handling device can access said chuck; a dispense arm positionable to dispense process liquid from a source toward said chuck; and, a spin station controller connected between said host controller and said chuck and said dispense arm. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said coating assembly further comprises a spindle controller connected between said spindle and said spin station controller. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said coating assembly further comprises: an actuator attached to move said spindle between a process position and a loading position; and, an actuator controller connected between said actuator and said spin station controller. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said actuator controller is further connected to said dispense arm. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a recipe server containing substrate thermal conditioning, coating and handling information and accessible by said host controller. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said substrate information is accessed using a code provided as input to said host controller. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a bar code scanner connected to said host controller. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a support equipment server connected between said host controller and said coating assembly; and, an environmental control system connected between said host controller and said coating assembly. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a substrate loading platform included in one of said opposing assemblies and accessible by said handling device. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein; said coating assembly and said substrate loading platform are arranged in a first assembly; and, said at least one thermal conditioning module is arranged in a second assembly opposing said first assembly. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein: said opposing assemblies have outwardly opposing faces; and, said at least one thermal conditioning module and said coating assembly are removable from said outwardly opposing face of said second and first assemblies, respectively. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said host controller is connected provide substrate thermal conditioning coating, and handling instructions to, and receive signals indicating the completion of said instructions from; said corresponding plurality of self-controlled modules. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of self-controlled modules is operative as a stand alone module. 18. An apparatus for coating a substrate surface with process liquid comprising: a plurality of self-controlled modules comprising a substrate coating assembly arranged in a first assembly, a plurality of thermal conditioning modules arranged in a second assembly that generally opposes said first assembly, said first and second assemblies having outwardly opposing faces, at least one substrate aligner disposed in said second assembly, wherein said coating assembly, and said thermal conditioning modules and said substrate aligner are removable through said outwardly opposing face of said first and second assemblies, respectively, and a horizontally stationary substrate handling device positioned to access said self-controlled modules in said first and second assemblies and a substrate loading platform disposed in said first assembly; and, a host controller connected to said plurality of self-controlled modules, wherein each of said plurality of self-controlled modules is removable without disabling said other self-controlled modules or said host controller. 