An image generation system having a processing element array comprised of a plurality of processing elements interconnected so that processing elements may communicate with other processing elements in the processing element array. A linear expression evaluator provides coefficients of linear expressions which define object primitives to the processing element array and a processing element array controller provides instruction and control data. A central control unit controls the flow of data to and from the processing element array and controls the presentation of linear expression coefficients to the linear expression evaluator. Methods, apparatus and program products include assigning home pixel addresses corresponding to pixels of the screen regions to the plurality of processing elements. A database of geometric primitives is traversed and each primitive is assigned processing elements. The processing elements generate and store linear coefficients Geometric primitives which touch each screen region are provided to the processing elements which determine whether the home pixels of the processing element are within the geometric primitive and calculate the subpixel coverage of the home pixels. Contributions are scattered throughout the processing elements for processing and returned to the home pixels to determine a final pixel value.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An image generation system comprising: a processing element array comprised of a plurality of processing elements, wherein the processing elements are interconnected such that processing elements in said processing element array communicate with other processing elements in said processing element array wherein said processing element array is divided into a plurality of panels with each of said processing elements in a panel being connected to one of a plurality of panel communications buses which are common to processing elements of a panel and wherein each processing element comprises: an arithmetic logic unit; memory operably associated with said arithmetic logic unit; and a local bus interface for communicating with other processing elements in said processing element array over said common panel communications bus; wherein said image generation system further comprises: global bus interconnection means operably associated with said plurality of panel communications buses for communicating information on one panel communications bus to the other panel communication buses of said plurality of panel communication buses and wherein said global bus interconnection means further comprises validity flag means for indicating which bytes of the global bus interconnection means contain valid data from one of said panel communications buses; a linear expression evaluator for providing coefficients of linear expressions which define object primitives to the processing element array; a processing element array controller operably associated with said processing element array for providing instruction and control data to processing elements of said processing element array; a central control unit operably associated with said processing element array, said linear expression evaluator and said processing element array control means for controlling the flow of data to and from said processing element array and controlling the presentation of linear expression coefficients to said linear expression evaluator. 2. An image generation system according to claim 1 wherein said global bus interconnection means further comprises means for communicating information to all of said processing elements in said processing element array. 3. An image generation system according to claim 2 wherein said panel communication buses are operably associated with said global bus interconnection means such that information communicated on all of said panel communication buses is combined to be communicated on said global bus interconnection means and information communicated on said global bus interconnection means is redriven to each of said plurality of panel communications buses. 4. An image generation system comprising: a processing element array comprised of a plurality of processing elements, wherein the processing elements are interconnected such that processing elements in said processing element array communicate with other processing elements in said processing element array wherein said processing element array is divided into a plurality of panels with each of said processing elements in a panel being connected to one of a plurality of panel communications buses which are common to processing elements of a panel and wherein each processing element comprises: an arithmetic logic unit; memory operably associated with said arithmetic logic unit; and a local bus interface for communicating with other processing elements in said processing element array over said common panel communications bus; wherein said image generation system further comprises: global bus interconnection means operably associated with said plurality of panel communications buses for communicating information on one panel communications bus to the other panel communication buses of said plurality of panel communication buses; a linear expression evaluator for providing coefficients of linear expressions which define object primitives to the processing element array; a processing element array controller operably associated with said processing element array for providing instruction and control data to processing elements of said processing element array; a central control unit operably associated with said processing element array, said linear expression evaluator and said processing element array control means for controlling the flow of data to and from said processing element array and controlling the presentation of linear expression coefficients to said linear expression evaluator; and wherein said processing element array controller further comprises: a microcode cache for storing microcode instructions; a sort controller for receiving sort components produced by the processing elements and generating requests based on said sort components; a micro-sequencer operably associated with said microcode cache for providing microcode instructions to said central control unit and said processing element array. 5. An image generation system according to claim 4, said image generation system further comprising a host interface adapter operably associated with said central control unit for communicating with a host processor. 6. An image generation system according to claim 5 further comprising a video memory interface operably associated with said central control means for providing access to a frame buffer memory by said image generation system. 7. An image generation system according to claim 6 further comprising video generation means operably associated with said central control unit and said video memory interface for generating an analog video signal corresponding to information provided by said central control unit and said video memory interface. 8. An image generation system according to claim 7 further comprising: a memory request controller for controlling requests to said video memory interface; and wherein said central control unit further comprises: a global bus controller for controlling communications on said global communications bus; a decoder for decoding entropy encoded information; a data bus controller for buffering and controlling the flow of data between said host interface adapter and said global bus controller, said decoder, said linear expression evaluator, and said memory request controller; a bus link for controlling the flow of data between said video memory interface and said host interface adapter; and a management central processing unit operably associated with said linear expression evaluator, said global bus controller, said decoder, said data bus controller, said micro sequencer and said memory request controller for controlling said linear expression evaluator, said global bus controller, said decoder, said data bus controller and said memory request controller based on a predefined set of program instructions. 9. A method of generating a screen image comprised of a plurality of screen regions, each region having a plurality of pixels, by utilizing a plurality of parallel processing elements, the method comprising the steps of: assigning home pixel addresses corresponding to pixels of said screen regions to said plurality of processing elements; traversing a database of geometric primitives and assigning each primitive to a respective specified subset of processing elements of said plurality of processing elements for each of said geometric primitives; wherein said processing elements carry out the following steps for each of said geometric primitives: generating linear coefficients for said assigned primitives; and then storing said linear coefficients associated with said assigned geometric primitives; determining which geometric primitives touch each of said screen regions based on said stored linear coefficients; then providing to said plurality of processing elements the geometric primitives which touch a screen region wherein said processing elements then carry out the following steps: determining whether the home pixels of the processing element are within the geometric primitive provided to the processing element such that the geometric primitive will specify a contribution for a home pixel of the processing element; and then discarding contributions which are obscured by nearer primitives; scattering the contributions of geometric primitives throughout the plurality of processing elements such that each processing element is assigned one contribution value; evaluating the contribution values for the contributions assigned to each processing element; then returning the contribution values to the processing element assigned to the home pixel corresponding to the contribution; and then combining the returned contribution values to provide a final pixel value. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said processing elements further carry out the following step for each geometric primitive: determining lighting for the geometric primitive. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said evaluating step further comprises the step of determining at least one of the contribution characteristics selected from the group consisting of lighting, fog and smooth shading. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein said evaluating step further comprises the step of determining a texture value for each contribution. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said evaluating step further comprises the steps of: determining a texture value for each contribution; and combining the determined texture value for each contribution with the determined contribution characteristics. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said evaluating step further comprises the step of determining if transparencies modify the contribution coverage. 15. An image generation system for generating a screen image comprised of a plurality of screen regions, each region having a plurality of pixels, the image generation system comprising: a plurality of parallel processing elements; means for assigning home pixel addresses corresponding to pixels of said screen regions to said plurality of processing elements; means for traversing a database of geometric primitives and assigning each primitive to a respective specified subset of processing elements of said plurality of processing elements for each of said geometric primitives; means for determining which geometric primitives touch each of said screen regions based on said stored linear coefficients; means for providing to said plurality of processing elements the geometric primitives which touch a screen region; means for discarding contributions which are obscured by nearer primitives; means for scattering contributions of geometric primitives throughout said plurality of processing elements such that each processing element is assigned one contribution value; means for evaluating the contribution values for contributions assigned to each processing element; means for returning contribution values determined by a processing element to the processing element assigned to the home pixel corresponding to the contribution; means for combining the returned contribution values to provide a final pixel value; and wherein each of said processing elements comprise: means for generating linear coefficients for said assigned primitives; means for storing said linear coefficients associated with said assigned geometric primitives; and means for determining whether the home pixels of the processing element are within a geometric primitive provided to the processing element such that the geometric primitive will specify a contribution for a home pixel of the processing element. 16. The image generation system of claim 15 wherein said processing elements further comprise: means for determining lighting for geometric primitives provided to the processing element. 17. The image generation system of claim 15 further comprising means for determining at least one of the contribution characteristics selected from the group consisting of lighting, fog and smooth shading. 18. The image generation system of claim 15 further comprising means for determining a texture value for each contribution. 19. The image generation system of claim 17 further comprising: means for determining a texture value for each contribution; and means for combining the determined texture value for each contribution with the determined contribution characteristics. 20. The image generation system of claim 19 further comprising means for determining if transparencies modify the contribution coverage. 21. A computer program product for generating a screen image comprised of a plurality of screen regions, each region having a plurality of pixels, utilizing a plurality of parallel processing elements, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code means embodied in said medium, said computer-readable program code means comprising: computer-readable program code means for assigning home pixel addresses corresponding to pixels of said screen regions to said plurality of processing elements; computer-readable program code means for traversing a database of geometric primitives and assigning each primitive to a respective specified subset of processing elements of said plurality of processing elements for each of said geometric primitives; computer-readable program code means for determining which geometric primitives touch each of said screen regions; computer-readable program code means for providing to said plurality of processing elements the geometric primitives which touch a screen region; computer-readable program code means for discarding contributions which are obscured by nearer primitives; computer-readable program code means for scattering contributions of geometric primitives throughout said plurality of processing elements such that each processing element is assigned one contribution value; computer-readable program code means for evaluating the contribution values for contributions assigned to each processing element; computer-readable program code means for returning contribution values determined by a processing element to the processing element assigned to the home pixel corresponding to the contribution; computer-readable program code means for combining the returned contribution values to provide a final pixel value; computer-readable program code means for generating linear coefficients for said assigned primitives; computer-readable program code means for storing said linear coefficients associated with said assigned geometric primitives; and computer-readable program code means for determining whether the home pixels of the processing element are within a geometric primitive provided to the processing element such that the geometric primitive will specify a contribution for a home pixel of the processing element. 22. The computer program product of claim 21 wherein said processing elements further comprise: computer-readable program code means for determining lighting for geometric primitives provided to the processing element. 23. The computer program product of claim 21 further comprising computer-readable program code means for determining at least one of the contribution characteristics selected from the group consisting of lighting, fog and smooth shading. 24. The computer program product of claim 21 further comprising computer-readable program code means for determining a texture value for each contribution. 25. The computer program product of claim 23 further comprising: computer-readable program code means for determining a texture value for each contribution; and computer-readable program code means for combining the determined texture value for each contribution with the determined contribution characteristics. 26. The computer program product of claim 25 further comprising computer-readable program code means for determining if transparencies modify the contribution coverage. 