Target based machine vision useful for alignment of sensors and other objects affixed to structures, robots and the like. While addressed particularly to alignment of machine vision systems relative to structures, the techniques disclosed are useful with a multitude of different sensors and objects.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for determining the position of at least one member comprising: a computer containing information related to a math data base of an object to be worked or positioned by the member; a sensor which senses a separate position of the member; a sensor positioning means positionable in multiple degrees of freedom for positioning said sensor with respect to the data base of the object and separate from said member such that the separate position of the member is sensed by the sensor; and an analysis means for determining, from the position of said sensor with respect to the data base and from the sensed position of the member by said sensor, a position of the member with respect to the data base. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and further including a moving means for moving the member to different positions. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the member is a portion of a robot. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the member is a joining device. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the member is a locating device for the object in a tool. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said sensor is an electro-optical device. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and further including an aligning means for aligning said positioning means with a base of a tool in which the object is to be positioned. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 and further including a locating means for locating said positioning means with respect to the object when the object is in position to be worked by the member. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the data base is a CAD data base. 10. A method for determining the position of at least one member comprising the steps of: programming a computer with a math data base of an object to be worked or positioned by the member; positioning a sensor located remote from the member in multiple degrees of freedom with respect to the data base of the object; sensing a separate position of the member with the sensor; and determining, from the position of the sensor with respect to the data base and from the sensed separate position of the member by the sensor, a position of the member with respect to the data base. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10 and further including the step of repositioning the member to a different position with respect to the data base. 12. A method as claimed in claim 11 and further including the step of sensing a new position of the member with the sensor; and determining, from the position of the sensor with respect to the data base and from the new sensed position of the member by the sensor, a new position of the member with respect to the data base. 13. A method as claimed in claim 11 and further including the step of aligning the position of the sensor with a base of a tool in which the object is to be positioned. 14. A method as claimed in claim 11 and further including the step of locating the sensor with respect to the object when the object is in position to be worked by the member. 15. A method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the data base is a CAD data base. 