A transformer assembly, particularly for data and audio signals, has first and second bobbins which are telescoped within one another. An assembly cap is fitted around the bobbins and includes flanges for locating a core. The bobbins and the cap are designed such that creepage and clearance requirements are met. The core is preformed or comprises laminations formed as E's and I's, which are then fitted through the assembly cap and the bobbins. The cap provides a receptacle for the core, and retains the laminations in position. To secure the laminations in position, an assembly cup is mounted around the outside of the laminations. The assembly cup can include springs or the like, to maintain the laminations in position and allow for expansion and contraction. The springs can additionally mechanically secure the transformer in position. The bobbins, cap, core and cup can be encapsulated together.
Claims I claim: 1. A transformer assembly comprising: a first bobbin having a first main bobbin body comprising a first main bobbin portion and first and second end flanges at either end of thereof, and a coil wound on the first main bobbin portion, the first main bobbin body defining a first bore for laminations; a second bobbin having a second main bobbin body comprising a second main bobbin portion and first and second end flanges at either end thereof and having generally similar external dimensions, and a coil wound on the second main bobbin portion, the second main bobbin body defining a second bore, the second bobbin being larger than the first bobbin, the second end flange of the first bobbin being dimensioned to fit within the second bore, and the bobbins being telescoped within one another with the second bore being dimensioned to receive the first main bobbin body; and an assembly cap comprising side and end walls defining a central portion and a substantially rectangular aperture extending through the central portion, in which the first and second bobbins are mounted, with at least one of said first and second bobbin end flanges abutting each of the respective end walls and the end walls including openings aligned with the first bore of the first bobbin for receiving laminations, wherein the assembly cap includes top and bottom flanges provided above and below the openings in the central portion for locating laminations and for providing desired creepage characteristics, and wherein the end walls and the end flanges are all substantially perpendicular to axes of the first and second bores, to permit sliding engagement of the end flanges by the assembly cap and the end flanges abutting the end walls forming a seal sufficient to prevent passage of a liquid resin. 2. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one edge of each of the first end flanges is bevelled, the bevelled edges being on the same side of the assembly, to facilitate insertion of the first and second bobbins into the rectangular aperture. 3. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the first bobbin body adjacent the second flange thereof and the second bobbin body adjacent the first flange thereof has protrusion means for forming an interference fit between the first and second bobbin bodies. 4. A transformer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cap is generally rectilinear and the top and bottom flanges include bevelled edges facing one another for facilitating insertion of laminations. 5. A transformer as claimed in claim 4, wherein the top flange includes set back portions on the bottom surface thereof, aligned with the openings of the central portion and a top surface of the bottom flange includes bevelled edge surfaces. 6. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the central portion includes a downwardly extending lip extending below the bottom flange. 7. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 6, wherein each of the first and second bobbins includes a mounting flange extending generally perpendicularly to the respective first end flange and a plurality of connecting pins mounted in the respective mounting flange and connected to the coil thereof, and wherein the lip is dimensioned to enclose the mounting flanges. 8. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 7, which includes a plurality of laminations mounted between the top and bottom flanges of the cap. 9. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 8, wherein the cap is generally rectangular in plan and the bores of the first and second bobbins are generally rectangular, and wherein the laminations comprise a first group of laminations having a generally E-shape, extending through the bore of the first bobbin and along either side thereof and a second group of laminations having one of a generally I-shape and a E-shape located abutting ends of the first groups of laminations, and wherein a gap sheet means is provided between the first and second groups of laminations, to isolate them from one another. 10. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 8, which includes an assembly cup means enclosing the first and second bobbins, the assembly cap and the laminations, and retaining the laminations in position. 11. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the assembly cup means is secured to the assembly cap and includes spring biasing means biasing the laminations into abutment with one another. 12. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 11, wherein the assembly cup includes a coupling formation adapted to receive a central portion of the assembly cap, to locate the assembly cap in the assembly cup, to close off the aperture in the central portion of the assembly cap, and wherein the central aperture of the assembly cap is filled with resin, to encase at least the coil of the second bobbin and the upper ends of the connecting pins. 13. A transformer as claimed in claim 12, wherein the connecting pins extend through the mounting flanges and comprise lower ends adapted for connection to a printed circuit board and upper ends connected to ends of the respective coil. 14. A transformer as claimed in claim 13, wherein each of the first end flanges includes a slit means, through which ends of the respective coil extend, while maintaining ends of the coil spaced inwardly from sides of the bobbin, and ends of each coil extend along the top of a respective mounting flange to the connecting pins. 15. A transformer as claimed in claim 1, 9, or 14 wherein the axial length of the first bobbin and the internal dimensions of the central section of the assembly cap are such as to provide an interference fit therebetween, to provide a seal between the first bobbin and the assembly cap to prevent resin leaking out from the rectangular aperture. 16. A transformer assembly comprising: a first bobbin having a first main bobbin body comprising a first main bobbin portion and first and second end flanges at either end of thereof, and a coil wound on the first main bobbin portion, the first main bobbin body defining a first bore for laminations; a second bobbin having a second main bobbin body comprising a second main bobbin portion and first and second end flanges at either end thereof and having generally similar external dimensions, and a coil wound on the second main bobbin portion, the second main bobbin body defining a second bore, the second bobbin being larger than the first bobbin, the second end flange of the first bobbin being dimensioned to fit within the second bore, and the bobbins being telescoped within one another with the second bore being dimensioned to receive the first main bobbin body; an assembly cap comprising side and end walls defining a central portion and a substantially rectangular aperture extending through the central portion, in which the first and second bobbins are mounted, at least two of said first and second bobbin end flanges abutting the end walls and the end walls including openings aligned with the first bore of the first bobbin; a plurality of laminations configured and mounted to extend through the bore of the first bobbin and to surround the assembly cap; and an assembly cup secured to the assembly cap and maintaining the laminations in position wherein the end walls and the end flanges are all substantially perpendicular to axes of the first and second bores, to permit sliding engagement of the end flanges by the assembly cap. 17. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 16, wherein the assembly cup comprises a base, side walls and end walls, with the side and end walls being spaced from the laminations, and including lamination location means biasing the laminations into abutment with one another and providing for thermal expansion and contraction of the laminations. 18. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 17, wherein the lamination location means comprises spring means provided on at least one of the side and end walls of the assembly cup. 19. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 18, wherein the assembly cup includes a coupling formation adapted to receive the central portion of the assembly cap, to locate the assembly cap in the assembly cup. 20. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 19, wherein the assembly cup is substantially continuous across the central portion so as to close off the rectangular aperture therein. 21. A transformer as claimed in claim 19, wherein the assembly cap is closed at the top thereof. 22. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 18, wherein the spring means comprises first and second springs mounted to either end wall of the cup. 23. A transformer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and second end flanges of the second bobbin and the first end flange of the first bobbin all having a generally similar heights and widths. 24. A transformer as claimed in claim 23, wherein the second end flange of the first bobbin has an extended axial length to provide a desired creepage characteristic. 25. A transformer assembly as claimed in claim 24, wherein the axial length of the second end flange of the first bobbin is approximately twice the thickness thereof. 26. A transformer as claimed in claim 1, 24, 9, or 14 wherein the first and second end flanges of the first bobbin abut the end walls and wherein the axial length of the first bobbin is greater than the axial spacing between the end walls, to form an interference fit, for forming a seal sufficient to prevent the passage of liquid resin. 27. A transformer as claimed in claim 16, 18 or 21, wherein the first and second end flanges of the first bobbin abut the end walls and wherein the axial length of the first bobbin is greater than the axial spacing between the end walls, to form an interference fit, for forming a seal sufficient to prevent the passage of liquid resin. 