A fingerpad force sensor system is disclosed which is useful for detecting process variations during manufacturing processes in which a plurality of force sensors are applied to the gripper of a robot in order to monitor shear forces applied to the workpiece held by the robot during, for example, sheet-metal bending manufacturing processes. Each sensor is encapsulated in rubber pads which are secured to the gripper of the robot such that they monitor the status of the workpiece during all phases of automated bending: material acquisition, material handling, machine loading and unloading.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A fingerpad force sensor system for detecting shear forces applied to a workpiece, said system comprising: a robot having a gripper for holding said workpiece; at least one fingerpad force sensor affixed to said gripper such that it is positioned between said gripper and said workpiece in order to experience a shear force experienced by said workpiece, each said at least one fingerpad force sensor including a two-dimensional position-sensitive detector, comprising a piece of deformable planar material and a light emitting source that is attached to said piece of deformable planar material, said light emitting source emitting a light that is detected by the position-sensitive detector when said shear force is experienced by said workpiece; and each said at least one fingerpad force sensor being constructed such that it produces at least two output signals representative of the magnitude and direction of said shear force. 2. The fingerpad force sensor system of claim 1, wherein four of said fingerpad force sensors are affixed on one side of said gripper, each approximately equidistant from a central point on said one side of said gripper. 3. A fingerpad force sensor system for detecting shear forces applied to a workpiece, said system comprising: a robot having a gripper for holding said workpiece; at least one fingerpad force sensor affixed to said gripper such that it is positioned between said gripper and said workpiece in order to experience a shear force experienced by said workpiece; and each said at least one fingerpad force sensor being constructed such that it produces at least two output signals representative of the magnitude and direction of said shear force, wherein each said at least one fingerpad force sensor comprises a piece of deformable planar material having a recess formed therein, a light source affixed in said recess in such a manner that light is emitted primarily in a direction towards an opening of said recess, and a position-sensitive detector positioned to receive said light emitted by said light source. 4. The fingerpad force sensor system of claim 3, further including a base plate in which said position-sensitive detector is recessed and to which said piece of deformable planar material is affixed. 5. The fingerpad force sensor system of claim 4, wherein said piece of deformable planar material is affixed over said position-sensitive detector such that said at least two output signals of said position-sensitive detector vary when said shear force is applied to said piece of deformable planar material. 6. A method for sensing the application of a shear force to a workpiece held by a gripper of a robot, said robot having at least one fingerpad sensor affixed to said gripper such that said fingerpad force sensor is positioned between said gripper and said workpiece in order to experience a shear force experienced by said workpiece, said method comprising: exerting a shear force on said workpiece held by said gripper; and sensing deformation of said fingerpad force sensor in response to said shear force experienced by said workpiece by providing a deformable planar material carrying a light emitting source which is positioned to emit light to be received by a fixed position-sensitive detector which generates at least one output signal representative of a location on a surface of said fixed position-sensitive detector receiving said emitted light. 7. A force sensor for measuring shear forces applied to a sheet of planar material, said force sensor comprising; a piece of deformable planar material; a recess formed in said piece of deformable planar material; a light source mounted in said recess of said piece of deformable material; and a position-sensitive detector mounted adjacent to said recess such that light emitted by said light source impinges on said photo-sensitive detector, whereby shear forces applied to said sheet of planar material cause deformation of said piece of deformable planar material, thus moving an impingement location of light on said position-sensitive detector. 8. The force sensor of claim 7, wherein said light source is an infrared light emitting diode. 9. The force sensor of claim 7, wherein said piece of deformable planar material is formed from a material having a hardness of Shore A 45. 10. The force sensor of claim 7, further including a base plate in which said position-sensitive detector is recessed and to which said piece of deformable planar material is affixed. 11. The force sensor of claim 10, wherein said piece of deformable planar material is affixed over said position-sensitive detector such that an output signal of said position-sensitive detector varies when said shear force is applied to said piece of deformable planar material. 12. The force sensor of claim 11, further including processing circuitry connected to receive said output signals from said position-sensitive detector and to generate signals representative of the magnitude and direction of force and the occurrence of an impact experienced by said force sensor. 13. The force sensor of claim 12, wherein said processing circuitry comprises: a plurality of current-to-voltage converters for converting said output signals from said force sensor to output voltages; a difference amplifier for receiving said output voltages and producing a difference signal therefrom; a computer controlled offset null circuit for receiving said difference signal and for producing a DC signal representative of said shear force experienced by said force sensor; and a filtering circuit for receiving said difference signal and for filtering out a DC component such that an AC signal representative of an impact experienced by said force sensor is produced. 14. The force sensor of claim 7, wherein said force sensor includes two-dimensional position-sensitive detectors. 15. A fingerpad force sensor system for detecting shear forces applied to a workpiece, said system comprising: a robot having a gripper for holding said workpiece; at least one fingerpad force sensor affixed to said gripper such that it is positioned between said gripper and said workpiece in order to experience a shear force experienced by said workpiece, each said at least one fingerpad force sensor including a two-dimensional position-sensitive detector and a light emitting source that emits a light that is detected by the position-sensitive detector when said shear force is experienced by said workpiece; and each said at least one fingerpad force sensor being constructed such that it produces at least two output signals representative of the magnitude and direction of said shear force, wherein each of said at least one fingerpad force sensor further comprises: a first piece of planar material having a first surface for contacting said workpiece and a second surface; a second piece of planar material having a first portion of dielectric material and a second portion of electrically conductive material, said second piece of planar material being affixed to said second surface of said first piece of planar material by affixing said first portion of dielectric material to said first surface of said first piece of planar material, said light emitting source being affixed to said electrically conductive first portion of said second piece of planar material; and a third piece of deformable planar material having an opening therein for allowing light emitted by said light emitting source to pass therethrough and to be detected by said position-sensitive detector, said third piece of deformable planar material being affixed to said first portion of said second piece of planar material. 16. The force sensor of claim 15, wherein said light emitting source is an infrared light emitting diode. 17. A fingerpad force sensor system for detecting shear forces applied to a workpiece, said system comprising: a robot having a gripper for holding said workpiece; at least one fingerpad force sensor affixed to said gripper such that it is positioned between said gripper and said workpiece in order to experience a shear force experienced by said workpiece, each said at least one fingerpad force sensor including a two-dimensional position-sensitive detector and a light emitting source that emits a light that is detected by the position-sensitive detector when said shear force is experienced by said workpiece, and each said at least one fingerpad force sensor being constructed such that it produces at least two output signals representative of the magnitude and direction of said shear force; processing circuitry connected to receive said at least two output signals from said fingerpad force sensor and to generate signals representative of the magnitude and direction of force and the occurrence of an impact experienced by said fingerpad force sensor; and said processing circuitry comprising a plurality of current-to-voltage converters that convert said at least two output signals from said fingerpad force sensor to output voltages, a difference amplifier that receives said output voltages and produces a difference signal therefrom, a computer controlled offset null circuit that receives said difference signal and produces a DC signal representative of the magnitude and direction of said shear force experienced by said fingerpad force sensor, and a filtering circuit that receives said difference signal and filters out a DC component such that an AC signal representative of an impact experienced by said fingerpad force sensor is produced. 