An articulating mechanism for use in a single- or multiple-fluid-path painting robot is presented. The articulation design is particularly suitable as a wrist-joint and is free from the problems of dead space and single-fluid-path limitations found in conventional wrist-joint designs. The mechanism is based on coupling two cylindrical casings coaxially so that arm casing, wrist casing and the flange ends are coaxially joint about a shaft axis. The end sections of each components are sealed while leaving a fluid space of a given spacing between the outer and inner casings. The casings provide a fluid passage space extending in the direction of the casings and is provided with fluid delivery holes for the delivery of paint and other fluid medium. The designs include a blocking member so that cleaning of the robotic device, and quick maintenance or color changes can be carried out during production operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulating mechanism for providing a wrist-joint action in a robotic device comprising at least three cylindrical casing members rotatably coupled in series about each shaft axis of said casing members so that an end section of one casing member is overlapped coaxially within an end section of another casing member, wherein said end sections are overlapped so as to form a closed-end fluid passage space of a given separation distance, and each of said cylindrical casing, members is provided with a fluid communication hole in a wall section so that one end of said fluid communication hole communicates with said fluid passage space, and another end of said fluid communication hole communicates with a fluid path for delivery of a fluid medium. 2. An articulating mechanism for providing a wrist-joint action in a robotic device comprising at least three cylindrical casing members rotatably coupled in series about each shaft axis of said casing members so that an end section of one casing member is overlapped coaxially within an end section of another casing member, wherein said end sections are overlapped so as to form a closed-end fluid passage space of a given separation distance, and each of said cylindrical casing members is provided with a fluid communication hole in a wall section so that said fluid communication hole communicates with adjacent fluid passage spaces for delivery of a fluid medium. 3. An articulating mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of said one end section or said another end section is provided with a blocking member protruding into said fluid passage space so as to block said fluid medium from flowing in a circumferential direction of said fluid passage space. 4. An articulating mechanism as claimed in claim 2, wherein one of said one end section or said another end section is provided with a blocking member protruding into said fluid passage space so as to block said fluid medium from flowing in a circumferential direction of said fluid passage space. 5. An articulating mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein said blocking member is positioned adjacent to an opening section of one of said fluid communication holes disposed in overlapped end sections. 6. An articulating mechanism as claimed in claim 4, wherein said blocking member is positioned adjacent to an opening section of one of said fluid communication holes disposed in overlapped end sections. 7. An articulating mechanism as claimed in any of claims 3-6, wherein a tip dimension of said blocking member is not more than an opening dimension of said fluid communication hole. 8. An articulating mechanism as claimed in any of claims 1-6, wherein said fluid passage space is divided into a plurality of spaces along said shaft axis, and an independent fluid path is provided for each of said spaces to communicate with each of a plurality of fluid communication holes. 9. An articulating mechanism as claimed in claim 7, wherein said fluid passage space is divided into a plurality of spaces along said shaft axis, and an independent fluid path is provided for each of said spaces to communicate with each of a plurality of fluid communication holes. 10. An articulating mechanism as claimed in any of claims 1-6, wherein said end sections are freely detachable from said casing members. 11. An articulating mechanism as claimed in claim 7, wherein said end sections are freely detachable from said casing members. 