An apparatus for determining the relative position and pose of two objects. The apparatus includes a position sensing table and a tripod tactile sensing tool. The tactile sensing tool includes three digital indicator probes arranged in a tripod triangle. The position sensing table senses the position of each probe when in contact with the table. When all three probes are in contact with the table, the relative location of the table to the tool can be determined. The resulting information can be used for robotic part referencing and calibrations.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for measuring relative position between objects, comprising: (a) a position sensing table having a planar surface, said position sensing table including means for providing an output signal indicative of the position of a transducer contacting the surface of said position sensing table relative to a fixed position on said position sensing table; (b) a plurality of probes coupled to a support member in a triangular configuration, each probe having a displaceable tip, each said probe having means for providing an output signal indicative of the valve of displacement of said probe tip relative to a fixed position on said support member; (c) said probe tip having transducer means which uses said position sensing table for sensing when said probe tip contacts the surface of said position sensing table; and (d) processing means for determining the relative position of said support member and said position sensing table from position signals provided from said position sensing table and displacement signals provided from said probes. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising means for sequentially sensing the position of said probe tips by said position sensing table. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising means for sequentially sensing the displacement of said probe tips. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said processing means comprises a programmed data processor. 5. A tripod tactile sensing system for robot calibration and referencing, comprising: (a) a planar position sensing table, said position sensing table including means for providing an output signal indicative of the position of a transducer contacting said position sensing table relative to a fixed position on said position sensing table; (b) a tripod tactile sensing tool, said sensing tool having a plurality of displaceable probe tips, said sensing tool having means for providing an output signal indicative of the value of displacement of each probe tip relative to a fixed position on said sensing tool; (c) each said probe tip having transducer means which uses said position sensing table for sensing when said probe tip contacts said position sensing table; and (d) processing means for determining the relative position of said tactile sensing tool and said position sensing table from position signals provided from said position sensing table and displacement signals provided from said tactile sensing tool. 6. A tripod tactile sensing system as recited in claim 5, wherein said processing means includes means for sequentially sensing the position of said probe tips by said position sensing table. 7. A tripod tactile sensing system as recited in claim 5, wherein said processing means includes means for sequentially sensing the displacement of said probe tips. 8. A tripod tactile sensing system as recited in claim 5, wherein said processing means comprises a programmed data processor. 9. An apparatus for determining the relative position between moveable objects, comprising: (a) a planar digitizing table, said digitizing table including means for providing an output signal indicative of the position of a transducer contacting said digitizing table relative to fixed coordinates on said position sensing table; (b) a tactile sensing tool having three probes arranged in a triangular configuration, each probe having a displaceable tip, each said probe having means for providing an output signal indicative of the value of displacement of said probe tip relative to fixed coordinates on said sensing tool; (c) each said probe tip having transducer means which uses said position sensing table for sensing when said probe tip contacts the surface of said digitizing table; and (d) processing means for determining the relative position of said tactile sensing tool and said digitizing table from position signals provided from said digitizing table and displacement signals provided from said tactile sensing tool. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein said processing means includes means for sequentially sensing the position of said probe tips by said position sensing table. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said processing means includes means for sequentially sensing the displacement of said probe tips. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 11, wherein said processing means comprises a programmed data processor. 