Provided is a process for removing organic materials from semiconductor wafers and a process for chemical solvent drying of wafers. In the drying process, a wafer submerged in a bath having a lower aqueous layer and an upper organic layer is lifted from the lower aqueous layer up through the upper organic layer and removed from the bath. An apparatus for completing this process is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for treating and drying the surfaces of semiconductor wafers, comprising; (a) a tank for supporting said wafers in contact with an aqueous rinsing fluid, (b) means for introducing a liquid organic solvent layer into said tank such that it forms an upper liquid organic solvent layer, and; (c) means for lifting said wafers up from said aqueous rinsing fluid through said upper liquid organic solvent layer whereby said aqueous rinsing fluid is driven off of the surface of the wafer. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: means connected to the tank for providing fluid into the tank; means connected to the tank for injecting gas into the tank; and means for diffusing the gas into the tank such that the gas is absorbed into the fluid and contacts the surface of each wafer disposed in the tank, said means for diffusing comprising a composite element having a permeable member and a nonpermeable member, said permeable member having a top portion and a bottom portion, means defining an open space in a center portion of the permeable member, and means defining a trench positioned on the top portion of the permeable member between an outer periphery of the permeable member and the means defining an open space, said impermeable member having a means defining an open space in a center portion of the impermeable member which corresponds to the means defining an open space in a center portion of the permeable member, the permeable member and the impermeable member being joined such that the trench opens at the top portion of the permeable member and is covered by the impermeable member, and the composite element being positioned with the bottom portion of the permeable member connected to the bottom of the tank. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein both the permeable member and the impermeable member comprise a mixture of polytetrafluoroethylene and perfluoroalkoxylvinylether. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said tank comprises a first side and a second side, the first side of the tank having a vertical portion at a top portion of the tank and an inwardly tapered portion at a bottom portion of the tank, the tapered portion being longer than the vertical portion, and a second side of the tank having a vertical portion at a top portion of the tank and an inwardly tapered portion at a bottom portion of the tank, the tapered portion being shorter than the vertical portion. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a megasonic transducer located on the inwardly tapered portion of the first side of the tank. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising an ultraviolet light source located inside the tank above the means for diffusing the gas. 7. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the means for injecting gas is disposed below the means for diffusing the gas such that the gas is injected upwardly into the means for diffusing. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the means for providing fluid into the tank provides the fluid flow in a first direction and the means for injecting gas into the tank provides the gas in a second direction, countercurrent to the fluid flow. 9. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the means for injecting gas into the tank provides a gas either individually or in combination with one or more different gases. 10. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising a drain means. 11. The apparatus or claim 2, further comprising a lid for covering said tank. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, said lid being equipped with an IR light. 