Operator-related contamination in a semiconductor manufacturing plant is reduced by eliminating operator presence in most of the processing areas of a semiconductor manufacturing plant. To facilitate the reduction of operator presence, the fabrication facility is divided into two physically separate areas. Operators are present in an inspection and testing area within the fabrication facility, and the processing equipment which is best used manually is located within this area. Processing equipment which does not require manual operation or monitoring and which performs particularly sensitive processing operations is located in one or more processing areas physically separated from the areas in which operators are present. Semiconductor wafer transport, processing and process monitoring within the processing areas is completely automated. Reduced volumes can be obtained for these processing chambers, allowing higher levels of cleanliness to be obtained in the sensitive processing areas. Preferably, semiconductor wafers undergoing processing are passed between the operator area and the processing areas through chambers which act as buffers between the relatively cleaner processing environment and the relatively more contaminated operator environment. The buffers may have dedicated air filtration and circulation or other means for limiting the passage of contaminants from the operator area to the processing areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manufacturing plant for semiconductor wafers in which potential human operator contamination is confined to areas with equipment requiring manual operation, the manufacturing plant comprising: a containment building; an enclosed operator chamber within the containment building having peripheral walls, a plurality of openings in the peripheral walls, and a means to maintain a clean environment in the operator chamber; a plurality of tunnels arranged about the operator chamber, wherein each of the tunnels communicates with the chamber through at least one of the openings; means for maintaining a clean environment in the tunnels, the environment in the tunnels being maintained cleaner than the environment in the operator chamber; processing equipment within or accessible from the tunnels; automated transfer means within the tunnels to move wafers from the openings to and from the processing equipment; measurement and testing equipment in the operator chamber; a material handling system within the operator chamber to accept from and deliver wafers to the automated transfer means through the openings, and also to accept from and deliver wafers to the measurement and testing equipment; and a computer system to control and coordinate the operation of the manufacturing equipment, the automated transfer means, and the automated material handling system. 2. The manufacturing plant of claim 1 wherein the semiconductor wafers are enclosed within cassettes for transport. 3. The manufacturing plant of claim 2 wherein the operator chamber includes a vehicle track adjacent the peripheral walls. 4. The manufacturing plant of claim 3 wherein the material handling system has at least one automated guided vehicle that moves on the vehicle track. 5. The manufacturing plant of claim 4 wherein the at least one automatic guided vehicle has a material handling robot adapted to transfer cassettes to and from the vehicle. 6. The manufacturing plant of claim 2, wherein the automatic transfer means includes storage buffers for storing cassettes, the storage buffers located within the tunnels adjacent the openings. 7. The manufacturing plant of claim 6 wherein each of the storage buffers are provided with a plurality of shelves adapted to temporarily store cassettes. 8. The manufacturing plant of claim 7, wherein each of the storage buffers are provided with a first rotary transfer robot that transfers cassettes from the automated transfer means to the storage buffer, and a second rotary transfer robot that transfers cassettes from the storage buffer to the automatic material handling system. 9. The manufacturing plant of claim 8 wherein each of the storage buffers include a stacker robot capable of moving cassettes within the storage buffer. 10. The manufacturing plant of claim 8 wherein the automated transfer means includes a linear track within at least one of the tunnels, a transport vehicle mounted for movement on the linear track, a series of linear motors on the linear track that interact with the transport vehicle to move the vehicle between the storage buffer and the manufacturing equipment in, or accessible from, the tunnel. 11. The manufacturing plant of claim 1 wherein the measurement and testing equipment is arranged in separate rows in the tunnel leaving a center aisle between the rows. 