A method for modifying an information storage library. The invention includes a method for testing a new library storage module (LSM) to be added or included in the library. The method uses a portable simulated Library Management Unit (LMU) to test the new LSM prior to its incorporation into the library. Prior testing reduces down time of an existing information storage library when a new LSM is added.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for modifying an information storage library including the step of constructing a second library storage module (LSM) in proximity to a first LSM, said first LSM connected to a host library management unit (LMU), said method comprising the steps of: connecting a simulated LMU to said second LSM; utilizing said simulated LMU to perform diagnostic testing on said second LSM wherein said diagnostic testing includes: measuring the motion functions of a robotics means in said second LSM; measuring the motion functions of a pass through port in said second LSM; measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation between said second LSM and said information storage library; measuring the alignment of storage cells in said second LSM with a robotics means in second LSM; and integrating said second LSM into said information storage library. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of measuring the motion functions of a robotics means in said LSM includes the step of calibrating said robotics means to a home position as a reference point. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing the operation of a cartridge access port in cooperation with said robotics means. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing an LSM access door interlock. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing communication between a tape transport and a library control unit. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing the alignment of storage cells in said LSM with said robotics means. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of integrating includes connecting said second LSM and the aforesaid first LSM to said pass through port. 8. A method for performing diagnostic testing on a second library storage module (LSM) to be added to an existing information storage library, said existing information storage library including at least a first LSM and a library management unit (LMU) to control the functions of said first LSM, said method including the step of constructing said second library storage module (LSM) in proximity to said first LSM, said method comprising the steps of: connecting a simulated LMU to said second LSM; instructing said simulated LMU to perform said diagnostic testing, said step of instructing further including the step of entering a set of instructions onto a microprocessor card in said simulated LMU; and integrating said second LSM into said existing information storage library. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein said diagnostic testing includes measuring the motion functions of a robotics means in said second LSM. 10. A method according to claim 8 wherein said diagnostic testing includes measuring the motion functions of a pass through port in said second LSM. 11. A method according to claim 8 wherein said diagnostic testing includes measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation between said second LSM and said existing information storage library. 12. A method according to claim 9 wherein said step of measuring the motion functions of a robotics means in said LSM includes the step of calibrating said robotics means to a home position as a reference point. 13. A method according to claim 10 wherein the aforesaid step of integrating includes connecting said second LSM and the aforesaid first LSM to said pass through port. 14. A method according to claim 8 wherein said diagnostic testing includes measuring the alignment of storage cells in said second LSM with a robotic means in second LSM. 15. A method according to claim 11 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing the operation of a cartridge access port in cooperation with said robotics means. 16. A method according to claim 11 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing an LSM access door interlock. 17. A method according to claim 11 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing communication between a tape transport and a library control unit. 18. A method for testing a library storage module (LSM) comprising the steps of: connecting a simulated LMU to said LSM; utilizing said simulated LMU to perform diagnostic testing on said LSM by entering a set of instructions onto a microprocessor card in said simulated LMU wherein said diagnostic testing includes: measuring the motion functions of a robotics means in said LSM; measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation between said LSM and said simulated LMU; and measuring the alignment of storage cells in said LSM with a robotics means in said LSM. 19. A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of measuring the motion functions of a robotics means in said LSM includes the step of calibrating said robotics means to a home position as a reference point. 20. A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing the operation of a cartridge access port in cooperation with said robotics means. 21. A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing an LSM access door interlock. 22. A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing communication between a tape transport and a library control unit. 23. A method according to claim 18 wherein said step of measuring the Local Area Network (LAN) communication and operation includes the step of testing the alignment of storage cells in said LSM with said robotics means. 