A data processing device includes a first memory for storing data, a second memory for storing instructions and circuitry connected to the first memory for electronically performing computation operations. Registers temporarily hold digital signals representative of first values on which computations are based and second values that are computed. Address decoding circuitry has an input connected to an address bus. The address decoding circuitry has outputs connected to the registers to decode addresses from the address bus and access the registers. A control circuit is connected to the second memory and responds to at least one of the instructions for sending an address via the address bus to the address decoding circuitry to transfer a value in a first one of the registers directly to a second one of the registers thereby bypassing the first memory during the transfer. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing device, comprising: a central processing unit (CPU) having memory mapped access to predetermined registers and capable of generating direct addresses; and, an address generator directly associated with said CPU including said predetermined registers and capable of operating in parallel with said CPU to generate indirect addresses without using said CPU and; wherein said CPU accesses registers that are in the address generator of the CPU without adding a register address field to an instructor. 2. The data processing device as in claim 1, wherein said direct addresses generated by said CPU include addresses for multi-dimensional matrix values. 3. The data processing device as in claim 1, wherein said CPU includes a CPU register bank; and wherein said registers of the address generator are included within said CPU register bank. 4. The data processing device of claim 1, wherein said address generator comprises; an auxiliary register arithmetic unit (ARAU). 5. The data processing device of claim 1, wherein said data processing device further comprises, a data memory address space; and wherein said registers of the address generator being part of said data memory address space. 6. The data processing device as in claim 5, wherein said registers are usable as inputs to and outputs from said CPU. 7. The data processing device as in claim 5, wherein said CPU further comprises input and output ports; and said input and output ports map into locations of said data memory address space enabling memory mapped operations to and from said CPU. 8. The data processing device as in claim 1, wherein said CPU includes circuitry for directly accessing said registers in parallel with the address generator. 9. The data processing device as in claim 8, wherein said circuitry for directly accessing said registers includes circuitry for addressing a multi-dimensional matrix. 10. The data processing device as in claim 8, further comprising multiplier circuitry for incrementing or decrementing an address multiplicatively. 11. The data processing device as in claim 10, wherein said multiplier circuitry includes a product register for storing a multiplicative of said address; said multiplicative being directly transferred to one of said registers of said address generator. 12. The data processing device as in claim 1, wherein said data processing device further includes temporary registers for holding multiplier inputs; dynamic shift counters for maintaining dynamic shift counts; and, dynamic bit mask devices for maintaining dynamic bit masks; and wherein said CPU directly accesses and changes contents of said temporary registers, dynamic shift counters, and dynamic bit mask devices. 13. A data processing device, including: a central processor; a data memory; a program bus; a data bus; and, address circuitry including memory mapped registers for generating direct data addresses from said data or program bus, for generating indirect data addresses using one or more of said registers, and for using immediate operands for addresses, and for requesting delivery of data in said data memory identified by said data addresses to said central processor; and wherein said central processor communicates with said data memory and address circuitry through said data bus and accesses registers associated with the address circuitry without adding a register address field to an instruction. 14. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said address circuitry, includes; a data memory page pointer; selector circuitry controlled by said central processor for selectively accessing either said program bus or data bus and filling said page pointer with a page address; and, a data memory word pointer filled with a word address from said program bus; and wherein said contents of said page pointer and word pointer are concatenated to create a data address; and said data address is used for accessing said data memory and for sending any contents of said data memory located at said data address to said data bus. 15. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said device further includes a data address bus, and wherein said address circuitry, includes: an address generator; and wherein said registers provide data addresses for accessing said data memory; wherein said data addresses are sent to said address circuitry; said address circuitry includes a register pointer for selecting one of said registers; and, register circuitry for sending a data address from said one or more registers to said data address bus in parallel with manipulating the contents of said one or more registers. 16. A data processing device as in claim 15, wherein a selected one or more of said registers comprise auxiliary registers; and wherein selected ones of said auxiliary registers store data addresses of instruction operands; said register pointer being loaded with a value corresponding to one of said auxiliary registers; said register pointer being loaded by either said data bus or said program bus; said address circuitry includes a register pointer multiplexer; said register pointer multiplexer passing a value to said register pointer from said data bus or said program bus; said register pointer multiplexer receiving an instruction from said central processor directing said register pointer multiplexer to pass a value from either said program bus or said data bus to said register pointer. 17. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said data processing device is fabricated on a single chip. 18. A data processing device as in claim 17, said data processing device including a program memory and circuitry for moving a block of data from said program memory to said data memory. 19. A data processing device as in claim 18, wherein said data processing device includes a data address generator, and a block move address register (BMAR); and wherein said circuitry for moving is responsive to an instruction received from said program bus; and said instruction includes addresses with one of said addresses being received from said data address generator, and, another of said addresses being received from either an immediate constant received from said program bus or said block move address register (BMAR). 20. A data processing device as in claim 18, said circuitry for moving including circuitry for moving data from either an on-chip or off-chip data memory location. 21. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said data addresses have a pre-determined number of bits addressing a pre-determined number of accessible locations in data memory; said data processing device including means for extending said pre-determined number of accessible locations; said means for extending including a global register; said global register being loaded with a pre-determined value; said pre-determined value being concatenated with said predetermined number of bits. 22. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said address circuitry includes a register pointer; said registers comprise auxiliary registers; selected ones of said auxiliary registers store data addresses of instruction operands; said register pointer being loaded with a value corresponding to one of said auxiliary registers; said register pointer being loaded by either said data bus or said program bus and directing the release of the contents of one of said register. 23. A data processing device as in claim 22, wherein said address circuitry includes a register pointer multiplexer; said register pointer multiplexer directing loading of said register pointer and receiving instructions for loading said register pointer from said central processor. 24. A data processing device as in claim 22, said address circuitry including an auxiliary register pointer buffer (ARB) providing storage for the contents of said register pointer during subroutine calls. 25. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said central processor includes an accumulator, and, a product register; one or more of said registers being loaded by said data memory, accumulator, product register, or by an immediate operand defined in an instruction from said program bus. 26. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein values contained in one or more of said registers being stored in said data memory. 27. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein contents of one or more of said registers are accessible to said central processor. 28. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said address circuitry includes an auxiliary register arithmetic unit (ARAU) for indirect addressing; said ARAU auto-indexing said registers in parallel with requesting delivery of selected data in said data memory identified by a data address from said registers. 29. A data processing device as in claim 28, wherein said auto-indexing includes incrementing or decrementing by 1 the contents of one of said registers. 30. A data processing device as in claim 29, said address circuitry including a register pointer; said register pointer containing a value corresponding to said one register and directing the release of the contents of said one register to said ARAU. 31. A data processing device as in claim 28, said address circuitry including an index register (INDX); an instruction register (IR); and, a first multiplexer; said first multiplexer selectively connecting said index and instruction registers to said ARAU. 32. A data processing device as in claim 31, wherein said address circuitry includes a second multiplexer, and circular buffer address circuitry for providing circular buffer address information; said first and second multiplexer selectively connecting one of said registers and said circular buffer address circuitry to said ARAU. 33. A data processing device as in claim 32, wherein said circular buffer address circuitry includes a circular buffer start address register (CBSR); a circular buffer end address register (CBER); said first multiplexer connecting said CBER to said ARAU; said ARAU comparing contents of said CBER and one of said registers; said ARAU loading said one register with contents of said CBSR upon matching contents of said CBER with contents of said one register. 34. A data processing device as in claim 33, said address circuitry including an address compare register; said data bus connecting to said first and second multiplexers, said registers, said CBER, said index register, said circular buffer start register, and said ARCR. 35. A data processing device as in claim 34, said address circuitry including an ARAU; said first multiplexer connecting said CBER, said INDX and said ARCR and said instruction register to said ARAU multiplying information in said registers to said ARAU. 36. A data processing device as in claim 31, wherein said address circuitry includes an indirect address compare register (ARCR); said first multiplexer selectively connecting said ARCR to said ARAU for comparing contents of said ARCR to the contents of one of said registers. 37. A data processing device as in claim 31, wherein contents of said index register are added to or subtracted from contents of one of said registers by said ARAU. 38. A data processing device as in claim 28, said ARAU including arithmetic circuitry for implementing general purpose arithmetic. 39. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein said central processor includes control arithmetic logic circuitry for directly accessing and operating upon the contents of said registers. 40. A data processing device as in claim 13, wherein one or more of said registers are accessed as loop counters. 41. A data processing device as in claim 13, said address circuitry including a circular buffer control register; and at least two circular buffers controlled by said circular buffer control register. 42. A data processing device as in claim 41, wherein each of said circular buffers includes a circular buffer start address register (CBSR) and a circular buffer end address register (CBER); and wherein contents of said circular buffer registers are compared with contents of one of said registers for buffer begin and end control. 43. A data processing device as in claim 42, said address circuitry including an auxiliary register arithmetic unit (ARAU) for sending and manipulating data addresses; each of said circular buffers receiving a data address from said registers, updating said data address, and providing said updated data address to said ARAU for comparing against a value contained in said CBER. 44. A data processing device is in claim 43, where said updating of the data addresses includes incrementing or decrementing. 45. A data processing device as in claim 41, each of said two circular buffers operating at pre-determined times which may coincide. 46. A data processing device as in claim 41, each of said circular buffers including a circular buffer enable register for enabling the operation of each of said respective circular buffers. 47. A data processing device as in claim 41, wherein said circular buffer control register contains an identifier number for selecting one of said registers. 48. A data processing device as in claim 13, said data processing device including circuitry for moving a block of data within data memory. 49. A data processing device as in claim 13, said data processing device including circuitry for copying a word from a currently addressed location in said data memory to a higher location in the same cycle as said word is operated upon in another area of said data processing device. 50. A data processing device as in claim 49, wherein said address circuitry includes an ARAU; and said circuitry for copying includes circuitry for enabling the ARAU to operate upon one or more of said registers. 51. A data processing device as in claim 13, said data processing device including a program memory and circuitry for transferring words between said program memory and said data memory. 52. A data processing device as in claim 51, said circuitry for transferring including circuitry for reading words from said program memory into said data memory. 53. A data processing device as in claim 52, said circuitry for transferring including circuitry for writing words from said data memory to said program memory. 54. A data processing device, including: a central processor unit (CPU); a data memory; a program bus; a data bus; a data address bus; direct address circuitry including a data memory page pointer for generating direct addresses and sending said direct addresses to said data address bus; selector circuitry controlled by said CPU for selectively filling said page pointer with a page address; a data memory word pointer being filled with a word address from said program bus and being concatenated with said page pointer to create a data memory address used for accessing said data memory; address circuitry for generating indirect addresses and including an address generator and a series of auxiliary registers for providing a data memory address for accessing said data memory; wherein said address generator sends said data memory address to said data address bus, has circuitry for manipulating the contents of a selected register, and includes a register pointer for selecting one of said registers; and immediate address circuitry for immediately manipulating data or addresses without referencing a data address; and wherein said auxiliary registers are memory mapped for addressing by said central processor unit and said indirect address circuitry and said central processor unit accesses registers of said address generator without adding a register field to an instruction. 55. A method for addressing data in a data processing device, having: a central processor with at least one register, an address generator with auxiliary registers, a data memory, and, circuitry for communicating between said central processor, address generator, and data memory; said method for addressing, a) memory mapping said auxiliary registers; b) accessing and manipulating the contents of said auxiliary registers by said central processor using a memory address; said contents comprising data addresses; c) requesting release of data from data memory stored in accessible location corresponding to said data addresses, and, d) sending said data to said central processor for access and manipulation, whereby said central processor accesses registers associated with the addresses generator without adding a register field to an instruction. 