A positive-drive field actuator motor including a stator carrying at least one field actuator which changes in dimension responsive to application of an energy field, and at least one drive shoe movable by the dimensional changes of the field actuator to contact and move a rotor element with respect to the stator. Various embodiments of the motor are disclosed, and the rotor element may be moved linearly or arcuately.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motor, comprising: a stator; a T-shaped drive shoe having a head and a body, carried by said stator and including an arcuate exterior shaft contact surface on said head having a first radius of curvature; two field actuators disposed between said stator and said drive shoe, flanking and substantially parallel to said drive shoe body and contacting said drive shoe head on each side of said body; a first biasing element acting upon said drive shoe in opposition to said two field actuators; at last a third field actuator oriented transversely to said two field actuators and disposed between said stator and said drive shoe; a second biasing element acting upon said drive shoe in opposition to said at least a third field actuator; and a cylindrical, rotatable shaft having a second radius of curvature less than said first radius of curvature, adjacent said shaft contact surface of said drive shoe. 2. The motor of claim 1, wherein said second biasing element comprises a leaf spring. 3. The motor of claim 1, wherein said rotatable shaft is carried on an axle. 4. The motor of claim 1, wherein said rotatable shaft is oriented transversely with respect to said drive shoe contact surface. 5. A motor, comprising: a stator; a T-shaped drive shoe carried by said stator and including an exterior shaft contact surface; two field actuators disposed between said stator and said drive shoe, flanking a body of said T and aligned substantially parallel thereto, and contacting a head of the T on each side of the body; a first biasing element acting upon said drive shoe in opposition to said two field actuators; at least a third field actuator oriented transversely to said two field actuators and disposed between said stator and said drive shoe; a second biasing element acting upon said drive shoe in opposition to said at least a second field actuator; and a rotatable shaft adjacent said shaft contact surface of said drive shoe. 6. The motor of claim 5, wherein said second biasing element comprises a leaf spring. 7. The motor of claim 5, wherein said shaft is cylindrical in exterior cross-sectional profile, and said contact surface includes an arcuate portion, said arcuate portion having a radius of curvature greater than that of said shaft profile. 8. The motor of claim 5, wherein said rotatable shaft is carried on an axle. 9. The motor of claim 5, wherein said rotatable shaft is oriented transversely with respect to said drive shoe contact surface. 