A new method and apparatus for fabrication or alignment of fixtures, jigs and structures is disclosed. The invention uses target points on one or more details which are referenced to the overall structure via targets on the details. These targets are monitored by a TV camera unit which is alternatively interfaced to a display for the human operator or a robot to provide position data. The interface may include input from a CAD system which allows display on robot coordinates to be offset by design data of the structure or a part to be located on it. While mainly envisioned for assistance in constructing fixtures for automobile assembly, the disclosed invention is widely useable for all types of construction including aircraft, bridges, boats, buses, houses, buildings and the like. A means for improving resolution of automatically served camera based systems is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of providing a fixture for holding a part comprising: providing a base; attaching a plurality of part support members to said base for supporting a part in a supported position on said base; sensing data related to the location of said part support members; and automatically adjusting at least one of said part support members to accommodate a part to be supported, said adjusting being controlled in response to said sensed data. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said sensing is performed electronically. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said sensing is electro-optical. 4. A method according to claim 2, wherein said sensing is in 3 D. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said sensing employs a plurality of individual sensors. 6. A method according to claim 1, further including verifying said sensed data with respect to a CAD data base of the part. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein said support members are capable of axial adjustment. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said location is sensed in more than two axes with respect to said base. 9. A method according to claim 1, further including verifying said sensed data with respect to a support member data base derived from a CAD data base of said part. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said adjusting is accomplished in two or more axes. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said adjusting is accomplished by adjusting said part support members linearly or angularly. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein said adjusting is accomplished in more than three axes. 13. A method according to claim 1, further including locking said part support member in place after said adjusting. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said support members includes a locating detail with a specialized face. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the locating surface of said support is angularly adjustable. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein the angular adjustment of said support member is effected via a ball joint or gimbal. 17. A method according to claim 1, further comprising joining a part in said supported position to a further part. 18. A method according to claim 17, wherein said joining comprises welding. 19. A method according to claim 1, including the additional step of providing an operator display of support member locations. 20. A method of providing a fixture for holding an object comprising the steps of: providing a base having a plurality of object holding details mounted thereon; providing a data base of an object to be held by said fixture; deriving data from said object data base to derive data concerning the positions of said object holding details of said fixture; and positioning at least one of said object holding details said base in accordance with said derived data to accommodate an object to be held by said fixture. 21. A method according to claim 20, further comprising sensing data related to the location of said object holding details. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein said positioning is effected robotically. 23. A method according to claim 22, further comprising sensing data related to the location of said object holding details. 24. A fixture for holding objects comprising: a base; a plurality of positionable object locating members attached to the base; robotic means for positioning said one or more of said object locating members with respect to the base; and robot positioning control means responsive to design data concerning objects to be located by said fixture. 25. A fixture for holding objects comprising: a base; a plurality of positionable object locating members attached to the base; means for sensing the location of at least one of said object locating members; means for automatically adjusting the position of at least one of said object locating members, said adjustment means being responsive to the sensed location thereof; and means for displaying to an operator information concerning positioning of said locating members to accommodate said object. 26. A fixture according to claim 25, wherein said display provides information derived from design data concerning an object to be located by said fixture. 27. A fixture according to claim 25, wherein said adjustment means is responsive to design data of an object to be located by said fixture. 28. A fixture according to claim 25, further including means for locking said object locating member in place. 29. A fixture according to claim 25, further including means for attaching said object location members to said base at a variety of locations. 