A system and method are disclosed for internally administering a medicinal agent to a patient under the automatic control of a computer. A diagnostic imaging modality, such as a CAT or MRI scanning system, generates one or more images of the patient's anatomy showing a diseased area such as a tumor to which it is desired to deliver the medicinal agent by injection. For each such image, location coordinates with respect to a patient support structure are calculated by the computer for each individual pixel making up the image. Location coordinates are then defined for a select body region corresponding to pixels of the anatomical image(s) designated by a user of the system to receive the medicinal agent. The computer then operates a manipulator arm in order to position an injection needle mounted on the arm adjacent to the select body region and insert the needle into the region at the appropriate depth. An injector is then operated under computer control to force a predetermined amount of the medicinal agent out of a conduit within the injection needle and into the select body region.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for internally administering a medicinal agent to a patient, comprising the steps of: supporting a patient on a patient support which is relatively movable with respect to an injection needle mounted on a computer controlled manipulator arm so that the injection needle may be inserted into select regions of the patient's body under control of a computer; scanning a select portion of the patient's body with a scanning imaging device so as to generate image information relating to select regions of the patient's body; sensing the relative positions of said patient support, said injection needle, and said scanning imaging device, and generating and feeding coded signals representing the sensed positions to a computer in digitized form; operating the computer to calculate location coordinates of a select body region requiring treatiment and defined by select pixels making of the images produced by said scanning imaging device, using the coded signals to predeterminately and relatively position of said patient support means and said imaging means; designating and inputting to a computer select pixels of images produced by said imaging device which represent select regions of the patient's body to which it is desired to administer the medicinal agent; calculating location coordinates of said injection needle and determining if an operating end of said injection needle is properly located at a select body region into which it is desired to administer said medicinal agent; and, when so located, forcing the operating end of said injection needle a select distance into the body and injecting said medicinal agent into said select body region. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the step of transmitting radiation from a radiation source through a first optical waveguide within said injection needle so as to irradiate a select body region into which said needle is inserted. 3. A method in accordance with claim 2 wherein said radiation is generated by a laser. 4. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said imaging device and said patient support are relatively movable with respect to one another and further comprising the step of positioning said imaging device under computer control so as to image select portions of the patient's body. 5. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the steps of automatically moving said injection needle under control of said computer until said injection needle is inserted into a select body region into which it is desired to administer said medicinal agent and automatically injecting said medicinal agent. 6. A method in accordance with claim 1 further comprising the step of computer controlling the amount of medicinal agent injected into a select body region. 7. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said medicinal agent is a chemotherapeutic agent. 8. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said medicinal agent is a liposome containing a chemical agent. 9. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein said medicinal agent is a liposome containing a biological agent. 10. A system for controllably administering a medicinal agent to a patient comprising: a computer; an injection needle having a conduit therein for flowing a medicinal agent into tissue in which the needle is inserted and an injector for forcing the medicinal agent through said conduit; a patient support surface; a manipulator arm assembly supporting said injection needle and a power driving device for moving said manipulator arm along multiple axes and for moving said patient support surface; wherein said power driving device is under control of said computer to cause it to controllably move and insert said injection needle into select regions of the patient's body; a scanning imaging device for generating image information of select anatomical regions of the patient's body; sensors for sensing the relative positions of said patient support, said manipulator arm, and said scanning imaging device, and generating and feeding coded signals representing the sensed positions to said computer in digitized form; a first program for calculating location coordinates of body regions defined by pixels making up the images produced by said scanning imaging device, using the coded signals representing the sensed relative positions of said patient support means and said imaging device; an electronic display device for displaying images and allowing the designation and inputting to said computer of select pixels of said images which correspond to select regions of the patient's body into which it is desired to insert said injection needle and administer said medicinal agent; and a second program for calculating location coordinates of said injection needle and for determining if said injection needle is located at a select body region into which it is desired to administer said medicinal agent. 11. A system in accordance with claim 10 further comprising a radiation source controlled by said computer and coupled to a first optical waveguide within said injection needle for transmitting said radiation to a select body region. 12. A system in accordance with claim 11 wherein said radiation source is a laser. 13. A system in accordance with claim 11 wherein said device for allowing operator designation of select body portions to which therapeutic radiation is applied comprises an interactive image display system for displaying images generated by said imaging device and a cursor positionable by the operator so as to outline select areas of the displayed image, the select areas then being input to said computer to indicate the select body regions into which said medicinal agent is to be administered. 14. A system in accordance with claim 11 wherein said medicinal agent is a chemotherapeutic agent for killing cancer cells. 15. A system in accordance with claim 10 wherein said computer is programmed with software for automatically controlling movement of said manipulator arm so as to cause the insertion of said injection needle into a select body region at a desired depth. 16. A system in accordance with claim 15 wherein said computer is programmed with software for automatically controlling operation of said injector so as to cause it to inject a pretermined amount of said medicinal agent into a select body region. 17. A system in accordance with claim 10 wherein said imaging device includes an ultrasonic pulse-echo transducer means and and further comprising an actuator for effecting relative movement between said patient support surface and said imaging device including a robotic arm for positioning said ultrasonic transducer under control of said computer. 18. A system in accordance with claim 10 wherein said imaging device is a magnetic resonance imaging device. 19. A system in accordance with claim 10 wherein said imaging device is a computerized axial tomography scanner. 20. A system in accordance with claim 10 further comprising an actuator for effecting relative movement between said patient support and said imaging device under control of said computer. 