An electronic device includes an electronic circuit having points for introducing power supply voltage, ground return, and at least one output. A keyless device package holds the electronic circuit, and the keyless device package is subject to misorientation. Terminals, including terminals for power supply voltage, the ground return and the output, are connected to the electronic circuit and secured to the device package. The terminals are distributed on the device package so that a turning reorientation of the entire electronic device translates the terminals to each other only in a way which prevents electrical stress to the electronic circuit due to possible misorientation of the electronic device under test. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing circuit assemblies, comprising the steps of: loading electronic devices into a machine, where rotational misorientation of the electronic device is possible; operating said machine to automatically connect one or more of said electronic devices to each of said circuit assemblies; energizing selected circuit assemblies to nondestructively disable any misoriented electronic device connected thereto; ascertaining which of the energized circuit assemblies are disabled; and selecting those circuit assemblies which are disabled for proper reorientation of the electronic device connected thereto. 2. A method of manufacturing circuit assemblies, comprising the steps of: loading keyless electronic devices into a machine, where a rotational misorientation of the keyless electronic devices is possible; operating said machine to automatically connect one or more of the keyless electronic devices to each of said circuit assemblies; energizing selected circuit assemblies to nondestructively disable any misoriented keyless electronic device connected thereto; electrically ascertaining which of the energized circuit assemblies are free of disablement; and accepting the ascertained circuit assemblies having proper orientation of the keyless electronic devices connected thereto. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said operating step further includes, socketing the keyless electronic devices to the circuit assemblies. 