A virtual surgery system or virtual testing system provides a simulation or test based on image data. A simulator combined with a real exam requires simulation tasks by a test taker. Additionally, a surgical procedure may be simulated using image data of a patient in devices simulating the physical instruments a surgeon uses in performing the actual procedure, for example. The user input device, such as a mouse, three dimensional mouse, joystick, seven dimensional joystick, full size simulator, etc., can be used in a virtual simulation to move through the image data while the user looks at the data and interaction of the input device with the image data on a display screen. Force feedback can be provided based on based on physical constraint models (of the anatomy, for example), or based on edge and collision detection between the virtual scope or virtual tool used by the operator and walls or edges of the image data in the image space. The virtual simulator may be used as a teaching, training, testing, demonstration, or remote telesurgery device, for example.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A virtual surgery input device comprising: a housing, said housing having a virtual orifice, wherein said virtual orifice is connected to a computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure and wherein said virtual orifice may be adjusted by the computer to represent a particular orifice of a human body; and a surgical instrument simulator partially accommodated within said housing, said surgical instrument simulator entering said housing through said virtual orifice. 2. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 1, further comprising means for providing force feedback on said surgical instrument simulator. 3. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 1 wherein said virtual orifice is able to transmit data to the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure. 4. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 1 further comprising a virtual mouse connected to said surgical instrument simulator at a location external to said housing. 5. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 4 wherein said virtual mouse includes means for transmitting data to the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure. 6. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 4 wherein said virtual mouse includes means for moving said surgical instrument simulator. 7. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 4 wherein said virtual mouse includes means for simulating a function performed by a medical instrument in a surgical procedure. 8. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 7 wherein said function performed in a surgical procedure is suction. 9. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 2 wherein said means for providing force feedback on said surgical instrument simulator is edge collision and detection software resident in the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure and a force feedback device attached to said housing. 10. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device includes rollers, arms and springs. 11. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is a mechanical device. 12. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is an electro-mechanical device. 13. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is a pneumatic device. 14. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 9 wherein said force feedback device is a hydraulic device. 15. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 1 wherein said housing includes rollers, arms and springs and wherein said surgical instrument simulator is accommodated within said housing by positioning said surgical instrument simulator by said rollers, arms and springs. 16. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 1 wherein said housing is a box. 17. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 1 wherein said surgical instrument simulator is a tube. 18. A virtual surgery input device comprising: a housing, said housing having a virtual orifice connected to a computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure; and a surgical instrument simulator partially accommodated within said housing, said surgical instrument simulator entering said housing through said virtual orifice; wherein said virtual orifice may be adjusted by said computer to represent a particular orifice of a human body and wherein when said virtual orifice is adjusted to represent a particular orifice of a human body the computer provides data for the anatomy related to the particular orifice of the human body to a display device. 19. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 18 wherein said housing includes rollers, arms and springs and wherein said surgical instrument simulator is positioned within said housing by said rollers, arms and springs. 20. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 18, further comprising means for providing force feedback on said surgical instrument simulator. 21. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 18 wherein said housing is a box. 22. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 18 wherein said surgical instrument simulator is a tube. 23. A virtual surgery input device comprising: a housing, said housing having a plurality of human anatomy simulators contained within said housing and wherein each of said human anatomy simulators are accessed through a virtual orifice, wherein said virtual orifice is connected to a computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure and wherein said virtual orifice may be adjusted by the computer to represent a particular orifice of a human body; and a surgical instrument simulator partially accommodated within said housing, said surgical instrument simulator entering said housing through said virtual orifice. 24. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 18 further comprising means for providing force feedback on said surgical instrument simulator. 25. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 24 wherein said means for providing force feedback on said surgical instrument simulator is edge collision and detection software resident in the computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure and a force feedback device contained within said housing. 26. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 23 wherein said housing is a box. 27. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 23 wherein said surgical instrument simulator is a tube. 28. A virtual surgery input device comprising: a housing, said housing having a virtual orifice connected to a computer used for conducting a virtual surgery procedure; and a surgical instrument simulator partially accommodated within said housing, said surgical instrument simulator entering said housing through said virtual orifice; wherein said virtual orifice may be manually adjusted by a user of the virtual surgery input device to represent a particular orifice of a human body and wherein when said virtual orifice is adjusted to represent a particular orifice of a human body the computer provides data for the anatomy related to the particular orifice of the human body to a display device. 29. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 28 wherein said housing includes rollers, arms and springs and wherein said surgical instrument simulator is positioned within said housing by said rollers, arms and springs. 30. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 28 further comprising means for providing force feedback on said surgical instrument simulator. 31. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 28 wherein said housing is a box. 32. The virtual surgery input device according to claim 28 wherein said surgical instrument simulator is a tube. 