A method and apparatus for fabricating known good semiconductor dice are provided. The method includes the steps of: testing the gross functionality of dice contained on a semiconductor wafer; sawing the wafer to singulate a die; and then testing the die by assembly in a carrier having an interconnect adapted to establish electrical communication between the bond pads on the die and external test circuitry. The interconnect for the carrier can be formed using different contact technologies including: thick film contact members on a rigid substrate; self-limiting contact members on a silicon substrate; or microbump contact members with a textured surface. During assembly of the carrier, the die and interconnect are optically aligned and placed into contact with a predetermined contact force. This establishes an electrical connection between the contact members on the interconnect and the bond pads of the die. In the assembled carrier the die and interconnect are biased together by a force distribution mechanism that includes a bridge clamp, a pressure plate and a spring clip. Following testing of the die, the carrier is disassembled and the tested die is removed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for manufacturing a semiconductor die comprising: a carrier for retaining the die for testing, the carrier including an interconnect comprising a contact member for establishing temporary electrical communication with a contact location on the die and a force distribution mechanism for biasing the die against the interconnect; an optical probe for viewing the contact member on the interconnect and the contact location on the die; a support member for supporting the carrier; an assembly member for placing the die in contact with the interconnect and for attaching the force distribution mechanism to the carrier; the support member, or the assembly member, configured to align the contact member and the contact location with input from the optical probe, and to maintain alignment as the force distribution mechanism is attached to the carrier. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the assembly member comprises a vacuum conduit for holding the die and a mechanism for attaching the force distribution mechanism to the carrier. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the support member or the assembly member is movable along x, y and z axes, and is movable in a rotational direction. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the contact member comprises a raised member formed on a substrate and covered with a conductive layer. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the contact member comprises a metal bump on an electrically insulating tape. 6. An apparatus for manufacturing a semiconductor die comprising: a carrier for retaining the die for testing, the carrier including an interconnect comprising a contact member configured to establish temporary electrical communication with a contact location on the die and a force distribution mechanism for biasing the die against the interconnect; an assembly member configured to place the die on the interconnect and to attach the force distribution mechanism to the carrier; a support member configured to support the carrier, the support member or the assembly member movable along x, y, and z axes, and along a rotational axis; and an optical probe configured to view the contact member on the interconnect and to simultaneously view the contact location on the die to provide input for moving the support member or the assembly member to align and place the contact member in electrical communication with the contact location as the force distribution mechanism is attached to the carrier. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the force distribution mechanism comprises a spring, a pressure plate and a clamp. 8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the assembly member comprises a vacuum wand. 9. An apparatus for manufacturing a semiconductor die comprising: a carrier comprising a base for retaining the die for testing, a contact member for electrically contacting a contact location on the die, and a spring for biasing the die against the contact member; an assembly member comprising a robot with a vacuum conduit for holding the die and the spring, the robot configured to alian and place the contact member in electrical contact with the contact location, and to attach the spring to the base; a support member configured to support the base; and an optical probe configured to view the contact member and the contact location to provide input for moving the robot to place the contact member and the contact location in electrical contact, and to attach the spring to the base. 10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein the carrier further comprises a clamp member attached to the spring for attaching the spring to the base. 11. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein the assembly member comprises a die holder configured to hold a plurality of singulated dice. 12. An apparatus for manufacturing a semiconductor die comprising: a carrier for retaining the die for testing, the carrier comprising a base and an interconnect with a plurality of contact members for making temporary electrical connections with contact locations on the die and a force distribution mechanism for biasing the die against the interconnect; an optical probe configured to view the contact members and the contact locations; and a carrier assembly mechanism configured to assemble the carrier by placing the die on the interconnect and by attaching the force distribution mechanism to the base, the carrier assembly mechanism comprising a vacuum member configured to pick and place the die on the carrier responsive to input from the optical probe, a retainer mechanism configured to attach the force distribution mechanism to the base, and a support mechanism configured to support the carrier, with either the vacuum member or the support mechanism movable responsive to input from the optical probe to align the contact members on the carrier and the contact locations on the die. 13. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein the force distribution mechanism comprises a spring and a bridge clamp. 14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein the vacuum member is movable along x, y and z axes, and is movable in a rotational direction. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein the support member is movable along x, y and z axes, and is movable in a rotational direction. 16. An apparatus for manufacturing a semiconductor die comprising: a carrier for retaining the die for testing, the carrier comprising a base, a contact member on the base for electrically contacting a contact location on the die, and a clamp and spring attachable to the base for biasing the die against the contact member; a carrier handler for holding a plurality of carriers; a die holder for holding a plurality of dice; a tray for holding a plurality of clamps and springs; a robot configured to pick the die from the die holder, to pick the carrier from the carrier handler, to pick the clamp and spring from the tray, to align the contact location on the die with the contact member on the base, to place the die on the contact member, and to attach the clamp to the base with the spring biasing the die against the contact member; and an optical probe configured to view the contact location on the die, and the contact member on the carrier; and to provide input for controlling the robot to align the contact location and the contact member. 17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein the robot comprises a vacuum conduit for holding die and a mechanism for holding the clamp. 18. The apparatus as claimed in claim 16 wherein the robot is configured to disassemble the carrier by removing the clamp and spring from the base and the die from the contact member. 