A Voice Response Unit (VRU) 10 provides ports 12 to which communications devices 13 may be coupled. Two-way conversations between ports 12 are enabled by inter-port connections made by system bus 16 as controlled by distributed switch 15. Summation resources 25, permanently inserted in signal paths to and from ports 12, provide digital summers 33A, 33B and 33C that then permit signal processing resource 22 to be conferenced in on said two-way conversations without having to route signals through conference bridge resources.
Claims I claim: 1. A voice response unit having robotic conferencing capability, comprising: a plurality of ports including first and second ports, a first communicator coupled to the first port, a second communicator coupled to the second port; a bus, the bus disposed to switchably connect said first and second ports to enable a digital conversation along a signal path established therebetween, a first side of the digital conversation comprising the first port receiving digital information transmitted from the second port, a second side of the digital conversation comprising the second port receiving digital information transmitted from the first port; at least one summation resource permanently inserted in the signal path, at least one of said summation resources including a first summer and a second summer and a third summer, each of said summers disposed to digitally combine digital signals input thereto; the first summer receiving input from the first side of the digital conversation and from a signal processing resource, output from the first summer disposed to be received at the first port; the second summer receiving input from the second side of the digital conversation and from the signal processing resource, output from the second summer disposed to be received at the second port; and the third summer receiving input from the first side of the digital conversation and from the second side of the digital conversation, output from the third summer disposed to be received by the signal processing resource. 2. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which said signal processing resource emits digitized speech responsive to information previously transmitted by either of the first and second communicators. 3. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which said first and second and third summers may be selectively enabled in combination. 4. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which the third summer receives input from the first side of the digital conversation before the first summer receives input from the signal processing resource. 5. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which the third summer receives input from the first side of the digital conversation after the first summer receives input from the signal processing resource. 6. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which the third summer receives input from the second side of the digital conversation before the second summer receives input from the signal processing resource. 7. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which the third summer receives input from the second side of the digital conversation after the second summer receives input from the signal processing resource. 8. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which each port in said plurality thereof has a separate summation resource assigned thereto. 9. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which separate summation resources are assigned to less than every port in said plurality thereof. 10. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which said digital conversation is in a medium selected from the group consisting of: (a) audio; and (b) DTMF. 11. The voice response unit of claim 1, in which said signal processing resource is disposed to process signals so as to enable at least one function selected from the group consisting of: (a) automated speech playback; (b) voice record; (c) text-to-speech conversion; and (d) voice recognition. 12. A method for conferencing robotic digital output and robotic digital input onto a communication, comprising the steps of: establishing a digital conversation along a signal path between a first port and a second port, the digital conversation comprising the first port receiving digital information transmitted by the second port and the second port receiving digital information transmitted by the first port; providing a summation resource, said summation resource including one or more digital summers, each of said summers disposed to combine digital signals input thereto; inserting said summation resource into said signal path; using said summation resource to create first combined output, said first combined output including robotic digital output combined with digital information transmitted by the second port, said first combined output disposed to be received at the first port; using said summation resource to create second combined output, said second combined output including robotic digital output combined with digital information transmitted by the first port, said second combined output disposed to be received at the second port; and using said summation resource to create third combined output, said third combined output including digital information transmitted by the first port combined with digital information transmitted by the second port, said third combined output disposed to be received as robotic digital input. 13. The method of claim 12, in which said digital conversation is in a medium selected from the group consisting of: (a) audio; and (b) DTMF. 14. The method of claim 12, in which said inserting step includes the substep of permanently installing said summation resource in said signal path. 