A contact lens production line pallet system transports contact lens mold materials throughout a facility for producing ophthalmic lenses. Specifically, the contact lens production line pallet system includes a pallet for carrying one or more contact lens mold assemblies throughout a contact lens production line, the pallet having one or more first recesses formed in a surface thereof for receiving either a first mold half or a complementary second mold half, the first and second mold halves when placed together constitute an individual contact lens mold assembly. A conveyor device for transporting the pallet from station to station throughout the production line facility is provided, as is a locating device formed in the pallet surface for enabling precise positioning of the pallet at one or more manufacturing stations in the production line facility.
Claims We claim: 1. A production line pallet system for producing a contact lens comprising: (a) a pallet, one or more contact lens mold assemblies carried on said pallet, a contact lens production line having one or more process stations, said pallet being conveyed along said production line, and said one or more stations including a process station for assembling said contact lens mold assemblies, each said contact lens mold assembly comprising a first mold half and a complementary second mold half, said pallet having one or more first recesses formed in a surface thereof for receiving either one or more first mold halves or one or more complementary second mold halves prior to assembling said contact lens mold assemblies; (b) a conveyor device for transporting said pallet from one process station to another process station through said production line; (c) registration means formed in said pallet surface for enabling precise positioning of said pallet at one or more process stations in said production line facility; and (d) said pallet surface further includes means for enabling viewing of contact lens production at said pallet surface, said means for enabling viewing includes an optic viewing device and a blind recess in said pallet surface for accommodating said optic viewing device for viewing production operations at various locations throughout said contact lens production line. 2. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein each of said first mold halves and complementary second mold halves of said contact lens mold assemblies includes an annular uniplanar flange portion. 3. The production line pallet system according to claim 2 wherein each of said first recesses further includes a recessed flange area of predetermined depth for supporting said annular flange portions of either said first mold half and complementary second mold half. 4. The production line pallet system according to claim 3 wherein each said recessed flange area enables said annular flange portions of either said first mold half and complementary second mold half to lie substantially planar with or slightly below said pallet surface. 5. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said first mold half and second complementary second mold half include an optical quality surface, each said one or more first recesses formed in said pallet surface providing sufficient clearance to protect said optical quality surface when said mold half is seated therein. 6. The production line pallet system according to claim 3 wherein each said recessed flange area of said first recesses further prevents movement of said first mold half and complementary second mold half to within about +0.1 mm and -0.1 mm of its normally seated position. 7. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein each of said first mold halves and complementary second mold halves of said contact lens mold assembly includes an uniplanar tab portion extending from said annular flange. 8. The production line pallet system according to claim 7 wherein each of said first recesses further includes a recessed tab area for accommodating said tab portion of either said first mold half and complementary second mold half to normally seat said mold halves in a predetermined orientation within a respective first recess. 9. The production line pallet system according to claim 8 wherein each said recessed tab area of said first recesses provides a predetermined alignment of said first mold half and complementary second mold half with each other when seated in said respective first recess. 10. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said registration means in said pallet surface includes one or more locating bushings at precise locations at said pallet surface. 11. The production line pallet system according to claim 10 wherein said one or more bushings allows precise positioning of said pallet at said one or more stations to within about +0.1 mm and -0.1 mm accuracy. 12. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor device includes a rail means for guiding said pallet throughout predetermined portions of said production line, said pallet including indentations for engagement with said rail means while being transported. 13. The production line pallet system according to claim 12 wherein said conveyor device includes a walking beam for driving said pallet along said rail means. 14. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor device includes a conveyor belt for serially transporting pallets for predetermined distances along said production line. 15. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor device includes constant drive rollers for serially transporting pallets for predetermined distances along said production line. 16. The production line pallet system according to claim 12 wherein said conveyor device includes a ram pusher for pushing said pallet for predetermined distances along said production line. 17. The production line pallet system according to claims 12 or 13 wherein said pallet is driven along said rail means and processed at one or more process stations including a vacuum environment, said rail means preventing vertical movement of said pallet when said vacuum environment is removed. 18. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein a bottom surface of said pallet engages said conveyor device for driving said pallet throughout said production line. 19. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor device comprises first and second conveyor belt means for simultaneously transporting a respective first series and second series of pallets, said first conveyor belt means conveying said first series of pallets carrying said first mold halves and said second conveyor belt means conveying said second series of pallets carrying complementary second mold halves for conveyance thereof. 20. The production line pallet system according to claim 19 further including sequencing means for positioning a pallet carrying said first mold halves from said first conveyor belt means adjacent a pallet carrying said complementary second mold halves from said second conveyor belt means and enabling said adjacently positioned pallets to be conveyed on a sequencing conveyor device through said production line. 21. The production line pallet system according to claims 14 or 15 further including accumulating means for enabling a series of pallets to accumulate on said conveyor device for batch processing at predetermined portions of said production line. 22. The production line pallet system according to claim 21 wherein said accumulating means for enabling batch processing includes a clamping means at a downstream location for stopping motion of a first pallet and one or more pallets located upstream of said first pallet to enable accumulation of said one or more pallets therebehind. 23. The production line pallet system according to claim 22 further including ram means for enabling sequential transport of said pallets on said conveyor device after batch processing thereof. 24. The production line pallet system according to claim 20 wherein means are provided for removing said complementary second mold halves from said second series of pallets for assembly of said contact lens molds at said mold assembly station resulting in an empty pallet at said contact lens mold assembly station, said system further including means for recirculating said empty pallet from said mold assembly station to said second belt means for receipt of complementary second mold halves. 25. The production line pallet system according to claim 24 wherein said means for recirculating said empty pallet includes a return conveyor belt. 26. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein at least one said process station includes a perimeter seal and said pallet surface is sufficiently smooth to mate with said perimeter seal to facilitate creating a vacuum at said surface during processing at said at least one process station with said perimeter seal. 27. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said pallet surface includes eight first recesses. 28. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein a bottom of said pallet is coated with lubricating material to facilitate sliding of said pallet along said conveyor device. 29. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said pallet further includes bar code identification means for enabling identification of said pallet at various locations throughout said contact lens production line. 30. The production line pallet system according to claim 29 wherein said bar code identification means includes means for identifying a rejected pallet, said pallet system further including ram means for rejecting said pallet from said conveyor device after identification. 31. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said pallets are transported on said conveyor device in a low oxygen environment throughout portions of said contact lens production line. 32. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said low oxygen environment includes N.sub.2 gas, and said system further including means for preventing nitrogen loss from the environment during transportation of the pallets in and out of the environment. 33. The production line pallet system according to claim 1 wherein said contact lens production line includes a station having clamping means for clamping said contact lens mold assemblies, said conveyor device further including a conveyor and means for vertically lifting a plurality of pallets on said conveyor to enable said clamping means to clamp said mold assemblies. 