An apparatus for interfacing between a human operator and a manufacturing cell having a plurality of mechanical units for assembling components and subassemblies includes a video monitor responsive to display signals for generating to the human operator a graphic display of information related to a selected one of a plurality of mechanical units in the manufacturing cell. An input device such as a mouse is responsive to the human operator for generating command signals representing desired changes to the graphic display including information as to which of the mechanical units is selected, which style of components is selected and an amount and direction of a software shim to be applied to the selected mechanical unit. A data processing means is connected to the video monitor and to the input device, is responsive to the command signals for generating control signals and is responsive to position signals for generating the display signals. The data processing means is connected to the manufacturing cell for receiving the position signals generated by the selected mechanical unit representing a predetermined master position of the selected mechanical unit and the mechanical unit is responsive to the control signals for repositioning to a new desired position represented by the command signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for modifying a position of a programmable fixture comprising: a storage means for storing part program master position information representing a master position for a mechanical unit referenced to a predetermined common reference point; a manufacturing cell having a least one mechanical unit for engaging components to be assembled, said mechanical unit being responsive to a control signal for moving to said master position; an interface means being responsive to a display signal for generating a visual representation of the master position and being responsive to a human operator for generating a command signal identifying software shim position information for moving said mechanical unit from said master position to a new position, said visual representation being a graphic display of a shim utility screen displaying a plurality of parameters defining said operator selected new position of the programmable fixture relative to a current position of the programmable fixture and including a manufacturing cell display area having a graphical representation of a position of said mechanical unit relative to said predetermined common reference point; and a data processing means connected to said storage means, said mechanical unit and said interface means, said data processing means being responsive to said stored part program master position information for generating said display signal and said control signal, said data processing means being responsive to said command signal for generating a software shim modified control signal, wherein said mechanical unit is responsive to said modified control signal for moving from said master position to said operator selected new position. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said shim utility screen includes a function selected display area having a visual indication of a function selected, a mechanical unit selected and a style selected for the programmable fixture. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said shim utility screen includes a shim history display area having a visual indication of software shims previously applied to the programmable fixture. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said visual indication includes an icon and title bar display area having a graphical representation of icons on software buttons representing operations to be performed by said data processing means. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said visual indication includes a tab bar display area having a graphical representation of software tabs representing operations to be performed by said data processing means. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said shim utility screen includes a shim size display area having a visual indication of a size of a software shim to be applied to the programmable fixture. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said shim size display area has a visual indication of a direction in which the software shim is to be applied to the programmable fixture. 8. An apparatus for modifying a position of a plurality of mechanical units in a manufacturing cell comprising: a manufacturing cell having a plurality of mechanical units for engaging components to be assembled, each said mechanical unit being responsive to control signals for moving to an associated master position referenced to a common reference point; a storage means for storing master position information for each of said mechanical units for each of a plurality of styles of components to be assembled; an interface means being responsive to display signals for generating a visual representation of said master position information and being responsive to a human operator for generating command signals identifying a selected mechanical unit, a selected style of components, and software shim direction and amount information for moving said selected mechanical unit from said associated master position to an associated new position referenced to said common reference point; and a data processing means connected to said storage means, said mechanical units and said interface means, said data processing means being responsive to said stored master position information for generating said display signals and said control signals, said data processing means being responsive to said command signals for generating a software shim modified control signal to said selected mechanical unit, said data processing means storing a set of software shim information in said storage means for each of a plurality of said software modified control signals, said software shim information representing said software shim modified control signal and being associated with said stored master position information for said selected mechanical unit and said selected style of components, whereby said interface means is responsive to said display signals for generating a visual representation of said sets of said software shim information and is responsive to a human operator for generating an undo command signal identifying a selected one of said sets of said software shim information and said data processing means is responsive to said undo command signal for deleting said selected set of said software shim information from said storage means, and said mechanical unit responds to said modified control signal by moving away from said associated master position to said associated new position. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 including a programmable controller connected between said data processing means and said mechanical units, said programmable controller being responsive to said control signals for moving said mechanical units. 10. A method of creating a software shim to modify a position of a mechanical unit in a manufacturing cell comprising the steps of: a. generating a graphic display of a master position of at least one mechanical unit in a manufacturing cell, said graphic display being a shim utility screen displaying a plurality of parameters defining an operator selected new position of the mechanical unit relative to a current position of the mechanical unit; b. inputting into a data processing means a command signal representing a selection of the mechanical unit; c. inputting into the data processing means a command signal representing a selection of a style program; d. inputting into the data processing means a command signal representing a selection of desired direction of movement for the selected mechanical unit; e. inputting into the data processing means a command signal representing a selection of a desired amount of movement in the selected direction; and f. generating from the data processing means a software shim modified control signal for moving the selected mechanical unit from the master position by the selected amount in the selected direction. 11. The method according to claim 10 including a step of storing software shim information representing said software shim modified control signal. 12. The method according to claim 11 including a step of storing master position information representing a master position for each of the mechanical units for each style program software and a step of associating said software shim information with the master position information for the selected mechanical unit. 