The invention provides screening assays for identifying an inhibitor of a pathogenic helicase activity, e.g. a helicase derived from a pathogenic infectious organism such as a bacterium, protozoan or fungus. Helicase activity is detected by the solid-phase, preferential capture of retained (non-liberated) single-stranded nucleic acid comprising a detectable label.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying an agent that modulates the activity of a helicase comprising the following steps in consecutive order: a) forming a mixture of a labeled first nucleic acid hybridized to a complementary unlabeled second nucleic acid, a helicase, a nucleoside triphosphate, and a candidate agent, wherein said first and second nucleic acids are both DNA or are both RNA; b) incubating said mixture in a reservoir under conditions wherein said helicase would unhybridize said first and second nucleic acids in the absence of said agent; c) immobilizing said second nucleic acid on a solid substrate by direct noncovalent binding, wherein said second nucleic acid has a greater affinity for said solid substrate than does the first nucleic acid; d) separating any unhybridized labeled first nucleic acids to obtain isolated, immobilized second nucleic acids; e) measuring the amount of said label retained on the immobilized second nucleic acid, wherein the amount of said label is indicative of the modulation of helicase activity by said agent. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said solid substrate is a micro-bead and said greater affinity results from said second nucleic acid being of greater length than said first nucleic acid. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said second nucleic acid comprises a ligand, wherein said greater affinity results from said ligand having a greater affinity for said solid substrate than does said first nucleic acid. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said solid substrate is coated with avidin, said ligand is biotin and said label is other than biotin. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said solid substrate is coated with a digoxigenin-specific antibody, said ligand is digoxigenin and said label is other than digoxigenin. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said label is a radiolabel. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said label is a fluorescent label. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein said label is biotin and said ligand is other than biotin. 9. The method of claim 3, wherein said label is digoxigenin and said ligand is other than digoxigenin. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said separating step comprises filtering said solid substrate. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said separating step is performed in a tube having a fluid passage comprising a reservoir portion and a evacuation portion a filter extending transversely across said passage and separating said reservoir portion from said evacuation portion, said filter being changeable from water-impermeable to water-permeable having a maximam pore size sufficiently large to freely pass said any unhybridized first nucleic acid and sufficiently small to retain said solid substrate. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein said filter comprises a first membrane being changeable from water-impermeable to water-permeable by contacting said first membrane with an effective concentration of an organic solvent and a second membrane being water-permeable and having a maximam pore size less than about 200 um diameter. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said helicase is a pathogenic helicase. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said hellcase is a pathogenic fungal helicase. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said helicase is a pathogenic human helicase. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said helicase is a pathogenic bacterial helicase. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said helicase is a pathogenic viral helicase. 