A wash station for washing probes which are used with robotic systems. In particular, the wash station is used with robotic systems to provide simultaneous cleaning of both the interior and the exterior of multiple probes employed by the system. The wash station consists of a base, multiple chambers and multiple cylinders. The robotic probe to be cleaned is inserted within one of the cylinders where it is immersed in wash liquid to wash the exterior walls. The cylinders are separated by chambers. The wash liquid is removed from the wash station via a drain located in the base. In a preferred embodiment, independent access for each probe into the wash station is provided. In addition, the wash station provides a large capacity for fluid handling and is constructed such that the station is water tight. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the wash station is constructed from chemically compatible materials which will not be affected by exposure to the materials needed for general chemical synthesis.
Claims We claim: 1. A wash station for simultaneously washing multiple robotic system probes comprising: a plurality of cylinders, wherein each cylinder has an upper end and a lower end and is provided with an opening throughout the entire length of the cylinder sufficient to accommodate one probe and allow for liquid to flow within the cylinder to wash the probe; a plurality of chambers, wherein each of the chambers has an upper portion and a lower tip and is provided with an opening throughout the entire length of the chamber sufficient to accommodate at least one of the cylinders; and a base unit which is provided with an opening sufficient to accommodate the plurality of chambers. 2. A wash station according to claim 1, wherein the base further comprises a means for receiving the lower end of the cylinders and an opening for facilitating the drainage of the liquid which has flowed through the cylinders out of the wash station. 3. A wash station according to claim 2, wherein the means for drainage comprises a drain channel in alignment with an opening in the base. 4. A wash station according to claim 3, wherein alignment means are provided for aligning the plurality of chambers within the base. 5. A wash station according to claim 4, wherein the alignment means comprises a dowel. 6. A wash station according to claim 3, wherein the means for receiving the lower ends of the cylinders comprises a plurality of pockets. 7. A wash station according to claim 6, wherein the each of the plurality of pockets is of sufficient size so as to accommodate the lower end of one cylinder in a watertight manner. 8. A wash station according to claim 6, wherein the drain channel is positioned adjacent to the plurality of pockets. 9. A wash station according to claim 6, wherein a plurality of individual drains are provided within the base such that each chamber accommodated within the base has access to a separate individual drain. 10. A wash station according to claim 9 wherein the plurality of individual drains each empty into a central drain channel. 11. A wash station according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of chambers are pressure fitted within the base. 12. A wash station according to claim 1, wherein the upper portion of the chamber has a greater diameter than the lower tip of the chamber. 13. A wash station according to claim 12, wherein a pressure fit is created between the upper portion of the chamber and an opening is created between the lower tip of the cylinder and the chamber. 14. A method for washing probes used in robotic systems using the wash station of claim 1. 15. A method for washing probes used in robotic systems comprising the steps of: a) providing an apparatus comprising: a plurality of cylinders, wherein each cylinder has an upper end and a lower end and is provided with an opening throughout the entire length of the cylinder sufficient to accommodate one probe and allow for liquid to flow within the cylinder to wash the probe; a plurality of chambers, wherein each of the chambers has an upper portion and a lower tip and is provided with an opening throughout the entire length of the chamber sufficient to accommodate at least one of the cylinders; and a base unit which is provided with an opening sufficient to accommodate the plurality of chambers; b) providing a wash liquid within the plurality of cylinders; c) immersing a probe within one or more of the plurality of chambers; d) allowing the wash liquid to flow upward along the probe; e) draining the wash liquid from the wash station; and f) removing the probe from the wash station. 