An apparatus (10) and method for selecting a fluid material to be supplied to a material applicator (24) from a plurality of fluid materials (23), the material applicator being located in a hazardous area (12), includes a control circuit (26) located in a non-hazardous area (11) for generating a coded address signal representing a selected fluid material and for generating a predetermined amount of electrical power, a valve selection circuit (27) located in the non-hazardous area and connected to the control circuit and being responsive to the coded address signal for generating the predetermined amount of electrical power at a selected one of a plurality of outputs corresponding to the coded address signal, and a valve actuation circuit (28) located in the hazardous area and including a separate valve (22) connected to each of the valve selection circuit outputs. The valves (22) includes electrically actuated valves (46) mounted on and pneumatically actuated valves (47) releasably retained in a manifold assembly (41) formed of a plurality of blocks (42,43,44) each having a material distribution passage (62) connected to the material applicator (24) and a material inlet passage (60) connected to the fluid material supply (23). The control circuit (26) limits the predetermined amount of electrical power to a value sufficient to actuate one of the electrically actuated valves (46) and permit fluid material flow from the material inlet passage (60) to the material distribution passage (62) through the associated one of the pneumatically actuated valves (47).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for selecting a fluid material from a plurality of fluid materials to be supplied to a material applicator that is located in a hazardous area, the apparatus comprising: a control circuit located in a non-hazardous area that is separated from the hazardous area that generates a coded address signal representing a selected fluid material and that generates a predetermined amount of electrical power; a valve selection circuit coupled with said control circuit and having at least two outputs each corresponding to a different fluid material, said valve selection circuit being located in the non-hazardous area and supplying said predetermined amount of electrical power at a corresponding one of said outputs responsive to said coded address signal; a valve assembly including a separate valve connected to each of said valve selection circuit outputs, said valve assembly being located in the hazardous area and each said valve including a material distribution passage in communication with the material applicator and a material inlet passage in communication with a separate supply of fluid material; a power inhibitor coupled between said control circuit and said valve selection circuit to prevent inadvertent actuation of said valves; and wherein said control circuit limits said predetermined amount of electrical power to a value sufficient to actuate only one of said valves to permit flow of fluid material from said material inlet passage to said material distribution passage. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said control circuit includes a power supply connected to an intrinsically safe barrier that limits said predetermined amount of electrical power to said valve. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said barrier permits an additional amount of electrical power sufficient to operate said valve selection circuit to be supplied to said valve selection circuit. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said control circuit includes a control that generates a control signal representing said selected fluid material and an address circuit that is responsive to said control signal and generates said coded address signal. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said coded address signal is a five bit binary coded signal and said valve selection circuit includes a five to thirty-two decoder that is responsive to said coded address signal and generates an output signal on a selected one of thirty-two of said outputs. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said valve selection circuit includes a decoder connected between a plurality of optical isolators and a plurality of switches, said optical isolators being connected to said control circuit and receiving said coded address signals and each of said switches being connected between said control circuit and an associated one of said valves for supplying said predetermined amount of electrical power to a selected one of said valves. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each said valve includes a pneumatically actuated valve member connected between said material distribution passage and said material inlet passage, an air distribution passage in communication with a common source of pressured air, and an electrically actuated valve member connected between said air distribution passage and said pneumatically actuated valve member and connected to said valve selection circuit, said predetermined amount of electrical power actuating said electrically actuated valve member such that said pneumatically actuated valve member permits a flow of the selected fluid material from said material inlet passage to said material distribution passage. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said valve assembly includes a block having at least one valve cavity formed therein for releasably retaining one of said pneumatically actuated valve members, said block having said material distribution passage, said material inlet passage and said air distribution passage formed therein, said electrically actuated valve member being mounted on said block and wherein said pneumatically actuated valve member can be removed from said valve cavity without moving said electrically actuated valve member. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 including a plurality of said blocks attached together in side-by-side relationship to form a manifold assembly with said material distribution passages being aligned. 