A gain medium is comprised of a multi-phase system wherein: a first phase is an electromagnetic radiation emission phase; a second phase is an electromagnetic radiation scattering phase; and a third phase is a transparent matrix phase. By example, the emission phase may consist of dye molecules, the scattering phase may consist of high contrast particles, and the matrix phase may consist of a solvent such as methanol. In some embodiments of this invention the emission and scattering phases may be the same phase, as when semiconductor particles are employed. A smallest dimension of a body comprised of the gain medium may be less than a scattering length associated with the scattering phase. It is shown that nearly thresholdless laser behavior is observed in strongly scattering optically pumped dye-methanol solutions containing colloidal TiO.sub.2 or Al.sub.2 O.sub.3 ruby nanoparticles. The emission from the high gain colloid exhibits a slope change in the linear input-output characteristics above a critical pump pulse energy. The change in slope is accompanied by a spectral line narrowing with a bichromatic spectrum appearing at high pump energies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An object, comprising: a substrate; and coupled to said substrate, a wavelength encoded region comprising a plurality of electromagnetic radiation emitter and amplification portions each of which is optically coupled to a scattering portion for increasing a residence time of the electromagnetic radiation within the region, said wavelength encoded region emitting, when energized by incident light, a plurality of wavelengths that identify said object. 2. An object as in claim 1, wherein at least said wavelength encoded region is covered by a transparent protective layer or coating. 3. An object as in claim 1, wherein at least said wavelength encoded region is encapsulated. 4. A system for generating and detecting an optical signal, comprising: a region comprised of an electromagnetic radiation emitter and amplification material that is optically coupled to a scattering material for increasing a residence time of electromagnetic radiation within the region; an optical source for illuminating said region with electromagnetic radiation for stimulating an emission from said emitter and amplification material such that said emitter and amplification material, in cooperation with said scattering material, provides an optical signal comprised of an emission of a spectrally collapsed band of wavelengths; and an optical detector for detecting the emission. 5. A system as in claim 4, wherein the region is disposed on individual ones of a plurality of substrate bodies for emitting an optical signal that distinguishes one substrate body from other substrate bodies, and wherein said optical detector has an output coupled to means for segregating the plurality of substrate bodies into two or more groups of substrate bodies in accordance with the detected emissions from the substrate bodies. 6. An system as in claim 5, wherein at least said region of each substrate body is covered by a protective layer or coating. 7. An system as in claim 5, wherein at least said region of each substrate body is encapsulated. 8. A method for identifying individual ones of items provided as an assemblage of items, comprising steps of: providing a wavelength encoded region that forms a portion of each item, the wavelength encoded region comprising a plurality of electromagnetic radiation emitter and amplification portions each of which is optically coupled to a scattering portion for increasing a residence time of electromagnetic radiation within the region; illuminating individual ones of the items with electromagnetic radiation for stimulating emissions from said plurality of emitter and amplification portions such that each emitter and amplification portion, in cooperation with said scattering portion, emits a distinctive narrow band of wavelengths; detecting the emission of the distinctive narrowband of wavelengths from an item; and identifying the item in accordance with the detected emission. 9. A method as in claim 8, and further comprising a step of segregating an identified item from the assemblage of items. 10. A method for generating and detecting an optical signal, comprising steps of: providing a region comprised of an electromagnetic radiation emitter and amplification material that is optically coupled to a scattering material for increasing a residence time of electromagnetic radiation within the region; illuminating the region with electromagnetic radiation for stimulating an emission from said emitter and amplification material such that said emitter and amplification material, in cooperation with said scattering material, provides an optical signal comprised of an emission of a spectrally collapsed band of wavelengths; and detecting the emission. 11. A method as in claim 10, wherein the region is provided so as to disposed on individual ones of a plurality of substrate bodies for emitting an optical signal that distinguishes one substrate body from other substrate bodies, and further comprising a step of segregating the plurality of substrate bodies into two or more groups of substrate bodies in accordance with the detected emissions from the substrate bodies. 12. A method as in claim 11, wherein at least the region of each substrate body is covered by a protective layer or coating such that the step of illuminating illuminates the region through the protective layer or coating. 13. A method as in claim 11, wherein at least the region of each substrate body is encapsulated such that the step of illuminating illuminates the region through the encapsulation. 