A supply feedstock intended for use in a workpiece finishing machine wherein individual workpieces are successively separated and presented in a predetermined fashion to an automated loading means. The feedstock includes a plurality of individual workpieces arranged in side-by-side order in the form of a continuous belt, or bandolier, of workpieces, each of the workpieces being interconnected at head and tail portions of the workpieces by integral webs, successive workpieces being trimmed from the bandolier and presented to a loading means, while the separated webs are discharged to waste.
Claims I claim: 1. A supply strip of workpieces for supplying a succession of individual workpieces to a machine which separates individual workpieces from the supply strip and presents the separated workpieces to a loading means, the machine including means for advancing said supply strip therethrough said supply strip comprising: a plurality of individual workpieces assembled in the form of a continuous belt, each workpiece having a presentation surface for engaging a presenting means of said machine, the presentation surface being defined by multiple edges of said workpiece, said individual workpieces being disposed generally adjacent another in a spaced-apart relationship and separated from each other by intervening spaces along a length of said supply strip, the workpieces being interconnected successively with one another by individual webs, the webs extending alongside said workpieces for the length of said supply strip, said webs maintaining said individual workpieces in said spaced-apart relationship, said webs including planar portions defining advancement surfaces of said supply strip which are engaged by the advancement means of said machine, said webs being disposed outside of said workpiece edges, and said web planar portions and said workpiece presentation surfaces being disposed in different planes. 2. The supply strip as defined in claim 1, wherein said planar portions include means for engaging an indexing means of said machine, said indexing means and said planar portion advancement surfaces being disposed in coincident planes. 3. The supply strip as defined in claim 1, wherein each of said webs further include a pair of leg portions extending from said web planar portions to said workpiece edges, said web planar and leg portions being disposed generally outside said workpiece edges, said workpiece presentation surfaces being disposed in a different plane than said leg portions. 4. The supply strip as defined in claim 1, wherein said webs include elongated continuous rails which extend lengthwise along said supply strip. 5. The supply strip as defined in claim 1, further including leg portions extending between said webs and said workpiece edges, said leg portions and said web planar portions being disposed in a common plane. 6. The supply strip as defined in claim 5, wherein said leg portions extend between said webs and said workpieces at an angle with respect to a longitudinal axis of said supply strip. 7. The supply strip as defined in claim 6, wherein two of said workpiece multiple edges define opposing ends of each of said workpieces and said leg portions extend between said webs and said workpiece opposing ends. 8. The supply strip as defined in claim 1, wherein each of said workpieces includes multiple sidewalls corresponding in number to said workpiece multiple edges, and said multiple sidewalls cooperate to define a machine presenting means engagement space adjacent each presentation surface of each workpiece. 9. The supply strip as defined in claim 8, wherein said workpiece sidewalls extend transversely to a longitudinal axis of said supply strip. 10. A supply feedstock for supplying workpieces in serial order to a processing machine which successively separates single workpieces from the feedstock and subsequently presents the separated workpieces to a loading means after separation, said supply feedstock comprising: a plurality of individual workpieces assembled in the form a continuous coil having two outer longitudinal edges, each individual workpiece having a machine engagement surface for engaging a transfer means of said processing machine after separation from said feedstock, said workpieces being disposed interior of the outer edges of said supply feedstock in spaced-apart order, said workpieces further being interconnected successively with one another by corresponding pairs of web portions extending only between pairs of workpieces such that each pair of web portions corresponds to a pair of workpieces within said feedstock, each of the web portions having longitudinal exterior and interior edges, said web portions including advancement surfaces for engaging a feedstock advancement means of said processing machine to sequentially advance said feedstock through said processing machine, the web portion advancement surfaces being disposed along the length of said coil between said web longitudinal interior edges and said coil outer longitudinal exterior edges exterior of said workpieces, said web portion planar advancement surfaces permitting said feedstock to be engaged by said processing machine advancement means and advanced through said processing machine irrespective of the plane of said individual workpiece engagement surfaces. 11. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 10, wherein said web portions include means for engaging an indexing means of said processing machine. 12. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 11, wherein said indexing means engaging means are disposed on said web portion advancement surfaces. 13. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 10, wherein said web portions are integrally formed with said workpieces. 14. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 10, wherein said workpieces include multiple edges which cooperatively define said workpiece machine engagement surfaces. 15. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 10, wherein said web portions lie in a different plane than said workpiece engagement surfaces. 16. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 10, wherein said web portion and said workpiece engagement surfaces lie in different, parallel planes. 17. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 10, wherein said web portions include legs which extend between said web portion interior edges and intersections of said part multiple edges. 18. The supply feedstock as defined in claim 10, wherein said workpieces include multiple edges which cooperatively define said workpiece machine engagement surfaces, said workpieces further including multiple sidewalls extending from said workpiece multiple edges, said workpiece sidewalls cooperating with said workpiece machine engagement surfaces to define partial enclosures associated with said workpieces which receive said processing machine transfer means therein. 19. The supply feedstock of claim 10, wherein said continuous coil is made of sheet metal and said workpieces are stamped and formed within said continuous coil and within said web portions by a progressive die. 20. A carrier strip of parts for use in a part processing machine which successively separates individual finished parts from the carrier strip within the part processing machine and transfers, by way of a transfer means, the separated parts to a loading station, whereupon said separated parts are successively presented to an assembling means which removes said separated parts from said part processing machine, said part processing machine further including means for sequentially advancing said carrier strip into said part processing machine, each of said parts having a usable surface which engages the transfer means of said part processing machine during and after separation from said carrier strip, said carrier strip comprising: a continuous strip of parts, the strip having a longitudinal axis and two generally parallel longitudinal outer edges, the parts being arranged in serial order along the longitudinal axis of said strip, each of said parts having multiple edges which cooperate to define a perimeter thereof, said strip further including means interconnecting said parts together extending lengthwise along said strip, the finished part interconnecting means including pairs of webs extending lengthwise only between pairs of said parts, each of said webs having opposing inner and outer edges, said webs further including planar portions disposed between said web inner and outer edges, the planar portions defining carrier strip advancement surfaces which are engaged by said part processing machine carrier strip advancement means, whereby said processing machine advancement means engages said carrier strip advancement surfaces and advances said carrier strip into said part processing machine irrespective of the plane of said part usable surfaces. 21. The carrier strip as defined in claim 20, wherein said web advancement surfaces and said part usable surfaces lie in a common plane. 22. The carrier strip as defined in claim 20, wherein said webs include leg portions extending from said web interior edges to said part edges. 23. The carrier strip as defined in claim 20, wherein said web exterior edges define portions of said longitudinal outer edges of said carrier strip and said carrier strip advancement surfaces are disposed exterior of said part edges. 24. The carrier strip as defined in claim 20, wherein said web advancement surfaces and said part usable surfaces lie in different planes. 25. The carrier strip as defined in claim 24, wherein said web advancement surfaces and said part usable surfaces lie in different, parallel planes. 26. The carrier strip as defined in claim 20, wherein said webs further include means for engaging an indexing means of said processing machine, said indexing means engaging means also being disposed within said carrier strip between said carrier strip longitudinal outer edges and said finished part edges, whereby said carrier strip also may be indexed irrespective of the plane of said part usable surfaces. 