An improved universally actuable robot assembly including a pedestal support base and a body which is swivelably mounted and rotatably driven around the base. A main support arm extends substantially horizontally from the body at a generally centralized location and terminates in a first universally swivelable member which is mounted to a first face of a vertically orientated intermediate plate member. A selected number of linearly actuable driving arms extend from the body in parallel fashion relative to the main support arm and at preselected spaced apart distances. The driving arms each include a linearly actuable cylinder for adjusting an overall length of an associated driving arm. A linearly extending engaging member is secured to and extends from a second face of the intermediate plate member and the plate member is responsive to manipulative motion of the driving arms in a universal manner about a pivot point established by the main support arm to universally position the engaging member.
Claims I claim: 1. An improved universally actuable robot assembly, comprising: a pedestal base support; a body swivelably mounted atop said pedestal base support and means for driving said body in a rotating manner about said base; a linearly extending engaging member and means for universally actuating said engaging member, said universally actuating means comprising: a main support arm extending substantially horizontally from said body at a generally centralized location, said main support arm terminating in a first universally swivelable member which connects to a first face of a generally vertically oriented intermediate plate member; and at least first and second linearly actuable driving arms extending from said body in generally parallel fashion and at spaced apart distances with respect to said main support arm and connecting via a first pair of forwardly positioned universally swivelable members to said first face of said intermediate plate member at first and second spaced locations from said first universally swivelable member of said main support arm, a first and a second linearly actuable cylinder pivotally mounted to said body by a second pair of rearwardly positioned universally swivelable members and receiving said first and second driving arms, respectively, for adjusting an overall length of said driving arms; said linearly extending engaging member fixedly secured to and extending from a second face of said intermediate plate member and said plate member being responsive to manipulative motion of said driving arms in a universal manner about a pivot point established by said main support arm to universally position said engaging member. 2. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 1, further comprising a linear carriage assembly upon which said pedestal support base is mounted, said carriage assembly further including a pair of parallel extending rails upon which said pedestal support base translates in a forward and rearward direction. 3. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 2, said linear carriage assembly further comprising a belt loop attaching to an underside of said pedestal support base and to which said pedestal support base is fixedly secured, a motor drive being in operative engagement with said carriage assembly so as to linearly actuate said carriage assembly in forward and rearward directions by a first roller member located at a forward end and a second roller member located at a rearward end thereof. 4. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 1, said means for driving said body in a rotating manner about said pedestal support base further comprising: an electric spin motor assembly encased within a motor housing and mounted to said body; a rotatably driven output shaft operatively connected to said electric motor assembly and extending downwardly from said motor housing; and a rotary engaging member mounted to an end of said output shaft, said rotary engaging member engaging an intermediate portion of said pedestal support base which is substantially circular in cross section; said rotary engaging member being rotatably driven by said electric motor assembly to rotatably reposition said body at a desired angular increment. 5. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 4, said rotary engaging member further comprising a disc-shaped member with a rubberized friction creating outer track surface, said outer track surface creating a frictional contact with a smooth circular face of said intermediate portion of said pedestal support base. 6. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 4, said rotary engaging member further comprising a first toothed gear, said intermediate portion of said pedestal support base comprising a second toothed gear which is engaged by said first gear to swivelably rotate said body relative to said base. 7. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 1, further comprising a roller-supported table unit upon which said pedestal support base is secured. 8. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 2, further comprising a programmable numerical control unit for establishing an operating sequence for at least one of said linear carriage assembly, said at least first and second linearly actuable driving arms and said means for driving said body in a rotating manner about said pedestal support base. 9. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 1, said first and second linearly actuable driving arms being positioned at evenly distanced locations at opposite sides of and below said main support arm, said assembly further comprising third and fourth linearly actuable driving arms extending from said body in generally parallel fashion and at opposite sides of and above said main support arm, said third and fourth driving arms connecting via a third pair of universally swivelable members to said first face of said intermediate plate member. 10. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 1, further comprising means for adjusting an overall length of said main support arm, said adjusting means including said main support arm comprising first and second telescoping members and a sliding track and pin arrangement enabling said second telescoping member to reposition relative to said first telescoping member so as to reposition said first universally swivelable member attaching to said intermediate plate member. 11. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 1, further comprising a gripping member secured to and extending from a projecting end of said linearly extending engaging member. 12. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 11, further comprising means for rotatably securing said gripping member to said engaging member. 13. The universally actuable robot assembly as described in claim 11, further comprising means for universally securing said gripping member to said engaging member. 