The invention relates to a floor dusting device comprising a self-contained mobile machine provided with two wheels and a suction means, a dust-container, an obstacle avoiding and detection means and an electronic control unit having a microprocessor. The device is also provided with a central device for discharging the dust, said device being stationary and associated to a guiding means enabling the mobile self-contained machine to reach the central dust and discharge device for emptying periodically the dust container. The device is also comprised of a charging unit integrated to the central device to recharge the rechargeable batteries contained in the mobile machine. The microprocessor is associated to an algorithm for avoiding the obstacles and searching the central suction device and the charging unit.
Claims I claim: 1. Arrangement for dusting a floor comprising at least a self contained mobile machine, a central stationary recharging unit and a central unit for discharging the dust the self-contained mobile machine having a casing containing therein rechargeable batteries, a means for suction cleaning for picking up dust and debris, a dust container for collecting said dust and debris, a means for detecting and avoiding an obstacle and an electronic control unit comprising a microprocessor, the central stationary recharging unit, for recharging the rechargeable batteries contained within the mobile machine, said unit having a first guide means for guiding said self-contained mobile machine to the recharging unit for a recharging operation the microprocessor being able to perform an algorithm for operating said means of avoiding the obstacles and searching for the recharging unit wherein said arrangement comprises the central unit for periodically discharging the dust from said dust container being stationary and having second guide means for guiding said self contained mobile machine to the unit for periodically emptying the dust container. 2. Arrangement for dusting a floor according to claim 1 wherein the central dust discharging unit and the recharging unit are located at the same location and integrated one with another, the first and second guide means being one and the same. 3. Arrangement for dusting a floor according to claim 2 wherein the guide means comprises a transmitter of infrared light. 4. Arrangement for dusting a floor according to claim 1 wherein the central unit for discharging the dust comprises a suction unit. 5. Arrangement for dusting a floor according to claim 1 wherein the operation for recharging the batteries is performed by induction. 6. Arrangement for dusting a floor according to claim 1 wherein the self contained mobile machine comprises a means for detecting a sudden drop in the level of the floor. 7. Arrangement for dusting a floor according to claim 1 wherein the machine comprises a means for detecting the instantaneous density of sucked dust at the nozzle and that the latter parameter is included in the algorithm for steering the machine in order to better remove a high quantity of dust from a surface. 8. Arrangement for dusting a floor according to claim 1 wherein the machine has a means for detecting the instantaneous density of sucked dust at the nozzle and that the latter parameter is included in the algorithm for adapting the path of the machine in order to better remove a high quantity of dust from a surface, and characterized in that the means for detecting the sucked dust density comprises an optical device for measuring the absorption and/or the reflection of visible light crossing the suction nozzle of the machine. 9. Mobile machine for dust suction cleaning of the floor comprising a casing and a chassis, the latter being fitted with at least: at least two side driving wheels each wheel driven by a respective motor, each motor being independently controlled in order to direct the machine a suction unit located under the casing for picking up dust and debris a dust collecting container of small capacity located in the inside of said casing for collecting said dust and debris from the suction unit a microprocessor based control unit to control the said motors a rechargeable battery for powering said motors a pick-up coil used for an induction recharging operation for the batteries a system for detecting and avoiding an obstacle a guiding system, able to direct the machine to a recharging unit wherein the mobile machine comprises also a discharging means for the dust from the dust collector, said means being automatically actuated at said recharging unit. 10. Mobile machine according to claim 9, wherein the maximum power used by the motors is 25 Watts. 11. Mobile machine according to claim 10 wherein the maximum power used by the motors is less than 12 Watts. 