A three degree of freedom parallel mechanism or linkage that couples three degree of freedom translational displacements at an endpoint, such as a handle, a hand grip, or a robot tool, to link rotations about three axes that are fixed with respect to a common base or ground link. The mechanism includes a three degree of freedom spherical linkage formed of two closed loops, and a planar linkage connected to the endpoint. The closed loops are rotatably interconnected, and made of eight rigid links connected by a plurality of single degree of freedom revolute joints. Three of these revolute joints are base joints and are connected to a common ground, such that the axis lines passing through the revolute joints intersect at a common fixed center point K forming the center of a spherical work volume in which the endpoint is capable of moving. The three degrees of freedom correspond to the spatial displacement of the endpoint, for instance. The mechanism provides a new overall spatial kinematic linkage composed of a minimal number of rigid links and rotary joints. The mechanism has improved mechanical stiffness, and conveys mechanical power bidirectionally between the human operator and the electromechanical actuators. It does not require gears, belts, cable, screw or other types of transmission elements, and is useful in applications requiring full backdrivability. Thus, this invention can serve as the mechanical linkage for actively powered devices such as compliant robotic manipulators and force-reflecting hand controllers, and passive devices such as manual input devices for computers and other systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A three degree of freedom mechanism for use as a force reflecting interface or in a three dimensional robotic manipulator, comprising: a three degree of freedom spherical linkage formed of a first and a second closed loop respectively and defining an endpoint S1 and an endpoint S; said first and second closed loops being rotatably interconnected, and made of eight rigid links connected by nine single degree of freedom revolute joints; three of said revolute joints being base joints and rotatably connected to a common base; a planar linkage connected to said endpoints S1 and S of said spherical linkage, said planar linkage including a third closed loop formed of five rigid links and revolute joints, the axis line passing through said revolute joints remaining parallel and forming a polygon; and wherein axis lines passing through said nine single degree of freedom revolute joints intersect at a common fixed center point O forming the center of a spherical work volume in which said endpoints S1 and S are capable of moving. 2. The mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said spherical linkage and said planar linkage are formed of ten rigid links and twelve revolute joints arranged in three closed chain loops of six binary links and four ternary links. 3. The mechanism according to claim 2, wherein said planar linkage further includes an endpoint D connected to said one of said revolute joints of said planar linkage. 4. The mechanism according to claim 3, wherein said center point O and said endpoint D define a virtual link VL whose length changes and permits said endpoint D to move to any point within a spherical work volume having point O as its center and VL as its radius. 5. The mechanism according to claim 4, wherein the maximum length of said virtual link VL is defined by the following equation: where R2 is the distance between an endpoint S and said center point O, and L1 is the distance between said endpoints S and D. 6. The mechanism according to claim 2, wherein said ternary links share a single revolute joint. 7. The mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said first closed loop includes four rigid links and a base link. 8. The mechanism according to claim 7, wherein said second closed loop includes four rigid links and a base link. 9. The mechanism according to claim 3, wherein said three base joints may drive and be backdriven by said endpoint D. 10. The mechanism according to claim 5, wherein said three base joints may drive and be backdriven by said endpoint S1 or said endpoint S. 11. The mechanism according to claim 9, wherein said three base joints are rotary actuators. 12. The mechanism according to claim 9, wherein said three base joints are sensors. 