An apparatus for wrapping paper rolls as a roll handler to position a roll, a wrapping mechanism that applies a side wrapper, a header applicator that places a header against an end of the roll, and a pressure mechanism with one of a heated roller or a cooled roller that presses the outer portions of the header against the side of the roll. The heat or cooling and the pressure induce rapid bonding connection of the outer portions of the header with the side of the roll. Similarly, the process includes the steps of positioning a roll header against an end of the roll and axially rotating the roll relative to a fastening mechanism that includes a deflection mechanism that folds the outer portion of the header over against the roll, an adhesive mechanism that disposes an adhesive between the outer portion of the header and the side of the roll, and one of a heated pressure mechanism or a cooled pressure mechanism that presses the outer portion of the header against the side of the roll with the heat or cooling and the pressure inducing rapid bonding connection of the outer portion of the header with the side of the roll.
Claims I claim: 1. A process for wrapping a large paper roll comprising the steps of: providing a paper roll, the paper roll having a roll surface and two opposing roll ends; providing wrapper, the wrapper having a width that is sized to extend between the roll ends; providing a header, the header having an inner portion that corresponds to the roll ends, having an outer portion that extends radially outward from the inner portion, and having an inside surface, the outer portion being notched to define an array of tabs that extend radially outward from the inner portion; providing a layer of heat activatable adhesive that is disposed on the inside surface of the tabs of the header; providing a hot air heater to heat activate the adhesive; positioning the heater relative to the roll to sequentially heat the tabs when the header is positioned against a roll end and the roll is rotated, the heater being adapted to blow hot air onto the tabs; providing a V-roller; positioning the V-roller relative to the roll to sequentially fold the tabs and press the tabs against the roll surface when a header is positioned against a roll end and the roll is rotated; wrapping the roll surface with the wrapper, the wrapper extending between the roll ends; then positioning a roll header a against a roll end after the roll surface is wrapped; then rotating the roll after a roll header is positioned against a roll end; then sequentially heat activating the adhesive on the tabs, by blowing hot air from the heater onto the tabs, when the roll is rotated; and then sequentially folding and pressing the tabs over against the wrapper on the roll surface, with the V-roller, after the adhesive is heat activated. 2. The process according to claim 1 wherein the step of providing the header further includes providing two concentric circular layers of header material, with an inner header layer that corresponds to the roll ends, having a diameter of about the diameter of the roll, and an exterior header layer having a larger diameter that extends radially outwardly beyond the periphery of the inner header layer, and that defines the tabs, the inner and the exterior header layers being laminated together by a an adhesive between the layers. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of sequentially folding and pressing the tabs against the wrapper, is performed from about a quarter of a second to about four seconds after the adhesive is heat activated. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of providing a heater to heat activate the adhesive, further includes the step of providing the heater with a number of hot air heaters. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of providing a number of hot air heaters, further includes positioning the number of hot air heaters to one of sequentially heat the tabs, and heat the tabs concurrently. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of providing a number of hot air heaters, further includes providing a heater control to selectively activate any of the number of hot air heaters. 7. An apparatus to wrap paper rolls, each paper roll having a roll surface extending between two opposing roll ends, and an axis extending through the ends, the apparatus comprising: a roller to support a paper roll and rotate the paper roll about the axis; a header applicator positioned proximal to the roller to position and hold a roll header against a roll end so the header will rotate with the paper roll; a header positioned proximal to the header applicator, the header having an inner portion that corresponds to the roll ends, having an outer portion that extends radially outward from the inner portion, and having an inside surface, the outer portion being notched to define an array of tabs that extend radially outward from the inner portion, and a layer of heat activatable adhesive disposed on the inside surface of the tabs; a hot air heater positioned proximal to the roller to heat activate the adhesive; and a V-roller positioned proximal to the roller to sequentially fold and press the tabs against the roll surface when the roll is rotated. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the V-roller is positioned relative to the hot air heater and the rotation of the roll, so the tabs are sequentially folded and pressed against the wrapper from about a quarter of a second to about four seconds after the adhesive is heat activated. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the hot air heater includes a number of hot air heaters. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the number of hot air heaters are positioned to one of sequentially heat the tabs, and heat the tabs concurrently. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the heater further includes a heater control that selectively activates any of the number of hot air heaters. 12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the header further has two concentric circular header layers, including an inner header layer that corresponds to the roll ends, and an exterior header layer that extends radially outward beyond the inner header layer to define the tabs, the inner header layer being adhered to the exterior header layer. 13. A method to wrap a paper roll with a wrapper and a header, the roll having a roll surface and two opposing roll ends, the wrapper having a width that is sized to extend between the roll ends, the header having an inner portion that corresponds to the roll ends, having an outer portion that extends radially outward from the inner portion, and having an inside surface, the outer portion being notched to define an array of tabs that extend radially outward from the inner portion, the method comprising the steps of: providing a layer of heat activatable adhesive that is disposed on the inside surface of the tabs of the header; providing a hot air heater to heat activate the adhesive, the heater being positioned relative to the roll to sequentially heat the tabs when the header is positioned against a roll end and the roll is rotated, the heater being adapted to blow hot air onto the tabs; providing a V-roller, the V-roller being positioned relative to the roll to sequentially fold the tabs and press the tabs against the roll surface when a header is positioned against a roll end and the roll is rotated; wrapping the roll surface with the wrapper, the wrapper extending between the roll ends; then positioning a roll header against a roll end after the roll surface is wrapped; then rotating the roll after a roll header is positioned against a roll end; then sequentially heat activating the adhesive on the tabs, by blowing hot air from the heater onto the tabs, when the roll is rotated; and then sequentially folding and pressing the tabs against the wrapper, with the V-roller, after the adhesive is heat activated. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of sequentially folding and pressing the tabs against the wrapper, is performed from about a quarter of a second to about four seconds after the adhesive is heat activated. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of providing a heater to heat activate the adhesive, further includes the step of providing the heater with a number of hot air heaters. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of providing a number of hot air heaters, further includes positioning the number of hot air heaters to one of sequentially heat the tabs, and heat the tabs concurrently. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of providing a number of hot air heaters, further includes providing a heater control to selectively activate any of the number of hot air heaters. 18. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of providing the header further includes providing two concentric circular header layers, including an inner header layer that corresponds to the roll ends, and an exterior header layer that extends radially outward beyond the inner header layer to define the tabs, the inner header layer being adhered to the exterior header layer. 