A multi-stage telescoping tube structure and a robot including a multi-stage telescoping tube structure. The multi-stage telescoping tube structure includes an outer tube, an intermediate tube, and an inner tube. The intermediate tube is slidably received in the outer tube, and the inner tube is slidably received in the intermediate tube. It further includes a multi-stage screw for arrangement translating rotary motion into linear movement of the tubes, and a drive means coupled to the screw arrangement. The robot further includes a support bracket, rotatably supporting the multi-stage telescoping tube structure, and an electric motor for rotating the arrangement. The structure further includes rail guides engagable with complimentary horizontally extending rails for horizontal movement of the robot.
Claims We claim: 1. A multi-stage telescoping tube structure comprising: a base tube; two telescoping concentric tubes comprising an intermediate tube and an inner tube slidably received in the base tube; a multi-stage screw arrangement connected to the tubes for translating rotary motion into linear movement of the telescoping tubes; and a motor connected to the multi-stage screw arrangement, wherein the multi-stage screw arrangement includes a hollow threaded outer shaft having a proximal end and a distal end, the motor being connected to the proximal end of the outer shaft to impart rotary motion to the outer shaft; a first nut threadedly engaged with the outer shaft and secured to the base tube; a second nut secured to the distal end of the outer shaft; a threaded inner shaft threadedly engaged with the second nut and having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of which is secured to the inner tube; a stand-off tube secured to the base tube and sized to slidably receive the electric motor for axial sliding movement of the motor in the stand-off tube; a first rail connected to one of the base and intermediate tubes, and a first complimentary bearing connected to the other one of the base and intermediate tubes; and a second rail connected to one of the intermediate and inner tubes, and a second complimentary bearing connected to the other one of the intermediate and inner tubes, so as to constrain the movement of the intermediate and inner tubes to linear movement. 2. A multi-stage telescoping tube structure of claim 1, wherein the motor is an electric motor, and the multi-stage screw arrangement is a multi-stage ball screw. 3. A multi-stage telescoping tube structure of claim 1 wherein the first nut is secured to the stand-off tube. 4. A multi-stage telescoping tube structure of claim 1 wherein a first pair of rails is secured to an inner wall of the base tube and a second pair of rails is secured to an inner wall of the intermediate tube, and complimentary bearings are secured to outer walls of the intermediate and inner tubes, respectively, to engage the rails on the respective outer and intermediate tubes. 5. A multi-stage telescoping tube structure of claim 1 wherein the motor includes a position sensor and a fail-safe brake. 6. A robot comprising: a multi-stage telescoping tube structure that includes an outer tube, an intermediate tube slidably received in the outer tube and means for linearly constraining the intermediate tube relative to the outer tube to prevent rotary motion of the intermediate tube relative to the outer tube, an inner tube slidably received in the intermediate tube and means for linearly constraining the inner tube relative to the intermediate tube to prevent rotary motion of the inner tube relative to the intermediate tube; a support bracket having bearings for rotatably supporting the multi-stage telescoping tube structure; a multi-stage screw arrangement connected to the tubes for translating rotary motion into linear movement of the intermediate tube and inner tube, wherein the multi-stage screw arrangement includes a hollow threaded outer shaft having a proximal end and a distal end, and motor means connected to the proximal end of the outer shaft for imparting rotary motion to the outer shaft; a first nut threadedly engaged with the outer shaft and secured to the outer tube; a second nut secured to the distal end of the outer shaft; and a threaded inner shaft threadedly engaged with the second nut and having a proximal end and a distal end, the distal end of which is secured to the inner tube. 7. A robot of claim 6, further comprising: an electric motor means connected to the multi-stage telescoping tube structure for rotating the multi-stage telescoping structure relative to the support bracket. 8. A robot of claim 6, further comprising rail engaging rail guides engagable with complimentary horizontally extending rails for horizontal movement of the robot. 