An automated apparatus is programmed to perform a process by arranging a sequence of first icons on a display in the order of the process, wherein the first icons represent functions of the apparatus, and wherein at least one of the first icons provides a visual representation of a function of the apparatus. Said at least one of the first icons can be expanded to show second icons that comprise the function of said at least one of the first icons, and at least one of the second icons provides a visual representation of a subfunction of the apparatus. In a preferred mode, when said at least one of the first icons is expanded, said at least one of the first icons maintains its same sequential relationship on the display to the other of the first icons in the sequence as before it was expanded.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computerized control system for operating a machine, comprising: a general-purpose computer apparatus; a display monitor coupled to the computer apparatus; an interactive display presented on the display monitor, the interactive display comprising connected pictorial icons representing sequences of actions performable by the machine; input apparatus coupled to the general-purpose computer for a user to interact with the display; and an I/O subsystem connected to the computer and connectable to the machine for sending, in response to a user initiation input, data and commands to the machine for performing the sequences of actions in the order of connection of the pictorial icons, and for receiving signals from the machine; wherein a connected sequence of icons may be collapsed in place to show a higher-level icon representing the connected sequence of icons, the higher-level icon then occupying the place of the uncollapsed connected sequence of icons, and individual higher-level icons may be expended in place to show lower-level connected sequences of icons representing individual sequences of actions making up the sequence of actions represented by the individual higher-level icon. 2. A computerized control system as in claim 1 wherein expansion in place results in a bounding box surrounding the lower-level sequence of icons, the bounding box labeled to identify the higher-level icon, and the bounding box connected in the overall sequence of icons in the place occupied by the higher-level icon before expansion in place. 3. A control system as in claim 1 wherein the pictorial icons provide pictorial association with the sequences of actions. 4. A control system as in claim 1 comprising a graphic tool enabling a user to select individual ones of the pictorial icons representing sequences of actions performable by the machine and to arrange copies of the selected pictorial icons in connected serial sequences to represent combined serial sequences of actions performable by the machine. 5. A control system as in claim 4 wherein selected pictorial icons may be connected to provide parallel paths as well as serial sequences, and a user may select alternative parallel paths to be followed in response to a command to perform the serial sequences of actions. 6. A control system as in claim 1 wherein control flow is indicated in the display as a machine operates in response to commands sent via the I/O subsystem, by highlighting individual icons while the machine is commanded to perform the sequence of actions represented by the individual icons. 7. A control system as in claim 1 wherein each connected series of icons may be collapsed in place until only one pictorial icon remains, the one pictorial icon being a top-level icon representing an overall sequence of actions performable by the machine. 8. A control system as in claim 1 wherein expansion in place is operable to the level of fundamental icons representing fundamental action sequences, fundamental action sequences arbitrarily defined in the control system as action sequences not further expandable into component actions represented by icons. 9. A control system as in claim 8 wherein a fundamental icon may be converted, in response to a user input, into an interactive input control panel having fields for accepting values for control variables specific to the fundamental action sequence represented by the fundamental icon. 10. A control system as in claim 9 wherein the interactive input control panel is connected in the icon sequence in place of the icon with which it is associated. 11. A control system as in claim 1 wherein the machine is an automated laboratory for performing chemical procedures. 12. A method for operating a machine comprising the steps of: (a) selecting pictorial icons from selectable pictorial icons in an interactive display of a computerized control system connected to the machine, individual ones of the selectable pictorial icons representing one of specific actions and sequences of actions performable by the machine; (b) arranging copies of the pictorial icons in connected sequences representing sequences of actions to be performed by the machine; (c) providing an initiation input to the computerized control system to initiate operation of the machine; and (d) controlling the order of actions of the machine by routing action commands from the computerized control system to the machine in the order of the connected sequence of icons; wherein a connected sequence of icons may be collapsed in place to show a higher-level icon representing the connected sequence of icons, the higher-level icon then occupying the place of the uncollapsed connected sequence of icons, and individual higher-level icons may be expanded in place to show lower-level connected sequences of icons representing individual sequences of actions making up the sequence of actions represented by the individual higher-level icon. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein expansion in place results in a bounding box surrounding the lower-level sequence of icons, the bounding box labeled to identify the higher-level icon, and the bounding box connected in the overall sequence of icons in the place occupied by the higher-level icon before expansion in place. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the pictorial icons provide pictorial association to the sequences of actions they represent. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising a step for selecting individual ones of the pictorial icons representing sequences of actions performable by the machine and arranging copies of the selected pictorial icons in connected serial sequences to represent combined serial sequences of actions performable by the machine. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein icons may be arranged in parallel as well as sequential paths, and comprising steps for selecting alternates among parallel paths for control to follow in response to the initiating input. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein the step for controlling the order of actions comprises highlighting icons in the connected sequence as commands related to the icons are sent to the machine, for indicating to a user which action sequence commands in the connected sequence are being sent to the machine. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein the collapsing is operable to the extent that a connected series of icons may be collapsed in place to present higher-level icons until only one pictorial icon remains, the one icon then being a top-level icon representing all of the sequence of actions represented by the sequence of uncollapsed icons. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein expansion in place is operable to the level of fundamental icons representing fundamental action sequences, fundamental action sequences arbitrarily defined in the control system as action sequences not further expandable into component actions represented by icons. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein a fundamental icon may be converted, in response to a user input, into an interactive input control panel having fields for accepting values for control variables specific to the fundamental action sequence represented by the fundamental icon. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the interactive input control panel is connected in the icon sequence in place of the icon with which it is associated. 22. The method of claim 12 wherein the machine is an automated laboratory for performing chemical procedures. 23. In a computerized control system, a robotic interface for controlling a machine, comprising: connected pictorial icons in an interactive display, individual ones of the icons representing one of an action and a sequence of actions performable by the machine, the overall sequence of icons representing an overall sequence of actions in the order of connection; a user-operable input apparatus; command code associated with each icon for commanding the machine to perform the action and sequence of actions represented by the icon; and a user-operable initiating signal for initiating operation to send command code to the machine in the order of the sequential connection of the icons; wherein a connected sequence of icons may be collapsed in place to show a higher-level icon representing the connected sequence of icons, the higher-level icon then occupying the place of the uncollapsed connected sequence of icons, and individual higher-level icons may be expended in place to show lower-level connected sequences of icons representing individual sequences of actions making up the sequence of actions represented by the individual higher-level icon. 24. A robotic interface as in claim 23 wherein expansion in place results in a bounding box surrounding the lower-level sequence of icons, the bounding box labeled to identify the higher-level icon, and the bounding box connected in the overall sequence of icons in the place occupied by the higher-level icon before expansion in place. 25. A robotic interface as in claim 23 wherein the pictorial icons provide pictorial association to the sequences of actions they represent. 26. A robotic interface as in claim 23 further comprising a graphic tool for selecting individual ones of the pictorial icons representing sequences of actions performable by the machine and arranging copies of the selected pictorial icons in connected serial sequences to represent combined serial sequences of actions performable by the machine. 27. A robotic interface as in claim 26 wherein icons may be arranged in parallel as well as sequential paths, and comprising a function for selecting alternates among parallel paths for control to follow in response to the initiating signal. 28. A robotic interface as in claim 23 wherein the robotic interface is configured for highlighting icons in the connected sequence as commands related to the icons are sent to the machine, for indicating to a user which action sequence commands in the connected sequence are being sent to the machine. 29. A robotic interface as in claim 23 wherein the operation of collapsing is operable to the extent that a connected series of icons may be collapsed in place to present higher-level icons until only one pictorial icon remains, the one icon then being a top-level icon representing all of the sequence of actions represented by the sequence of uncollapsed icons. 30. A robotic interface as in claim 23 wherein expansion in place is operable to the level of fundamental icons representing fundamental action sequences, fundamental action sequences arbitrarily defined in the control system as action sequences not further expandable into component actions represented by icons. 31. A robotic interface as in claim 30 wherein a fundamental icon may be converted, in response to a user input, into an interactive input control panel having fields for accepting values for control variables specific to the fundamental action sequence represented by the fundamental icon. 32. A robotic interface as in claim 31 wherein the interactive input control panel is connected in the icon sequence in place of the icon with which it is associated. 33. A robotic interface as in claim 23 wherein the machine is an automated laboratory for performing chemical procedures. 34. An automated machine comprising: a computerized control system having an interactive display and input apparatus, the interactive display comprising connected pictorial icons representing sequences of actions performable by the machine, the system configured to transmit commands and data associated with the pictorial icons to operate the machine in the connected order of the pictorial icons in response to an initiating input signal; actuators responsive to the commands and data transmitted from the control system for initiating specific actions performable by the machine; and sensors positioned to sense actions and configured to report action status to the control system; wherein a connected sequence of icons in the interactive display may be collapsed in place to show a higher-level icon representing the connected sequence of icons, the higher-level icon then occupying the place of the uncollapsed connected sequence of icons, and individual higher-level icons may be expended in place to show lower-level connected sequences of icons representing individual sequences of actions making up the sequence of actions represented by the individual higher-level icon. 35. An automated machine as in claim 34 wherein expansion in place results in a bounding box surrounding the lower-level sequence of icons, the bounding box labeled to identify the higher-level icon, and the bounding box connected in the overall sequence of icons in the place occupied by the higher-level icon before expansion in place. 36. An automated machine as in claim 34 wherein the pictorial icons provide pictorial association to the sequences of actions they represent. 37. An automated machine as in claim 34 further comprising a graphic tool for selecting individual ones of the pictorial icons representing sequences of actions performable by the machine and arranging copies of the selected pictorial icons in connected serial sequences to represent combined serial sequences of actions performable by the machine. 38. An automated machine as in claim 37 wherein icons may be arranged in parallel as well as sequential paths, and comprising a function for selecting alternates among parallel paths for control to follow in response to the initiating signal. 39. An automated machine as in claim 34 wherein the interactive display is configured for highlighting icons in the connected sequence as commands related to the icons are sent to the machine, for indicating to a user which action sequence commands in the connected sequence are being sent to the machine. 40. An automated machine as in claim 34 wherein the operation of collapsing is operable to the extent that a connected series of icons may be collapsed in place to present higher-level icons until only one pictorial icon remains, the one icon then being a top-level icon representing all of the sequence of actions represented by the sequence of uncollapsed icons. 41. An automated machine as in claim 34 wherein expansion in place is operable to the level of fundamental icons representing fundamental action sequences, fundamental action sequences arbitrarily defined in the control system as action sequences not further expandable into component actions represented by icons. 42. An automated machine as in claim 41 wherein a fundamental icon may be converted, in response to a user input, into an interactive input control panel having fields for accepting values for control variables specific to the fundamental action sequence represented by the fundamental icon. 43. An automated machine as in claim 42 wherein the interactive input control panel is connected in the icon sequence in place of the icon with which it is associated. 44. An automated machine as in claim 34 wherein the machine is an automated laboratory for performing chemical procedures. 45. A computer programming system comprising: an interactive display on a monitor of a general-purpose computer, the interactive display having user-selectable pictorial icons associated with specific code sequences, the icons selectable by a user and arrangeable as copies in connected sequences representing program flow; and input apparatus coupled to the general-purpose computer for a user to provide input and make selections in the interactive display; wherein individual connected sequences of icons in the interactive display may be collapsed in place to show a higher-level icon representing the collapsed connected sequence of icons, the higher-level icon then occupying the place of the uncollapsed connected sequence of icons, and individual higher-level icons may be expended in place to show lower-level connected sequences of icons. 46. A computer programming system as in claim 45 wherein, in response to a user initiation input, a program formed as a connected sequence of icons may be executed in the order of connection. 47. A computer programming system as in claim 46 wherein icons may be arranged in parallel as well as sequential paths, and comprising a function for selecting alternates among parallel paths for control to follow in response to the initiating input. 48. A computer programming system as in claim 46 wherein the interactive display is configured for highlighting icons in the connected sequence as code related to the icons is executed, for indicating to a user which code sequences are being executed. 49. A computer programming system as in claim 45 wherein expansion in place results in a bounding box surrounding the lower-level sequence of icons, the bounding box labeled to identify the higher-level icon, and the bounding box connected in the overall sequence of icons in the place occupied by the higher-level icon before expansion in place. 50. A computer programming system as in claim 45 wherein the pictorial icons provide pictorial association to the code sequences they represent. 51. A computer programming system as in claim 45 wherein the operation of collapsing is operable to the extent that a connected series of icons may be collapsed in place to present higher-level icons until only one pictorial icon remains, the one icon then being a top-level icon representing all of the sequence of code represented by a program. 52. A computer programming system as in claim 45 wherein expansion in place is operable to the level of fundamental icons representing fundamental code sequences, fundamental code sequences arbitrarily defined in the programming system as code sequences not further expandable into component code sequences represented by icons. 53. A computer programming system as in claim 52 wherein a fundamental icon may be converted, in response to a user input, into an interactive input control panel having fields for accepting values for control variables specific to the fundamental code sequence represented by the fundamental icon. 54. A computer programming system as in claim 53 wherein the interactive input control panel is connected in the icon sequence in place of the icon with which it is associated. 