A system and method for providing a tactile virtual reality to a user is present. The position and orientation of the user is utilized to generate a virtual reality force field. Forces are in turn generated on the user as a function of this force field. A six-axis manipulator is presented for providing a user interface to such a system. This manipulator provides a unique kinematic structure with two constant force springs which provide gravity compensation so that the manipulator effectively floats.
Claims While the best mode for carrying out the invention has been described in detail, those familiar with the art to which this invention relates will recognize various alternative designs and embodiments for practicing the invention as defined by the following claims: 1. A method of controlling a force-feedback interface device having one or more axes, comprising the steps of: establishing a multi-layer communication arrangement including a first iterative loop and a control process accessible by the first loop; then, through each pass of the first loop, performing the following steps: a) collecting position values associated with each axis of the device; b) determining a force contribution for each axis of the device in accordance with the control process; and b) outputting the force contribution to each respective axis of the device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the control process is accessed by the first loop through a shared memory. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the control process is accessed by the first loop through a communications path. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the control process is accessed by the first loop over a network. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first loop and the control process are synchronized. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first loop and the control process operate concurrently. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the control process is associated with an applications layer. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining a force contribution for each axis includes the step of estimating device velocity based upon the collected position values. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining a force contribution for each axis includes the step of estimating device acceleration based upon the collected position values. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining a force contribution for each axis includes the step of computing a translation based upon the collected position values. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining a force contribution for each axis includes the step of computing a rotation based upon the collected position values. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining a force contribution for each axis includes the step of scaling one or more of the position values. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the control process accessable by the first loop is in the form of a second iterative loop used to poll for, and execute, external command inputs. 14. A method of controlling a force-feedback interface device having one or more axes, comprising the steps of: establishing a first iterative loop having a time interval related to device responsiveness; installing a control function accessible by the first loop; then, through each pass of the first loop, performing the following steps: a) collecting position values associated with each axis of the device; b) computing estimates of device velocity and acceleration based upon the collected position values; c) determining a force contribution for each axis of the device in accordance with the installed control function; and d) outputting the force contribution to each respective axis of the device. 15. The method of claim 14, further including the step of performing a set of translations, rotations and scales on the collected position values. 16. The method of claim 15, further including the step of applying the force contributions to a running sum of other such contributions obtained through the installed control function. 17. A method of controlling a force-feedback interface device having one or more axes, comprising the steps of: establishing a multi-layer communication architecture including first and second iterative loops, the second loop providing for the insertion of multiple, superimposed control functions; initializing the first iterative loop with stored configuration parameters; then, through each pass of the first loop: a) determining a force contribution for each axis of the device in accordance with one or more of the control functions; and b) outputting the force contribution to each respective axis of the device. 18. The method of claim 17, further including the step of defining a time interval associated with the first loop relating to device responsiveness. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the first and second loops cooperate to service master/slave external commands. 20. A system for interacting with a simulated environment, comprising: a multi-axis joystick; an actuator associated with each axis; an encoder for sensing the position and movement of the joystick; a programmed computer for: a) storing data representative of the simulated environment including one or more virtual objects, b) determining user interactions with the objects based upon the position and movement of the joystick, and c) generating force-field values as a function of the interactions; and a controller interfaced to the actuators and to the encoder for: a) communicating-the position and movement of the joystick, as sensed by the encoder, to the programmed computer, b) receiving the force-field values from the programmed computer, and c) delivering a force command to the actuators as a function of the force-field values. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the movement of the joystick includes the velocity and acceleration of the joystick. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the encoder is an optical encoder. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein the actuator associated with each axis of the joystick is a back-drivable motor. 24. The system of claim 20, wherein the controller is further operative to communicate information regarding power consumption to the programmed computer, and wherein the programmed computer is operative to adjust one or more of the force-field values in response to the power consumption. 