In a vacuum processing chamber, a drive assembly for moving an article such as a substrate, clamp or pin lifter. The drive assembly includes at least one cable actuated assembly having a pin and housing mechanically coupled to a cable and sleeve, respectively, so that movement of the cable within the sleeve causes the pin to move within the housing. The other ends of the cable and sleeve are connected to a cable linkage box which is driven by an actuator to move the cable within the sleeve. A plurality of cable actuated assemblies can be attached to a substrate support at desired locations such that the pins extend through holes in the substrate support. The cables to which the pins are coupled can be simultaneously driven by the actuator to lift substrates off of the substrate support.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A drive assembly for moving an article in a vacuum chamber, the drive assembly comprising: a pin engageable with the article so as to move the article in the vacuum chamber, the pin being slidably supported within a housing; a flexible cable and sleeve assembly comprising a cable slidable within a sleeve surrounding the cable, the cable having an end mechanically coupled to the pin and the sleeve having an end mechanically coupled to the housing; and an actuator engaged with the cable so as to move the cable with respect to the sleeve and move the pin with respect to the housing. 2. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising an adapter rod connected to the pin and the cable, the adapter rod being slidably supported in the housing, the adapter rod including a recess therein and one end of the pin being held by a friction fit within the recess. 3. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising an adapter rod and bellows, the adapter rod being slidably mounted within the housing and connected to the pin, the bellows having a first end and a second end, the first end of the bellows being mechanically coupled to the adapter rod, and the second end of the bellows being mechanically coupled to the housing. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 5. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a mechanical position sensor which senses a position of the pin with respect to the housing, the sensor being located at a location remote from the housing. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the pin consists essentially of a dielectric ceramic material. 7. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the housing comprises a cylinder having a bushing slidably mounted therein, the bushing being connected between the pin and the cable such that movement of the cable drives the pin into and out of the housing. 8. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sleeve and the cable consist essentially of dielectric materials. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the article comprises a substrate and the housing is attached to a substrate support which supports the substrate when the pin is in a retracted position, the actuator being remote from the substrate support. 10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the article comprises a substrate and the housing is attached to a substrate support which supports the substrate when the pin is in a retracted position, the actuator being immovably fixed in position with respect to the vacuum chamber. 11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the actuator includes means for adjusting slack and tension on the cable. 12. A drive assembly for moving an article in a vacuum chambers, the drive assembly comprising: a pin engageable with the article so as to move the article in the vacuum chamber, the pin being slidably supported within a housing; a cable and sleeve assembly comprising a cable slidable within a sleeve surrounding the cable, the cable having an end mechanically coupled to the pin and the sleeve having an end mechanically coupled to the housing; and an actuator engaged with the cable so as to move the cable with respect to the sleeve and move the pin with respect to the housing, the article comprising a clamp, a substrate, lift pin assembly or temperature probe and the actuator being located outside the vacuum chamber. 13. A method of moving an article in a vacuum chamber including a drive assembly comprising a pin, a housing, a flexible cable, a sleeve and an actuator, the pin being slidably mounted within the housing and engageable with the article, the cable being coupled to the pin and the actuator, and the sleeve being coupled to the housing, the method comprising: moving the article within the vacuum chamber by activating the actuator, the actuator causing the cable to slide within the sleeve and the pin to slide within the housing such that the pin moves the article. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the article comprises a substrate on a substrate support, the pin extending through a hole in the substrate support and a free end of the pin being engageable with a lower surface of the substrate, the method including moving the free end of the pin into engagement with the substrate while maintaining a vacuum seal between the housing and the substrate support. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the cable is moved by applying a pressurized gas to the actuator. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising detecting a position of the cable with respect to the sleeve, the detecting being carried out by a sensor supported by the actuator. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the article comprises a substrate and the housing is attached to a substrate support which supports the substrate when the pin is in a retracted position, the actuator being remote from the substrate support, the substrate being moved by sliding the cable within the sleeve while maintaining the actuator fixed in position with respect to the vacuum chamber. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the actuator includes means for adjusting slack and tension on the cable. 19. A method of moving an article in a vacuum chamber including a drive assembly comprising a pin, a housing, a cable, a sleeve and an actuator, the pin being slidably mounted within the housing and engageable with the article, the cable being coupled to the pin and the actuator, and the sleeve being coupled to the housing, the method comprising: moving the article within the vacuum chamber by activating the actuator, the actuator causing the cable to slide within the sleeve and the pin to slide within the housing such that the pin moves the article, the actuator being located outside of the vacuum chamber and the cable including one end thereof attached to the actuator, the article being moved by pushing and pulling the cable with the actuator. 20. A lift pin assembly for lifting a substrate in a vacuum chamber, the lift pin assembly comprising: a plurality of flexible cable actuated assemblies, each of the cable actuated assemblies including a pin, a housing, a cable, and a sleeve, the pin being engageable with the substrate so as to lift the substrate in the vacuum chamber, the pin being slidably supported within the housing, the cable being slidable within the sleeve, the cable having a first end mechanically coupled to the pin and the sleeve having a first end mechanically coupled to the housing; and an actuator engaged with each cable so as to simultaneously move the pin of each of the cable actuated assemblies and lift or lower the substrate. 21. The assembly of claim 20, wherein each of the cable actuated assemblies further comprises an adapter rod connected to the pin and the cable, the adapter rod being slidably supported in the housing, the adapter rod including a recess therein and one end of the pin being held by a friction fit within the recess. 22. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the article comprises a substrate and the housing is attached to a substrate support which supports the substrate when the pin is in a retracted position, the actuator being remote from the substrate support. 23. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the article comprises a substrate and the housing is attached to a substrate support which supports the substrate when the pin is in a retracted position, the actuator being immovably fixed in position with respect to the vacuum chamber. 24. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the actuator includes means for adjusting slack and tension on each of the cables. 25. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the pin consists essentially of a dielectric ceramic material, the cable consists essentially of a dielectric polymer material and the sleeve consists essentially of a dielectric polymer material. 26. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the cable actuated assemblies are attached to a substrate support in the vacuum chamber, the substrate support including an electrode which provides an RF bias to a substrate supported on the substrate during processing of the substrate, the pin of each of the cable actuated assemblies extending through a hole in a portion of the electrode adjacent an outer periphery thereof. 27. A lift pin assembly for lifting a substrate in a vacuum chamber, the lift pin assembly comprising: a plurality of cable actuated assemblies, each of the cable actuated assemblies including a pin, a housing, a cable, and a sleeve, the pin being engageable with the substrate so as to lift the substrate in the vacuum chamber, the pin being slidably supported within the housing, the cable being slidable within the sleeve, the cable having a first end mechanically coupled to the pin and the sleeve having a first end mechanically coupled to the housing; and an actuator engaged with each cable so as to simultaneously move the pin of each of the cable actuated assemblies and lift or lower the substrate, each of the cable actuated assemblies being attached to a substrate support within the vacuum chamber and the actuator being located outside the vacuum chamber. 28. A lift pin assembly for lifting a substrate in a vacuum chamber, the lift pin assembly comprising: a plurality of cable actuated assemblies, each of the cable actuated assemblies including a pin, a housing, a cable, and a sleeve, the pin being engageable with the substrate so as to lift the substrate in the vacuum chamber, the pin being slidably supported within the housing, the cable being slidable within the sleeve, the cable having a first end mechanically coupled to the pin and the sleeve having a first end mechanically coupled to the housing; and an actuator engaged with each cable so as to simultaneously move the pin of each of the cable actuated assemblies and lift or lower the substrate, the vacuum chamber comprising a plasma chamber and the cable actuated assemblies being attached to a substrate support having holes extending therethrough, the pin of each of the cable actuated assemblies being located in a respective one of the holes with a clearance therebetween, the clearance being small enough to minimize arcing during processing of a substrate clamped to the substrate support, and the actuator being located outside the plasma chamber. 