The invention is directed to manipulator assembly (2) for holding and manipulating a surgical instrument (14) in a telerobotic system. The assembly comprises a base (6) fixable by passive or power driven positioning devices to a surface, such as an operating table, and an instrument holder (4) movably mounted on the base. The instrument holder comprises a chassis (6) and an instrument support (70) movably mounted on the body and having an interface engageable with the surgical instrument to releasably mount the instrument to the instrument holder. A drive assembly (7) is operatively coupled to the instrument holder for providing the instrument with at least two degrees of freedom. The instrument holder is separable from the base and the drive assembly so that the holder can be sterilized. The assembly further includes a force sensing element (52) mounted distal to the holder and the drive assembly for detecting forces exerted on the surgical instrument and providing feedback to the surgeon. The assembly is attached to a remote center positioner (300) for constraining the instrument to rotate about a point coincident with the entry incision and an inclinometer (350) for preventing gravitational forces acting on the system's mechanisms from being felt by the surgeon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for manipulating a surgical instrument in a sterile surgical field comprising: a support base fixable to a surface; a sterilizable instrument holder movably mounted on said support base and adapted to releasably hold the surgical instrument, the instrument holder comprising: a body; and an instrument support movably mounted on said body and having an interface engageable with the surgical instrument to releasably mount the instrument to said instrument holder; a drive assembly operatively coupled to said instrument holder for providing said instrument with at least two degrees of freedom, said drive assembly comprising: a first controllable motor operatively connected to move said instrument support; and a second controllable motor operatively connected to move said instrument holder body relative to said support base; a coupling mechanism for removably attaching said instrument holder to said support base and said drive assembly, wherein said instrument holder is separable from said support base and said drive assembly for sterilization of said instrument holder between surgical procedures; wherein said support base comprises first and second spaced support shafts and said instrument holder comprises first. and second mounts slidably mounted to the first and second support shafts; wherein said instrument holder body further includes an arm removably coupled to said second controllable motor for axial movement of said first and second mounts along said first and second support shafts thereby moving said instrument in an axial, direction; wherein said support base comprises a frame having distal and proximal elongate support members, said first and second shafts each having first and second ends rotatably supported within said distal and proximal support members; wherein said coupling mechanism comprises a disconnecting means for separating said spaced support shafts from said support base to allow said instrument holder to be removed from said support base and said drive assembly; and wherein said disconnecting means comprises an annular groove in each of the spaced support shafts and an internal grove in each of said mounts in communication with said annular groove, said disconnecting means further including a spring clip positioned within said annular and internal grooves so to prevent axial movement of said shafts relative to said mounts, said spring clip having an opening for allowing release of said shafts from said mounts when a threshold axial forces is applied to said shafts. 2. An instrument holder adapted to be driven by a drive assembly coupled to a robotic control mechanism for manipulation of a surgical instrument of the type having a shaft with an axially fixed mounting means, an end effector and a movable end effector actuator, the instrument holder comprising: a body having an axial passage for receiving said instrument and at least one mount for movably coupling said body to the drive assembly; an instrument support having an axial passage for receiving said instrument and a first interface engageable with the axially fixed mounting means of the instrument for releasably mounting the instrument to said instrument holder, said instrument support being rotatably coupled to said body and having a first coupling structured and arranged to connect said instrument support to the drive assembly for rotating said instrument; an actuator driver having an axial passage for receiving said instrument, a second interface engageable with the end effector actuator of the instrument and a second coupling for connecting said actuator driver to the drive assembly, said actuator driver further comprising means for translating rotational movement of the second coupling into axial displacement of the second interface relative to said body to actuate the end effector of the instrument. 3. The holder of claim 2 wherein said translating means comprises a first portion rotatably mounted to said body and a second portion axially movable with respect to said body, said first portion being coupled to said second portion such that rotation of said first portion causes axial displacement of said second portion and the second interface therewith. 4. The holder of claim 3 wherein said second coupling is an annular gear member structured and arranged for coupling to a motor shaft for rotation of said first portion of said actuator driver. 5. The holder of claim 3 wherein said second portion of said actuator driver comprises a carriage assembly movably mounted to said body and an annular collar releasably coupled to said end effector actuator of said instrument and rotatably coupled to said actuator carriage assembly. 6. The holder of claim 5 wherein said body includes opposing axial slots, said carriage assembly including a first pair of rotatable members disposed within said axial slots to prevent rotation of said actuator carriage assembly with respect to said instrument holder and to allow axial movement with respect to said holder. 7. The holder of claim 6 wherein said carriage assembly further includes a second pair of rotatable members disposed radially inward from said first pair of rotatable members, said first portion of said actuator driver comprising a concentric helical actuator with a pair of helical slots for receiving said second pair of rotatable members so that rotation of said helical actuator axially displaces said carriage assembly and said annular collar with respect to said instrument holder. 8. The holder of claim 2 wherein said first coupling comprises an annular gear member structured and arranged for coupling to a motor shaft for rotation of said instrument support. 