A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto novel trays for improved processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for processing wafers, comprising: loading wafers held in a wafer carrier into an enclosed work space; transferring wafers from said wafer carrier to a wafer tray to produce a loaded wafer tray having a plurality of wafers positioned thereon; said wafer tray providing fluid access to surfaces of the wafers positioned thereon for processing; storing unloaded wafer trays upon a first carriage for use in said step of transferring wafers: moving the first carriage from a carrier load position wherein said wafer carrier loaded with wafers is loaded onto the first carriage, to a tray pick position: elevating a stored unloaded wafer tray from the first carriage: moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said step of transferring: conveying the loaded wafer tray to and between multiple processing units which have access openings to said enclosed work space. 2. A method for processing wafers according to claim 1 wherein said step of transferring wafers includes: positioning the wafer carrier containing the wafers; moving the wafer tray upwardly and through an opening formed in the wafer carrier; lifting wafers from the wafer carrier onto the wafer tray. 3. A method for processing wafers according to claim 1 and further comprising placing the loaded wafer tray at a loaded tray holding station. 4. A method for processing wafers according to claim 1 wherein said step of loading includes depositing the wafer carrier upon a carriage and moving the wafer carrier into the enclosed work space. 5. A method for processing wafers according to claim 1 wherein said step of loading includes moving a first carriage from a carrier load position to a transfer position. 6. A method for processing wafers, comprising: loading wafers held in a wafer carrier into an enclosed work space; transferring wafers from said wafer carrier to a wafer tray to produce a loaded wafer tray having a plurality of wafers positioned thereon; said wafer tray providing fluid access to surfaces of the wafers positioned thereon for processing; conveying the loaded wafer tray to and between multiple processing units which have access openings to said enclosed work space; storing unloaded wafer trays upon a first carriage for use in said step of transferring wafers; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position wherein said wafer carrier loaded with wafers is loaded onto the first carriage, to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded wafer tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a wafer tray on said elevator through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said step of transferring. 7. A method for processing wafers according to claim 6 and further comprising: after said step of transferring wafers, moving a second carriage to an extended tray load position; placing the loaded wafer tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said second carriage. 8. A method for processing wafers supplied upon a wafer carrier comprising: positioning a wafer tray on a movable head; positioning the wafer carrier containing the wafers in a transfer position; moving the wafer tray upwardly and through an opening formed in the wafer carrier; transferring wafers from the wafer carrier onto the wafer tray to produce a loaded wafer tray; conveying the loaded wafer tray free from the wafer carrier to at least one processing unit; processing the loaded wafer tray in said at least one processing unit. 9. A method for processing wafers according to claim 8 and further comprising placing the loaded wafer tray at a loaded tray holding station capable of inventorying a plurality of loaded wafer trays. 10. A method for processing wafers according to claim 8 and further comprising storing unloaded wafer trays for use in said step of positioning the wafer tray on a movable head. 11. A method for processing wafers according to claim 8 and further comprising: storing unloaded wafer trays upon a carriage for use in said step of positioning the wafer tray on a movable head; moving the carriage into a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded wafer tray from said carriage; moving the carriage from the tray pick position to a transfer position wherein said carriage is ready for said step of transferring. 12. A method for processing wafers according to claim 8 and further comprising: storing unloaded wafer trays upon a first carriage for use in said step of positioning the wafer tray on a movable head; elevating a stored unloaded wafer tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; said head being a part of said elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a wafer tray on said elevator through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said step of transferring. 13. A method for processing wafers according to claim 8 and further comprising: storing unloaded wafer trays upon a first carriage for use in said step of positioning the wafer tray on a movable head; elevating a stored unloaded wafer tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; said head being a part of said elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass through position; lowering a wafer tray on said elevator through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said step of transferring; after said transferring wafers, moving a second carriage to an extended tray load position; placing the loaded wafer tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said second carriage. 14. A method for wafer tray and wafer tray engagement tool interaction, comprising: holding wafers in a wafer tray having at least one longitudinal engagement feature which extends along the wafer tray in the form of at least one recessed channel; positioning a wafer engagement tool adjacent to said wafer tray; said wafer engagement tool having a main part and an engagement extension connected to the main part so as to be cantilevered therefrom; said engagement extension defining at least one engagement edge; moving the wafer engagement tool longitudinally along said at least one recessed channel; engaging said wafer engagement tool with the wafer tray to prevent relative longitudinal motion therebetween; lifting the wafer engagement tool and engaged wafer tray; moving the wafer engagement tool and engaged wafer tray to a processing station; orienting the angular orientation of the wafer tray to enable the wafer tray to be positioned into a processing chamber forming part of the processing station; loading the wafer tray into the processing chamber by sliding the wafer tray into an engaged relationship with complementary parts contained in a rotor mounted for rotation within the processing chamber, said complementary parts including wafer tray engagement features which are at least partially received within said recessed channels. 15. A method for processing wafers, comprising: opening an enclosure door forming part of an enclosure envelope, said enclosure envelope providing a substantially enclosed working space therewithin; loading a wafer carrier containing a plurality of wafers through the enclosure door; closing the enclosure door; positioning the wafer carrier containing the plurality of wafers in a transfer position; transferring the plurality of wafers from the wafer carrier by engaging an array of wafer receivers directly against the wafers to support the plurality of wafers upon the array of wafer receivers; conveying the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers away from the wafer carrier and onto at least one processing station having an access opening which opens to the enclosed working space; processing the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers within said at least one processing station. 16. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said array of wafer receivers is a tray having an array of wafer receivers formed therein. 17. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 and further comprising: conveying the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers to at least two processing stations. 18. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 and further comprising: conveying the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers to at least two processing stations; thereafter conveying the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers to an interface section; thereafter transferring the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers to a wafer carrier. 19. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 and further comprising: conveying the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers to at least two processing stations; thereafter conveying the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers to an interface section; thereafter transferring the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers to a wafer carrier to provide a wafer carrier containing processed wafers; thereafter opening an enclosure door; removing the wafer carrier containing processed wafers from the enclosure. 20. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said at least one processing station includes a rotor upon which the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers rotates during at least a portion of the processing step. 21. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said array of wafer receivers is a tray having an array of wafer receivers formed therein. 22. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said step of transferring the plurality of wafers includes: extending the array of wafer receivers upwardly and through an opening formed in the wafer carrier; lifting wafers from the wafer carrier onto the array of wafer receivers. 23. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 and further comprising placing the plurality of wafers supported by the array of wafer receivers at an inventory station which can hold more than one such array of wafer receivers with the plurality of wafers supported thereon. 24. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said step of loading a wafer carrier includes depositing the wafer carrier upon a carriage and moving the wafer carrier into the enclosed work space upon said carriage. 25. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said step of loading includes moving a first carriage from a carrier load position to within the working space. 26. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said array of wafer receivers is a tray having an array of wafer receivers formed therein, and further comprising: storing unloaded wafer trays upon a first carriage for use in said step of transferring wafers; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position wherein said wafer carrier loaded with wafers is loaded onto the first carriage, to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded wafer tray from the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said transferring. 27. A method for processing wafers according to claim 15 wherein said array of wafer receivers is a tray having an array of wafer receivers formed therein, and further comprising: storing unloaded wafer trays upon a first carriage for use in said step of transferring wafers; moving the first carriage from a carrier load position wherein said wafer carrier loaded with wafers is loaded onto the first carriage, to a tray pick position; elevating a stored unloaded wafer tray from the first carriage onto an elevator; moving the first carriage from the tray pick position to a pass-through position; lowering a wafer tray on said elevator through a pass-through opening in the first carriage; moving the first carriage from the pass-through position to a transfer position wherein said first carriage is ready for said step of transferring. 28. A method for processing wafers according to claim 27 and further comprising: after said step of transferring the plurality of wafers, moving a second carriage to an extended tray load position; placing the loaded wafer tray at a loaded tray holding station upon said second carriage. 