A pickup truck conversion hidden storage/utility system is incorporated in the bed thereof without altering the bed's external appearance. The storage system is located adjacent the wheel well sections of the bed, and uses hinges to open and close the fender/side panel of the bed. Since the storage system does not alter the truck's external appearance, it reduces the attraction for theft. Also, since the storage area does not extend inwardly beyond the conventional wheel wells, the storage system leaves most of the truck bed free for use. The hidden storage/utility system is incorporated into the bed by an initial fabrication method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of installing a hidden storage system in a vehicle bed having a predetermined external appearance during fabrication thereof without altering the external appearance, comprising: assembling components to form a vehicle bed having side panels mounted on the exterior of the bed and at least one storage box extending along substantially the length of the bed, each side panel extending continuously along substantially the entire length of the bed, and horizontally hinging, at an upper portion thereof, at least one of said side panels along substantially the entire length of the bed such that substantially the entire length of the at least one side panel can be raised or lowered to expose or cover an interior of the storage box. 2. The method of claim 1, additionally including prefabricating the exterior side panels and the at least one storage box utilized to form the bed. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of assembling and hinging are carried out on an assembly line. 4. The method of claim 1, additionally including providing a lock and latch mechanism for the at least one side panel. 5. The method of claim 1, additionally including providing at least one shelf in the storage box. 6. The method of claim 1, additionally including assembling an additional storage box which extends along the length of the vehicle bed,and hinging another of said side panels along substantially the entire length of the bed so that the another side panel can be raised or lowered to expose or cover an interior of additional storage box. 7. A method for fabricating a storage system for a vehicle bed having a predetermined exterior appearance and having side panels mounted on the exterior of the bed without substantially altering the external appearance of the bed, the bed being adapted to be mounted on wheels, each side panel extending continuously along substantially the entire length of the bed, the method comprising: forming a bed including a storage box on each side of the bed adjacent the side panels of the bed; forming each storage box to include side walls and at least one end wall enclosing an interior; hinging each of the side panels horizontally at an upper portion thereof along substantially the entire length of the bed so that substantially the entire length of each side panel can be raised to expose the interior of the adjacent storage box and lowered to cover the interior of the adjacent storage box without substantially altering the external appearance of the side panels when the side panels lowered; and providing each of the hinged side panels with a lock and latching mechanism for releasably securing the hinged side panels to the bed. 8. The method of claim 7, additionally including providing the interior of at least one of the storage boxes with at least one movable shelf. 9. The method of claim 7, additionally including prefabricating the storage boxes, the side panels and the lock and latching mechanisms and wherein the operations of forming of the bed and storage boxes, hinging of the side panels, and providing the lock and latching mechanism are carried out by assembling the above prefabricated components. 10. The method of claim 7, additionally including providing means for retaining the hinged side panels open. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein providing the retaining means comprise fluid containing reciprocal members. 12. The method of claim 7, additionally including forming the bed to include wheel wells, and forming each storage box to fit at least over the wheel wells of the bed. 13. In a method for assembling a bed for a vehicle comprising assembling a floor, a front panel, two side panels mounted on the exterior of the bed and a tail gate, each side panel extending continuously along substantially the entire length of the bed, improvement comprising providing hidden storage in at least one of the side panels of the bed by: providing a storage box having an opening therein, positioning the storage box in the bed such that the opening is adjacent at least one of the two side panels, hinging horizontally at an upper portion thereof at least the one side panels adjacent the storage box so that moving substantially the entire length of the hinged at least one side panel exposes or covers substantially an entire interior of the storage box adjacent thereto, and providing entirely unexposed latching means for the hinged side panel. 14. The method of claim 13, further including positioning an additional storage box having an opening in the bed adjacent the other side panel and hinging the other side panel adjacent the additional storage box, and wherein the step of providing latching means further included providing latching means for the other hinged side panel. 15. The method of claim 13, additionally including forming the opening in the storage box to be of a longitudinally extending configuration. 16. The method of claim 13, additionally including forming the at least one hinged side panel prior to assembling the bed. 17. The method of claim 13, additionally including providing locking means for the at least one hinged side panel. 18. The method of claim 13, additionally including providing means for retaining the at least one side panel in an open position. 19. The method of claim 13, additionally including providing the floor of the bed with wheel wells, and forming the storage box to fit over the wheel wells and along the floor of the bed. 20. A method for fabricating a storage/utility system in a vehicle bed without substantially altering an external appearance thereof, comprising: forming a bed to include a storage box on each side of the bed, the storage box having an opening extending along substantially the length of the bed; forming at an upper portion of the bed a pair of horizontally hinged side panels, each side panel extending continuously along substantially the entire length of the bed such that the pair of hinged side panels are mounted on the exterior of the bed, extend along substantially the entire length of the bed and can be opened or closed to expose or cover an interior of the storage boxes; and providing latching and lock means for the side panels. 21. The method of claim 20, additionally including forming wheel wells on each side of the bed, and forming storage boxes to fit over the wheel wells. 