A magnetron sputtering process and apparatus for cleaning a target, thereby eliminating back sputtered particles from the target surface and effecting uniform erosion of the target is provided. A deposition chamber comprises a magnetron assembly, a shutter mechanism, D.C. and R.F. power sources, and means for alternatively switching the power sources for sputter deposition and target cleaning. As an example, application of D.C. power sputters target material in regions located between the poles of the magnets of the magnetron assembly. At selected intervals during which a processed substrate is removed from the chamber, R.F. power is then applied to the chamber to establish a plasma which sputters the target in lesser eroded regions and removes previously deposited back sputtered particles thereon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of intermittently cleaning a target source during material deposition in a sputter deposition chamber comprising; a) providing a vacuum chamber including a planar cathodic target, anodic sidewalls and base, and a substrate support member in parallel alignment with the target; b) applying a magnetic force perpendicular to the planar target; c) applying one of a D.C. or an R.F. power supply between the target and base and sidewalls to cause sputtering of the target material, in an erosion area, onto a substrate positioned on the pedestal; and d) applying the alternative power supply selected in step C, between the target and base and sidewalls to sputter the target in areas reciprocal to those areas in which erosion was generated under the first power supply thereby causing removal of back sputtered material from the target and uniform erosion of the target throughout the process run. 2. The method of claim 1, further including the step of partitioning the substrate support member from the target source so as to isolate the target and base and sidewalls from the substrate support member. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein a shutter plate isolates the pedestal from the target. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the steps of partitioning the pedestal and applying the alternative power supply occur during an interim period required to remove one substrate and introduce a subsequent substrate. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the application of the alternative power supply occurs for a period of less than 60 seconds. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said power supply selected in step c provides a D.C. voltage and said alternative power supply of step d provides power in the radio frequency range. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said power supply selected in step c provides power in the radio frequency range, and said power supply of step d provides power a D.C. voltage. 8. A method of cleaning a target surface in a sputtering source, comprising: providing a deposition chamber including a support member therein; providing a target biased by a magnetic field in said chamber; sputtering target material onto a substrate positioned within said chamber by applying D.C. power across an anode and said target biased as a cathode; removing said substrate from said chamber; partitioning said support member from the target surface to isolate the cathodic target from said support member; applying R.F. power across said anode and said target biased as said cathode; de-partitioning the support member from the target; and positioning another substrate onto the support member. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein a shutter plate partitions off said support member from said target. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the steps of partitioning off said support member and applying R.F. power occur during a time period required to transport one substrate out of said chamber and transport a new substrate into said chamber. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the time period required to transport one substrate out of said chamber and transport a new substrate into said chamber is less than 60 seconds. 12. A sputtering process, comprising: applying a D.C. power between an anode and a target forming a cathode in a chamber; generating a glow discharge of free ions; providing a magnetic field to guide the free ions onto the target thereby generating free particles of target material which are deposited onto a substrate; providing a disposable surface within said chamber below the target, applying R.F. power between the anode and the target forming the cathode to erode the target near the poles of the magnetic field; moving the disposable surface from below the target; and re-applying D.C. power between said anode and said target forming said cathode. 13. The process of claim 12 wherein the steps of providing a disposable surface within the chamber and applying R.F. power occur while a first substrate is removed from the chamber and a second substrate is introduced into the chamber. 14. A process for cleaning a target in a D.C. powered sputtering source, comprising employing a magnetic source having at least two poles periodically partitioning off a deposition chamber to isolate the target with a shutter means; and applying R.F. power between an anode and said target biased as a cathode to remove any back sputtered material which may have been deposited between the poles of a magnetic field provided to guide free ions onto the target. 15. A method of cleaning a target in a D.C. powered sputtering source including a magnetron assembly, comprising: periodically isolating said target in said sputtering source; and providing R.F. power between an anode and a target forming a cathode. 16. A magnetron sputtering apparatus comprising: a) an evacuable chamber having a means of introducing gases, anodic sidewalls and base, and a pedestal support for holding a semiconductor substrate for processing; b) a planar cathodic target within the chamber, a front face of the target being in parallel to the pedestal support; c) partitioning means disposed between the target and pedestal to isolate the pedestal from communication with the chamber; d) magnetic source means for generating a magnetic field over the surface of the target; e) an alternative D.C. or R.F. voltage source means to generate an electric field over the front surface of the target; and f) switching means to alternate a D.C. or R.F. voltage supply to the planar cathodic target and the anodic sidewalls and base in the chamber. 17. A sputtering apparatus, comprising: an anode; a target arranged opposite to said anode which is biased as a cathode; means for generating a magnetic field adjacent said target; partitioning means disposed in proximity to said target, said partitioning means isolating a portion of the sputtering apparatus including the target; and switching means to alternate power supply between D.C. and R.F. power to said anode and said cathode. 18. A method of cleaning a target in situ, comprising: providing a deposition chamber wherein deposition of a target material onto a substrate occurs under a first power source; isolating the target from a substrate support member located in said chamber; providing a second power source to sputter the target material onto a shutter means during an interim period required to remove one substrate from the chamber and introduce a second substrate into the chamber. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said first power source supplies a D.C. voltage and said second power source supplies power in the radio frequency range. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said first power source supplies power in the radio frequency range, and said second power source supplies a D.C. voltage. 