A coordinated cluster-tool energy distribution system provides a systems level approach to supplying all process energy needs for such industrial applications as those found in the semiconductor manufacturing industry, e.g. a single-wafer or multiple chamber processing chamber. The system is preferably provided as an integrated whole, rather than as a piece-meal collection of various energy distribution elements. The system comprises a shared DC bus that provides load diversity at lower energy levels, eliminates power supply components and/or minimizes the operating capacity of such components, and provides a lower installed cost; a common rectifier/filter or switcher power supply front end that lowers overall system cost, eliminates redundant power supply components, and provides a smaller system form factor; and (optionally) an energy storage device, such as a battery, capacitor, or flywheel, that reduces peak demand, thereby allowing smaller feeder circuits and a smaller energy source, and further providing ride through protection against brown-outs.
Claims We claim: 1. A high diversity electrical energy delivery system, comprising: an AC-to-DC converter that converts AC electrical energy supplied by an AC source into DC electrical energy; and a DC bus for routing said DC electrical energy to a plurality of final power elements; wherein at any given time, at least one of said plurality of final power elements is not energized with said DC electrical energy, and wherein said electrical energy delivery system has a capacity that is less than a cumulative peak power requirement of said plurality of final power elements. 2. The system of claim 1, said AC-to-DC converter further comprising: a rectifier; and a filter. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of said final power elements includes an isolator. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of said final power elements includes an over-current protector. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of said final power elements includes both an isolator and an over-current protector. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said system is provided in a modular format that allows ready alteration of system capacity in accordance with final power element power requirements. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising: an energy storage device that is connected to said DC bus and that is operable to supply electrical energy to said final power elements for any of load leveling, ride through, or brown out protection. 8. The system of claim 7, said energy storage device being operable to store electrical energy that is supplied to said DC bus by said converter. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said final power elements comprise a multiple chamber processing system. 10. The system of claim 9, said multiple chamber processing system further comprising a controller. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein any of said AC-to-DC converter and said electrical storage device further comprise a controller. 12. A high diversity electrical energy delivery system, comprising: an AC-to-DC converter for converting AC electrical energy supplied by an AC source into DC electrical energy; a DC bus for routing said DC electrical energy to a plurality of final power elements; and an energy storage device that is connected to said DC bus and that is operable to supply electrical energy to said final power elements for any of load leveling, ride through, or brown out protection; wherein at any given time, at least one of said plurality of final power elements is not energized with said DC electrical energy, and wherein said electrical energy delivery system has a capacity that is less than a cumulative peak power requirement of said plurality of final power elements. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said AC-to-DC converter further comprises: a rectifier; and a filter. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein said AC-to-DC converter further comprises: a switcher power supply. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein at least one of said final power elements includes an isolator. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein at least one of said final power elements includes an over-current protector. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein at least one of said final power elements includes both an isolator and an over-current protector. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein said system is provided in a modular format that allows ready alteration of system capacity in accordance with final power element power requirements. 19. The system of claim 12, wherein said energy storage device stores electrical energy that is supplied to said DC bus by said AC-to-DC converter. 20. The system of claim 12, wherein said final power elements comprise a multiple chamber processing system. 21. The system of claim 20, said multiple chamber processing system further comprising a controller. 22. The system of claim 12, wherein any of said AC-to-DC converter and said electrical storage device further comprise a controller. 23. A high diversity electrical energy delivery method, comprising the steps of: converting AC electrical energy supplied by an AC source into DC electrical energy; routing said DC electrical energy to a plurality of final power elements over a DC bus; and supplying electrical energy to said final power elements for any of load leveling, ride through, or brown out protection with an energy storage device that is connected to said DC bus; wherein at any given time, at least one of said plurality of final power elements is not energized with said DC electrical energy, and wherein an electrical energy delivery system is provided having a capacity that is less than a cumulative peak power requirement of said plurality of final power elements. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said routing step further comprises the step of providing isolation. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein said routing step further comprises the step of providing over current protection. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein said routing step further comprises the step of providing both isolation and over current protection. 27. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of: providing a modular format that allows ready alteration of said electrical energy delivery system capacity in accordance with final power element power requirements. 28. The method of claim 23, further comprising the step of: storing electrical energy that is supplied to said DC bus with said energy storage device. 29. The method of claim 23, wherein said final power elements comprise a multiple chamber processing system. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of controlling operation of said multiple chamber processing system with a controller. 31. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of controlling any of said AC-to-DC conversion step and said electrical storage step with a controller. 32. A high diversity electrical energy delivery method for a multiple chamber processing system, comprising the steps of: converting AC electrical energy supplied by an AC source into DC electrical energy; routing said DC electrical energy to a plurality of power elements within said processing system over a DC bus; and supplying electrical energy to said power elements for any of load leveling, ride through, or brown out protection with an energy storage device that is connected to said DC bus; wherein at any given time, at least one of said plurality of power elements is not energized with said DC electrical energy, and wherein an electrical energy delivery system is provided having a capacity that is less than a cumulative peak power requirement of said plurality of power elements. 33. A high diversity electrical energy delivery system for a multiple chamber processing system, comprising: an AC-to-DC converter for converting AC electrical energy supplied by an AC source into DC electrical energy; a DC bus for routing said DC electrical energy to a plurality of power elements within said processing system; and an energy storage device that is connected to said DC bus and that is operable to supply electrical energy to said power elements for any of load leveling, ride through, or brown out protection; wherein at any given time, at least one of said plurality of power elements is not energized with said DC electrical energy, and wherein said electrical energy delivery system has a capacity that is less than a cumulative peak power requirement of said plurality of power elements. 34. A system for processing semiconductor materials, comprising: at least one load lock; at least one processing chamber; and a high diversity electrical energy delivery system, wherein said high diversity electrical energy delivery system comprises: an AC-to-DC converter that converts AC electrical energy supplied by an AC source into DC electrical energy; and a DC bus for routing said DC electrical energy to a plurality of processing system power elements; wherein at any given time, at least one of said plurality of processing system power elements is not energized with said DC electrical energy, and wherein said electrical energy delivery system has a capacity that is less than a cumulative peak power requirement of said plurality of processing system power elements. 35. The system of claim 34, said AC-to-DC converter further comprising: a rectifier; and a filter. 36. The system of claim 34, wherein at least one of said processing system power elements includes an isolator. 37. The system of claim 34, wherein at least one of said processing system power elements includes an over-current protector. 38. The system of claim 34, wherein at least one of said processing system power elements includes both an isolator and an over-current protector. 39. The system of claim 34, wherein said processing system is provided in a modular format that allows ready alteration of system capacity in accordance with processing system power element power requirements. 40. The system of claim 34, further comprising: an energy storage device that is connected to said DC bus and that is operable to supply electrical energy to said processing system power elements for any of load leveling, ride through, or brown out protection. 41. The system of claim 40, said energy storage device being operable to store electrical energy that is supplied to said DC bus by said converter. 42. The system of claim 34, wherein said processing system power elements comprise a multiple chamber processing system. 43. The system of claim 42, said multiple chamber processing system further comprising a controller. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein any of said AC-to-DC converter and said electrical storage device further comprise a controller. 