An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, performing an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-controlled method for performing an amplification procedure at an incubation temperature that is within a prescribed temperature range for performing a nucleic acid amplification procedure and within an instrument comprising temperature ramping station and an amplification incubator that is at a distinct location from the temperature ramping station, the method comprising the automated steps of: (a) providing a reaction receptacle containing a target nucleic acid to the temperature ramping station and retaining the reaction receptacle within the temperature ramping station for a predetermined length of time while subjecting the reaction receptacle and its contents to thermal energy to adjust the temperature of the contents of the reaction receptacle to approximate an incubation temperature that is within the prescribed temperature range for performing the nucleic acid amplification procedure; (b) removing the reaction receptacle from the temperature ramping station and placing the reaction receptacle into the amplification incubator which is at the incubation temperature when the reaction receptacle is placed therein; and (c) while the reaction receptacle is within the amplification incubator, subjecting the target nucleic acid to the nucleic acid amplification procedure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the prescribed temperature range is 41.4.degree. C. to 41.6.degree. C. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature ramping station includes at least one temperature sensor and a thermal element, and wherein the method further comprises: monitoring the temperature within the temperature ramping station with the temperature sensor; and controlling operation of the thermal element based on the monitored temperature so as to maintain the receptacle ramping station at about the incubation temperature. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the temperature sensor comprises a thermistor. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the thermal element comprises an electrically resistive heating foil. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the thermal element comprises a thermoelectric module. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said moving step comprises the automated steps of withdrawing the reaction receptacle from the temperature ramping station, moving the reaction receptacle in an arc, and inserting the reaction receptacle into the amplification incubator. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction receptacle is placed within the amplification incubator through a receptacle access opening in a housing of the amplification incubator, and wherein the amplification incubator includes a closure mechanism constructed and arranged to be movable between a closed position preventing access to the amplification incubator through the receptacle access opening and an open position permitting access to the amplification incubator through the receptacle access opening. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction receptacle is one of a plurality of integrally formed reaction receptacles. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising an automated step of dispensing reagents for performing the amplification procedure into the reaction receptacle. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the reagents are dispensed into the reaction receptacle while the reaction receptacle is disposed within the amplification incubator. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature within the amplification incubator does not vary by more than about 0.1.degree. C. during the amplification procedure. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after removing the reaction receptacle from the temperature ramping station, and prior to placing the reaction receptacle into the amplification incubator, an automated step of placing the reaction receptacle into a stabilizing incubator and retaining the reaction receptacle within the stabilizing incubator for a predetermined period of time while maintaining the stabilizing incubator at a stabilizing temperature. 