A molding apparatus is configured with article molding regions that receive a direct flow of a molding material feed such that external flow channels are not needed. The article molding regions are formed into front sides of opposed "A" and "B" surface mold tools that, when moved into a mating relationship with one another, form closed molding cavities within which molded articles are generated from molding material feed. The article molding regions each generally have a body bounded by a perimeter that establishes an outer edge for an article molded in the one of the closed molding cavities. With at least the "A" surface mold tool, a port is coupled with the body of each article molding region to establish a direct pathway is through which the molding material feed flows to enter the article molding regions, and thus the closed molding cavity, without having to flow along the tool front sides outside of the article molding regions. A distribution channel extends to each port to deliver the molding material feed and a moveable blocking pin is provided for each port to alternately prevent the molding material feed from flowing through the respective port to reach the closed molding cavity and allow the molding material to flow through the respective port to reach the closed molding cavity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A molding apparatus comprising: a first surface mold tool having a base surface with at least one article molding region formed into the base surface, each article molding region having a body bounded by a perimeter that defines a complete outer edge for a molded article; at least one thermally conductive longitudinally extending port coupled to one article molding region of the first surface mold within the body and away from the base surface, each port comprising a substantially hollow member having an inner surface and an outer surface, said inner surface defining a shaped passageway wherein molding material flows through said shaped passageway into said article molding region to form a molded article; at least one distribution channel extending to each port for delivering the molding material to the respective port; at least one moveable blocking pin shaped to correspond to the shaped passageway of the at least one port, each pin operatively extending and retracting to alternately prevent the molding material from flowing through the shaped passageway and reaching one article molding region of the first surface mold tool and allow the molding material to flow through the shaped passageway and reach one article molding region of the first surface mold tool, said pin shaped and sized to matingly fill the longitudinal extent of the shaped passageway and to be in thermal communication with the inner surface of the at least one port when the pin is in the extended condition; at least one heat sink comprising a hollow chamber partially defined by the outer surface of the at least one port, the hollow chamber defining a fluid space for holding a cooling fluid, wherein the cooling fluid is supplied via a supply line, directly contacts and circumscribes the outer surface of the at least one port, and exits the chamber via a take-off line thereby cooling the at least one port and also cooling the at least one blocking pin when the at least one blocking pin is in the extended condition; and a second surface mold tool opposing the first surface mold tool and having a base surface with at least one article molding region formed into the base surface and configured to mate with the at least one article molding region of the first surface mold tool to form at least one closed molding cavity within which at least one molded article is formed, the at least one closed molding cavity being formed when the first surface mold tool and second surface mold tool are brought together upon movement of at least one of the first surface mold tool and the second surface mold tool. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each article molding region of the first surface mold tool is recessed below the base surface thereof. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein movement of the at least one moveable blocking pin is controlled hydraulically. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one closed molding cavity is configured for molding shingle-like articles. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the perimeter of each article molding region of the first surface mold tool is configured to prevent molding material from flowing between adjacent article molding regions of the first surface mold tool. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the heat sink entirely circumscribes the at least one port. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the heat sink circumscribes an entire length of the at least one port. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chamber for holding a cooling fluid directly contacts and circumscribes the at least one port. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said terminal end of said at least one blocking pin is substantially planar and an output end of the at least one port and the terminal end of said at least one blocking pin substantially align when said at least one blocking pin is in the extended condition thereby creating a substantially smooth finished surface on the molded article at an interface between said port and said molded article. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein at least one of said molded articles is a composite shingle. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising the first surface mold tool having a base surface with a first said article molding region and a second said article molding region; a first said longitudinally extending port coupled to the first said article molding region and a second said longitudinally extending port coupled to the second said article molding region; a first said distribution channel operably coupled to the first said longitudinally extending port and a second said distribution channel operably connected to the second said longitudinally extending port; a first said moveable blocking pin configured to engage the first said longitudinally extending port and a second said moveable blocking pin configured to engage the second said longitudinally extending port; a first said heat sink proximate the first said longitudinally extending port and a second said heat sink substantially encircling the second said longitudinally extending port; and the second surface mold tool having a first said article molding region and a second said article molding region forming a first and second said closed molding cavity when the first surface mold tool and second surface mold tool are brought together; wherein the configuration of the molding apparatus does not require gating between the first closed molding cavity and the second closed molding cavity. 12. In a molding apparatus including opposed first and second surface mold tools each including a front side and a back portion, the front side of the first and second surface mold tools having an article molding region mateable with one another to form a closed molding cavity within which a molded article is formed, the improvement comprising: the article molding region of at least the first surface molding tool having a body bounded by a perimeter that defines an outer edge for the molded article; a thermally conductive cylindrical port coupled to the body of the article molding region of the first surface molding tool, the cylindrical port comprising a substantially hollow member having an inner surface and an outer surface, the inner surface defining a shaped passageway to provide molding material flow therethrough directly into the body within the perimeter from the back portion to the front side of the first surface mold tool; a distribution channel extending from the back portion to the port for delivering the molding material flow to the port; a cylindrical blocking pin moveable to accomplish blocking of the molding material flow through the port by completely filling the shaped passageway of the cylindrical port when the blocking pin is in an extended position, as well as allowance of the molding material flow through the shaped passageway to reach the article molding region when the pin is withdrawn from the cylindrical port, and wherein the cylindrical blocking pin is in thermal communication with the inner surface of said cylindrical port when the blocking pin is in the extended position; and a heat sink comprising a hollow chamber partially defined by the outer surface of the at least one port, the hollow chamber defining a fluid space for holding a cooling fluid, wherein the cooling fluid is supplied via a supply line, directly contacts and circumscribes the outer surface of the port, and exits the heat sink via a take-off line thereby cooling the cylindrical port and also cooling the cylindrical blocking pin when the blocking pin is in the extended position. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the article molding region of the first surface mold tool and the second surface mold tool each comprise two or more article molding regions, each article molding region of the first surface mold being mateable with one article molding region of the second surface mold to form each closed molding cavity, the improvement further comprising an additional port, distribution channel and moveable blocking pin for each additional article molding region of the first surface mold. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the perimeter of each article molding region of the first surface mold tool is configured to prevent molding material from flowing between adjacent article molding regions of the first surface mold tool. 15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the article molding region of the first surface mold tool has a base surface, the article molding region being recessed into the base surface. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein movement of the blocking pin is controlled hydraulically. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the closed molding cavity is configured for molding shingle-like articles. 