The present invention provides methods for generating a distribution of optimal answers to a nondeterministic polynomial optimization problem by providing a plurality of solutions comprising input polynucleotides, wherein each solution comprises identical input polynucleotides; and wherein the number of solutions comprising polynucleotides equals a number of data inputs in the problem to be answered, and wherein each input polynucleotide comprises an x segment and a y segment; providing a plurality of solutions comprising connection polynucleotides wherein each solution comprises identical connection polynucleotides; and wherein the number of solutions comprising connection polynucleotides equals a number of unique connections that can be made between the different data inputs, and wherein each polynucleotide in the set of connection polynucleotides is complementary to the x segment of one input polynucleotide and to the y segment of one different input polynucleotide; combining the solutions comprising the input polynucleotides with the solutions comprising the connection polynucleotides to form a hybridization mixture, wherein the combining is done under conditions to promote formation of hybridization complexes between complementary polynucleotides, and wherein each individual connection polynucleotide is added at a concentration based on a weighted value assigned to the individual connection polynucleotide; ligating the polynucleotides that are present in the hybridization complexes to form ligation products; and determining a concentration of the ligation products, wherein the ligation products present at the highest concentration represent optimal answers to the nondeterministic polynomial optimization problem.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for generating a distribution of optimal answers to a nondeterministic polynomial optimization problem comprising: (a) providing n solutions comprising input polynucleotides, wherein each solution comprises identical input polynucleotides; and wherein n equals a number of data inputs in the problem to be answered, and wherein each input polynucleotide comprises an x segment and a y segment; (b) providing z solutions comprising connection polynucleotides, wherein each solution comprises identical connection polynucleotides; and wherein z equals a number of unique connections that can be made between the different data inputs, and wherein each polynucleotide in the set of connection polynucleotides is complementary to the x segment of one input polynucleotide and to the y segment of one different input polynucleotide; (c) combining the solutions comprising the input polynucleotides with the solutions comprising the connection polynucleotides to form a hybridization mixture, wherein the combining is done under conditions to promote formation of hybridization complexes between complementary polynucleotides, and wherein each individual connection polynucleotide is added at a concentration based on a weighted value assigned to the individual connection polynucleotide; (d) ligating the polynucleotides that are present in the hybridization complexes to form ligation products; and (e) determining a concentration of the ligation products, wherein the ligation products present at the highest concentration represent optimal answers to the nondeterministic polynomial optimization problem. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises: (i) combining the solutions comprising the input polynucleotides only with those solutions comprising connection polynucleotides that are complementary to the x or y segment of a starting input polynucleotide to form a hybridization mixture, wherein the combining is done under conditions to promote hybridization between complementary polynucleotides to form a first hybridization complex between the starting input polynucleotide, a second input polynucleotide, and one connection polynucleotide; and (ii) combining the solutions comprising the remaining connection polynucleotides not combined in step (i) with the hybridization mixture, wherein the combining is done under conditions to promote hybridization between complementary polynucleotides, wherein the remaining connection polynucleotides are added at a concentration based on a weighted value assigned to each individual remaining connection polynucleotide. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein step (c)(ii) is repeated a desired number of times. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises: (i) combining the solutions comprising the input polynucleotides only with those solutions comprising connection polynucleotides that are complementary to the x or y segment of at least two, but less than all, of the input polynucleotides, to form a hybridization mixture, wherein the combining is done under conditions to promote formation of hybridization complexes between complementary polynucleotides, and wherein each individual connection polynucleotide is added at a concentration based on a weighted value assigned to the individual connection polynucleotide; and (ii) combining the solutions comprising the remaining connection polynucleotides not combined in step (i) with the hybridization mixture, wherein the combining is done under conditions to promote hybridization between complementary polynucleotides, wherein the remaining connection polynucleotides are added at a concentration based on a weighted value assigned to each individual remaining connection polynucleotide. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein step (c)(ii) is repeated a desired number of times. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the input polynucleotides are present in the hybridization mixture in a saturating concentration relative to the connection polynucleotides. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining a concentration of the ligation products comprises determining a length of the ligation products. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises purifying those ligation products that contain each input polynucleotide prior to determining a concentration of the ligation products. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining a concentration of the ligation products comprises determining an order of polynucleotides in the ligation products. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the detecting produces a reduced distance matrix with nonzero values only for those ligation products that exist in an optimal answer set. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the nondeterministic polynomial optimization problem is selected from the group consisting of evacuation planning, invasion response planning, supply chain problems, computer chip assembly, shortest path problems, graph theory problems, network design problems, sets and partitions problems, storage and retrieval problems, sequencing and scheduling problems, mathematical programming problems, algebra and number theory problems, and program optimization problems. 12. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising a set of computer program instructions that cause a computer comprising a processor to execute all the steps in the method of claim 1. 