An ion implanter system including an ion source for use in creating a stream or beam of ions. The ion source has an ion source chamber housing that at least partially bounds an ionization region for creating a high density concentration of ions within the chamber housing. An ion extraction aperture of desired characteristics covers an ionization region of the chamber. In one embodiment, a movable ion extraction aperture plate is moved with respect to the housing for modifying an ion beam profile. One embodiment includes an aperture plate having at least elongated apertures and is moved between at least first and second positions that define different ion beam profiles. A drive or actuator coupled to the aperture plate moves the aperture plate between the first and second positions. An alternate embodiment has two moving plate portions that bound an adjustable aperture.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An ion source for use in creating a stream of ions having a selectively optimized ion extraction current density depending on selection of a monomer or molecular source ionization material, comprising: an ion source chamber for receiving either monomer or molecular source ionization material, said ion source chamber at least partially bounding an ionization region for creating a high density concentration of ions from the monomer or molecular source ionization material within the ion source chamber; a wall for partially enclosing the ionization region of said ion source chamber and providing an ion extraction aperture that permits migration of ions from said ion source chamber having a controlled ion extraction current density, wherein the size and shape of the ion extraction aperture can be controlled as a function of the source ionization material; and a drive for moving the wall into operative position with respect to the ion source chamber to allow ions within the ion source chamber to exit through the ion extraction aperture with a selected ion extraction current density, said drive providing the ion extraction aperture with a desired size and shape as a function of the selected monomer or molecular source ionization material. 2. The ion source of claim 1 wherein the wall comprises a movable wall having a plurality of elongated ion extraction apertures of different widths. 3. The ion source of claim 1 wherein the wall comprises first and second wall portions that are moveable to adjust a distance between the walls to adjust a width of the ion extraction aperture. 4. The ion source of claim 3 wherein the first and second wall portions move toward and away from each in synchronism to maintain a center line of a beam of ions as the beam as it exits the ion source. 5. The ion source of claim 2 wherein the movable wall is mounted for generally linear movement within an evacuated region of an ion implanter. 6. The ion source of claim 1 wherein the wall comprises first and second shutters having different ion extraction apertures mounted for movement into and out of position with respect to the ion source chamber. 7. The ion source of claim 6 wherein the shutters are mounted to a common support which rotates a selected one of the shutters into position for allowing ions to exit the ionization region of the ion source chamber. 8. An ion source for use in creating a stream of ions having a selectively optimized ion extraction current density depending on selection of a monomer or molecular source ionization material, comprising: an ion source chamber housing for receiving a selected monomer or molecular source ionization material, said chamber housing at least partially bounding an ionization region for creating a high density concentration of ions from the selected monomer or molecular source ionization material within the chamber housing; an ion beam extraction assembly having a number of metallic electrodes for creating an ion accelerating electric field; an ion extraction aperture plate positioned between the ionization region of said ion source chamber and the ion beam extraction assembly that partially encloses the ionization region of the source chamber housing; support structure for movably supporting the ion extraction aperture plate with respect to the housing for moving the ion extraction aperture plate between at least first and second positions that define different ion ion extraction apertures of different size and shape that provide controlled ion extraction current density as a function of the source ionization material; and a drive coupled to the ion extraction aperture plate for moving the ion extraction aperture plate between said first and second positions as a function of the selected ionization material. 9. The ion source of claim 8 comprising first and second aperture plates spaced apart by an adjustable gap which defines the different ion extraction apertures. 10. The ion source of claim 8 wherein the ion extraction aperture plate comprises two elongated openings aligned in generally side by side configuration next to each other. 11. The ion source of claim 10 wherein a fixed wall of the ion source chamber defines a third opening that is selectively overlapped by said two elongated openings to narrow a beam width emerging from the chamber. 12. The ion source of claim 10 wherein the drive moves the ion extraction aperture plate in a generally linear path so that one or the other of the two generally aligned elongated openings defines a beam width. 13. The ion source of claim 8 wherein a first extraction aperture extends through a first ion extraction aperture plate and additionally comprising a second ion extraction aperture plate having a second extraction aperture for partially enclosing an ionization region of the chamber; and wherein the support structure movably supports the first and second ion extraction aperture plates with respect to the housing to define different ion beam profiles. 14. The ion source of claim 13 wherein the drive moves the first and second ion extraction aperture plates in tandem. 15. A method for generating an ion beam having a selectively optimized ion extraction current density depending on usage of a selected monomer or molecular source ionization material for use with an ion implanter comprising: a) positioning a source chamber to provide a high concentration of ions in an ionization region for creating a beam of ions that extends along an ion beam path of travel; b) positioning an ion beam extraction assembly having a number of metallic electrodes in relation to the ionization region for creating an ion accelerating electric field for accelerating ions leaving the ionization region; c) mounting structure between the source chamber and the ion beam extraction assembly to define an adjustable ion extraction aperture that is multiply configurable for allowing ions to exit the ionization region, accelerate through the accelerating electric field created by the ion beam extraction assembly, and form an ion beam of a defined shape that extends along the ion path of travel within a low pressure region of the ion implanter; d) lowering a pressure at a region of the ion source chamber; e) ionizing a first monomer or molecular source material within the ion source chamber to provide a first high concentration of ions in an ionization region; f) creating a first ion extraction current density by allowing ions from the first high concentration of ions to migrate through an ion extraction aperture having a first size and shape; and g) without re-pressurizing the beam path, ionizing a different, second monomer or molecular source material within the ion source chamber to provide a second concentration of ions in the ionization region; h) and changing the size and shape of the ion extraction aperture to create a second, different ion extraction current based on a choice of the second monomer or molecular source material as ions from the second concentration of ions exit the source chamber through the ion extraction aperture. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the mounting comprises movably supporting an ion extraction plate having two ion extraction openings in relation to the high concentration of ions and selectively allowing ions from different ionization material to flow through one or the other of said two ion extraction openings. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of changing the size and shape of the extraction aperture is performed by moving one or more moveable wall portions to adjust a width of the ion extraction aperture. 18. The method of claim 15 comprising movably mounting first and second plates having different ion extraction aperture sizes and shapes and rotating one or the other of the plates into position with respect to a source housing. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein first and second plates having different shaped ion extractions apertures are mounted to a common support for movement to an operative position for defining first and second ion beam extraction current densities. 20. A method for generating an ion beam for use with an ion implanter comprising: a) positioning first and second ion source chambers for creating a beam of ions that extends along an ion beam path of travel; said first and second source chambers having first and second different width ion extraction apertures in a wall facing the ion beam path of travel to allow ions from the respective first and second source chambers to migrate through an associated extraction aperture; b) positioning an ion beam extraction assembly having a number of metallic electrodes in relation to the ionization region for creating an ion accelerating electric field for accelerating ions leaving an ionization region of the first and second ion source chambers; c) lowering a pressure at a region of the first and second ion source chambers; d) ionizing a source material within a first ion source chamber to provide a first high concentration of ions in a first ionization region; e) creating a first profile beam of ions by allowing ions to migrate through an ion extraction aperture of the first ion source chamber having a first shape and accelerating said ions away from the ion extraction aperture by energizing the ion beam extraction assembly; f) without re-pressurizing the beam path, ionizing a source material within a second ion source chamber to provide a second high concentration of ions in a second ionization region; g) creating a second profile beam of ions by allowing ions to migrate through an ion extraction aperture of the second ion source chamber having a second shape and accelerating said ions away from the ion extraction aperture by energizing the ion beam extraction assembly. 