The present invention provides for novel assays and the use of such assays for screening compounds that affect PGRMC1's and related homologue's ability to catalyze the incorporation of cholesterol into membranes. The present invention also provides for methods and compositions for affecting incorporation of cholesterol into membranes. The invention also provides for diagnostic and therapeutic kits for the methods described herein.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of screening for compounds that modulate the activity of PGRMC1 or a homologue thereof comprising: (a) contacting a test compound with cholesterol and a membrane-bound PGRMC1 or a homologue thereof to form a reaction mixture; and (b) determining whether incorporation of cholesterol into the membrane is increased or decreased in the presence of the test compound, wherein a decrease in the incorporation is an indication that the test compound inhibits the activity of PGRMC1 or homologue thereof, and an increase in the incorporation is an indication that the test compound enhances the activity of PGRMC1, wherein the PGRMC1 or homologue thereof is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 4 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4, and SEQ ID NO: 5 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the PGRMC1 or homologue thereof is SEQ ID NO: 1 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the PGRMC1 or homologue thereof is SEQ ID NO: 1. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining whether incorporation of cholesterol into the membrane is increased or decreased in the presence of the test compound comprises: (a) contacting the reaction mixture with cholesterol oxidase; (b) adding peroxidase and a detection reagent; and (c) measuring the formation of a detectable product. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the detectable product is a colored, luminescent or fluorescent product. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the detection reagent is 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the membrane-bound PGRMC1 protein or homologue thereof is produced recombinantly. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the membrane-bound PGRMC1 protein or homologue thereof is produced in E. coli. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the test compound is contacted with cholesterol and a membrane-bound PGRMC1 or a homologue thereof under physiological conditions. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the method of screening identifies compounds that inhibit incorporation of cholesterol into a membrane. 11. A method of screening compounds that modulate the activity of PGRMC1 or a homologue thereof comprising: (a) providing a solution comprising (i) membranes associated with PGRMC1 or a homologue thereof; (ii) cholesterol; and (iii) a test compound; (b) incubating the solution under physiological conditions; (c) contacting the solution with cholesterol oxidase; (d) adding peroxidase and a detection reagent to produce a detectable product; and (e) measuring the production of the detectable product to determine whether incorporation of cholesterol into the membrane is increased or decreased in the presence of the test compound, wherein the PGRMC1 or homologue thereof is selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 1 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 4 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 4, and SEQ ID NO: 5 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein a decrease in the incorporation is an indication that the test compound inhibits the activity of PGRMC1 or homologue thereof, and an increase in the incorporation is an indication that the test compound enhances the activity of PGRMC1. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the detectable product is a colored, luminescent or fluorescent product. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the detection reagent is 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the PGRMC1 protein or homologue thereof is produced recombinantly. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the PGRMC1 protein or homologue thereof is produced in E. coli. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the PGRMC1 or homologue thereof is SEQ ID NO: 5 or a protein having an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 5. 