Disclosed are compositions and methods for diagnosing, preventing, and treating prostate cancer and prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for monitoring risk of prostate conditions in a subject, comprising determining a Paired Box 2 gene-to-beta defensin-1 gene (PAX2-to-DEFB1) expression ratio in cells obtained from the prostate of the subject, wherein the PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio is correlated with prostate conditions. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein a PAX 2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio of 100:1 or higher is indicative of the presence of prostate cancer in the subject, a PAX 2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio of 40:1 or higher, but less than 100:1, is indicative of the presence of prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) in the subject, and a PAX 2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio of less than 40:1 is indicative of normal prostate in the subject. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step comprises: determining the expression level of PAX2 gene relative to the expression level of a control gene; determining the expression level of DEFB1 gene relative to the expression level of the same control gene; and determining the PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio based on the expression levels of PAX2 and DEFB1. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the expression levels of PAX2, DEFB1 and the control genes are determined by quantitative real-time RT-PCR. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the control gene is the glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) gene. 6. A method for determining a risk of prostate cancer in a subject, comprising determining a PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio in cells obtained from the prostate of the subject, wherein a PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio of 100:1 or higher is indicative of the presence of prostate cancer in the subject. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the determining step comprises: determining the expression level of PAX2 gene relative to the expression level of a control gene; determining the expression level of DEFB1 gene relative to the expression level of the same control gene; and determining the PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio based on the expression levels of PAX2 and DEFB1. 8. A method for determining a risk of prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) in a subject, comprising determining a PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio in cells obtained from the prostate of the subject, wherein a PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio in the range of 40:1 to about 100:1 is indicative of the presence of PIN in the subject. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining step comprises: determining the expression level of PAX2 gene relative to the expression level of a control gene; determining the expression level of DEFB1 gene relative to the expression level of the same control gene; and determining the PAX2-to-DEFB1 expression ratio based on the expression levels of PAX2 and DEFB1. 