Multi-modal planning method and system that search a path for the most constrained mode first, and then expands the searches for path in a less constrained mode. By searching the path for the most constrained mode first, less resource are wasted on searching for paths that does not result in a feasible path in the most constrained mode. Multi-modal planning is performed by precomputing feasibility and utility of transition configurations of two adjacent modes. The feasibility is used to exclude non-feasible transition configurations in the most constrained mode from being sampled. The utility is used to bias sampling of the transition configuration so that transition configurations with higher utility are sampled with higher probability. Paths of configurations with higher utility and efficiency are obtained by biasing the sampling of the transition configurations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of planning motions for a subject device operable in two or more modes, each mode having a set of constraints on configuration of the subject device, comprising: receiving a target configuration of the subject device; selecting a first transition configuration of the subject device from candidate transition configurations shared by a most constrained mode of the two or more modes and a first mode adjacent to the most constrained mode, the first mode placed between the most constrained mode and a mode of an initial configuration; at a computing device, performing a first search for a first series of configurations from the first transition configuration to the initial configuration; performing a second search for a second series of configurations from the first transition configuration to the target configuration; and outputting the first and second series of configurations. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the first search comprises: sampling a second transition configuration shared by the first mode and a second mode adjacent to the first mode, the second mode placed between the first mode and the mode of the initial configuration; and searching a third series of configurations of the subject device in the first mode between the first transition configuration and the second transition configuration using a single-mode planning. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating and expanding a tree including nodes, each node representing a configuration that may be taken by the subject device to reach the target configuration from the initial configuration. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining feasibility of reaching transition configurations for the first transition configuration from the first mode; and computing utility of the candidate transition configurations for the first transition configuration, the utility representing changes in configuration effective in reaching the target configuration within the most constrained mode from the first transition configuration; and wherein selecting the first transition configuration comprises sampling a candidate transition configuration biased by the feasibility and the utility of the candidate transition configurations. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: storing the determined feasibility for the candidate transition configurations in a feasibility table; and storing the computed utility for the candidate transition configurations in a utility table. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the target configuration is in the most constrained mode, and wherein the second search is performed using a single-mode planning. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the most constrained mode comprises a mode for pushing an object. 8. A computer readable storage medium adapted to plan motions for a subject device, the computer readable storage medium structured to store instructions, when executed, cause a processor to: receive a target configuration of the subject device, the subject device operable in two or more modes, each mode having a set of constraints on configurations that may be taken by the subject device; determine two or more modes taken by the subject device to reach the target configuration from an initial configuration; perform a first search for a first series of configurations from a first transition configuration of the subject device to the initial configuration of the subject device; perform a second search for a second series of configurations from the first transition configuration of the subject device to the target configuration of the subject device; and output the first and second series of configurations of the subject device. 9. The computer readable storage medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions to: sample a second transition configuration shared by the first mode and a second mode adjacent to the first mode, the second mode placed between the first mode and the mode of the initial configuration; and search a third series of configurations of the subject device in the first mode between the first transition configuration and the second transition configuration using a single-mode planning. 10. The computer readable storage medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions to generate and expand a tree including multiple nodes, each node representing a configuration that may be taken by the subject device to reach the target configuration from the initial configuration. 11. The computer readable storage medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions to: determine feasibility of reaching transition configurations for the first transition configuration from the first mode; and compute utility of the candidate transition configurations for the first transition configuration, the utility representing changes in configuration effective in reaching the target configuration within the most constrained mode from the first transition configuration; and wherein the instructions to select the first transition configuration comprise instructions to sample a candidate configuration biased by the feasibility and the utility of the candidate transition configurations. 12. The computer readable storage medium of claim 11, further comprising instructions to: store the determined feasibility for the candidate transition configurations in a feasibility table; and store the computed utility for the candidate transition configurations in a utility table. 13. The computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the target configuration is in the most constrained mode, and wherein the second search is performed using a single-mode planning. 14. The computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the most constrained mode comprises a mode for pushing an object. 15. A system for planning motions for a subject device operable in two or more modes, each mode having a set of constraints on configurations that may be taken by the subject device, comprising: a critical mode planner adapted to select a first transition configuration of the subject device from candidate transition configurations shared by a most constrained mode of the two or more modes and a first mode adjacent to the most constrained mode, the first mode placed between the most constrained mode and a mode of an initial configuration; and a search tree expander adapted to perform a first search for a first series of configurations from the first transition configuration to the initial configuration; a single mode planner adapted to perform a second search for a second series of configurations from the first transition configuration to the target configuration; and a plan path extractor adapted to output a first and second series of configurations. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the search tree expander is further adapted to: sample a second transition configuration shared by the first mode and a second mode adjacent to the first mode, the second mode placed between the first mode and the mode of the initial configuration; and search a third series of configurations of the subject device in the first mode between the first transition configuration and the second transition configuration using a single-mode planner. 17. The system of claim 15, the tree expander is further adapted to generate and expand a tree including multiple nodes, each node representing a configuration that may be taken by the subject device to reach the target configuration from the initial configuration. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the critical mode planner is further adapted to: determine feasibility of reaching transition configurations for the first transition configuration from the first mode; and compute utility of the candidate transition configurations for the first transition configuration, the utility representing changes in configuration effective in reaching the target configuration within the most constrained mode from the first transition configuration; and sample a candidate configuration biased by the feasibility and the utility of the candidate transition configurations. 19. The system of claim 18, further comprising: a feasibility table adapted to store the determined feasibility for the candidate transition configurations; and a utility table adapted to store the computed utility for the candidate transition configurations. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein the target configuration is in the most constrained mode, and the search tree expander is adapted to perform the second search using a single-mode planner. 21. The system of claim 15, wherein the most constrained mode comprises a mode for pushing an object. 