Methods and tools for automatically performing work within a pipe or pipe network based on sensed impedance information. A robot, which may be tethered or un-tethered, includes a computer controller and a work tool for performing work within the pipe. With or without impedance-based calibration, the robot senses environmental and tool-based impedance characteristics and determines, using said software, ways in which the current work performance can be altered or improved based on the impedance information. The operation of the work tool is then altered in line with the control software. Many different types of work related to the inspection, cleaning and rehabilitation of pipes can be accomplished with the present robots including reinstating laterals after lining, cutting or clearing debris, sealing pipe joints and/or other heretofore manual pipe-based processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, implemented at least in part with a computing device of a robot, for automatically removing a lining material covering an opening defined by a lateral pipe connected to a main pipe, the method comprising: at the robot, generating a three-dimensional map of a surface of the lining material while the robot is at a first position within the main pipe; plunging a cutting tool connected to said robot through said lining material, wherein the plunging is performed while the robot is at the first position; cutting said lining material toward an edge of said lateral pipe while monitoring impedance information related to said cutting tool, wherein the cutting is performed while the robot is at the first position; adjusting a depth of said cutting tool into an interior of said lateral pipe a plurality of times while cutting said lining material, wherein said adjusting is based on the three-dimensional map of the lining material; determining when said cutting tool has encountered the edge of said lateral pipe based on a change in said impedance information as determined by a processor of the computing device of the robot; and adjusting a cutting vector of said cutting tool to approximate a shape of said edge, wherein said adjusting of the cutting vector is based on said change determined by said processor. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: after said plunging step, cutting a test portion of said lining material to determine a baseline impedance level; and determining a threshold impedance level above said baseline impedance level to represent an impedance of the edge of said lateral. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: repeating said steps of cutting said lining toward said edge, determining when said cutting tool encounters said edge, and adjusting the cutting vector of said cutting tool. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said impedance information is selected from the group consisting of electrical impedance, mechanical force impedance, back pressure impedance, hydraulic pressure impedance, cutting tool velocity, current output and cutting head velocity. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein said step of cutting a test portion comprises cutting said lining material in a straight line for a predetermined amount of time and measuring a distance traveled during the cut. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein said threshold impedance is set at a predetermined percentage above said baseline impedance. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of adjusting a cutting vector of said cutting tool is characterized by changing the cutting vector to be perpendicular to the edge of said lateral pipe. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of adjusting a cutting vector of said cutting tool is characterized by reversing a direction of said cutting tool away from the edge of said lateral pipe. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional map of the lining material is generated before said plunging step. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the three-dimensional map comprises using structured light to generate the map. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the three-dimensional map comprises touching a surface of the lining material at a plurality of different points at the opening. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said cutting comprises cutting said lining material covering said opening into a plurality of pieces. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting a force applied by said cutting tool based on said change in said impedance information. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising clamping the robot in place at the first position. 