A system and method for inspecting a wind turbine for indications is disclosed. The method includes providing an inspection system on a tower of the wind turbine, the inspection system including a climbing device and an inspection device, the climbing device including a traction apparatus configured to engage the tower and a drive mechanism configured to drive the climbing device. The method further includes rotating a rotor blade of the wind turbine such that the rotor blade is approximately parallel to and proximate the tower, operating the inspection system to traverse the tower, and operating the inspection system to inspect the rotor blade for indications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for inspecting a wind turbine for indications, the method comprising: providing an inspection system on a tower of the wind turbine, the inspection system including a climbing device and an inspection device, the climbing device including a traction apparatus configured to engage the tower and a drive mechanism configured to drive the climbing device on the tower; rotating a rotor blade of the wind turbine such that the rotor blade is approximately parallel to and proximate the tower; operating the inspection system to traverse the tower; and, operating the inspection system to inspect the rotor blade for indications. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising operating a safety device to reduce the apparent weight of the inspection system. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising rotating the rotor blade about a pitch axis. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein operating the inspection system to inspect the wind turbine for indications comprises measuring the size of the indications. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein measuring the size of the indications comprises providing at least one measuring apparatus in the inspection system, calibrating the measuring apparatus, and utilizing the measuring apparatus to measure the size of the indications. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein operating the inspection system to inspect the wind turbine for indications comprises determining the location of the indications. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein operating the inspection system to inspect the wind turbine for indications comprises rasterizing the wind turbine. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein operating the inspection system to inspect the wind turbine for indications comprises capturing images of the indications and enhancing the images of the indications. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein operating the inspection system to inspect the wind turbine for indications includes automatically detecting the indications. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein operating the inspection system to inspect the wind turbine for indications comprises providing a real time image of the indications. 11. An inspection system for inspecting a wind turbine for indications, the inspection system comprising: a climbing device configured to traverse a tower of the wind turbine, the climbing device including a traction apparatus configured to engage the tower and a drive mechanism configured to drive the climbing device on the tower; and, an inspection device connected to the climbing device and configured to inspect a rotor blade of the wind turbine for indications. 12. The inspection system of claim 11, further comprising a safety device connecting the inspection system to the wind turbine, the safety device configured to reduce the apparent weight of the inspection system. 13. The inspection system of claim 11, the inspection device including a measuring apparatus configured to measure the size of the indications. 14. The inspection system of claim 13, wherein the measuring apparatus includes at least one laser. 15. The inspection system of claim 13, wherein the measuring apparatus includes two lasers disposed approximately parallel to each other. 16. The inspection system of claim 11, the inspection device including a locating apparatus configured to determine the location of the indications. 17. The inspection system of claim 11, the inspection device including a rasterization apparatus configured to rasterize the wind turbine. 18. The inspection system of claim 11, the inspection device including an imaging analysis apparatus configured to capture images of the indications and enhance the images of the indications. 19. The inspection system of claim 18, wherein the imaging analysis apparatus is further configured to automatically detect the indications. 20. The inspection system of claim 11, the inspection device including a real time imaging apparatus configured to provide a real time image of the indications. 