Described herein is electroadhesion technology that permits controllable adherence between two objects. Electroadhesion uses electrostatic forces of attraction produced by an electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is applied using electrodes in an electroadhesive device. The electrostatic adhesion voltage produces an electric field and electrostatic adherence forces. When the electroadhesive device and electrodes are positioned near a surface of an object such as a vertical wall, the electrostatic adherence forces hold the electroadhesive device in position relative to the surface and object. This can be used to increase traction or maintain the position of the electroadhesive device relative to a surface. Electric control of the electrostatic adhesion voltage permits the adhesion to be controllably and readily turned on and off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a body; and at least one electroadhesive device mechanically coupled to the body and configured to detachably adhere to a surface of a foreign substrate, the at least one electroadhesive device including: a deformable surface adapted to interface with the surface of the foreign substrate, wherein at least a portion of the deformable surface deforms when said at least one electroadhesive device adheres to the substrate, a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the deformable surface, a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the deformable surface, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the at least one electroadhesive device and the foreign substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the at least one electroadhesive device relative to the foreign substrate, and an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and configured to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the foreign substrate is included in a vertical wall or a ceiling. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the foreign substrate surface is damp or dusty. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: a mechanism for locomotion coupled to the body and configured to position the at least one electroadhesive device onto the surface of the foreign substrate. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the mechanism for locomotion includes tracks or a wheel. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second electrodes include one or more cilium configured to deform to a surface of the substrate when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising circuitry configured to provide the electrostatic adhesion voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode, and wherein the circuitry includes step-up voltage circuitry that is configured to receive a voltage from a voltage source, which is less than about 40 volts, and configured to increase the voltage from the voltage source to the electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is above about 500 volts. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are less than about 1 millimeter from the surface of the substrate when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 9. An electroadhesive device configured to adhere two objects together, the electroadhesive device comprising: a body with a first surface and a second surface; a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the first surface; and a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the first surface, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces a first electrostatic force between the electroadhesive device and a first object that is suitable to adhere a surface of the first object to the first surface, and wherein at least a portion of the first surface deforms when the first object adheres to the first surface, and wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces a second electrostatic force between the electroadhesive device and a second object that is suitable to adhere a surface of the second object to the second surface. 10. The electroadhesive device of claim 9, wherein the body includes an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and configured to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 11. The electroadhesive device of claim 9, wherein the body includes an insulation material has a thickness less than about 2 millimeters. 12. The electroadhesive device of claim 9, wherein the first electrode is on the first surface and the second electrode is on the second surface. 13. The electroadhesive device of claim 9, wherein the first surface and the second surface are deformable and the body includes a deformable insulation material. 14. The electroadhesive device of claim 13, wherein the deformable insulation material includes a compliant material having an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa. 15. The electroadhesive device of claim 13, wherein the deformable surface includes a surface of a material or structure that is bendable but not substantially elastically extendable. 16. A method of ascending a wall comprising: positioning an electroadhesion device in proximity to a surface of the wall; applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between a first electrode at a first location of the electroadhesion device and a second electrode at a second location of the electroadhesion device; adhering the electroadhesion device to the wall surface using an electrostatic attraction force provided by the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference, wherein said adhering includes deforming at least a portion of the electroadhesive surface contacting the wall; and ascending the wall while the electroadhesion device adheres to the wall. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the electroadhesion device is included in a system having a second electroadhesion device that moves when then first electroadhesion device adheres to the wall. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: removing the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: repositioning the electroadhesion device to a new position in proximity to a surface of the wall. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode at the first location of the electroadhesion device and the second electrode at a second location of the electroadhesion device; and adhering the electroadhesion device to the wall surface at the new position. 