Random arrays of single molecules are provided for carrying out large scale analyses, particularly of biomolecules, such as genomic DNA, cDNAs, proteins, and the like. In one aspect, arrays of the invention comprise concatemers of DNA fragments that are randomly disposed on a regular array of discrete spaced apart regions, such that substantially all such regions contain no more than a single concatemer. Preferably, such regions have areas substantially less than 1 .mu.m.sup.2 and have nearest neighbor distances that permit optical resolution of on the order of 10.sup.9 single molecules per cm.sup.2. Many analytical chemistries can be applied to random arrays of the invention, including sequencing by hybridization chemistries, sequencing by synthesis chemistries, SNP detection chemistries, and the like, to greatly expand the scale and potential applications of such techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for making an array of randomly disposed concatemers, wherein said method comprises: (a) providing a solid substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of discrete spaced apart regions defined on said surface, wherein the discrete spaced apart regions are arranged on the surface in a regular array, wherein the discrete spaced apart regions bind DNA concatemers through attractive noncovalent interactions, wherein said discrete spaced apart regions are separated by inter-regional areas; and said inter-regional areas are hydrophobic; (b) providing a composition comprising a plurality of DNA concatemers, wherein each concatemer comprises a plurality of monomeric units; (c) depositing said composition on said surface, thereby randomly disposing concatemers on said plurality of discrete spaced apart regions such that at least a majority of said plurality of discrete spaced apart regions comprise a single concatemer bound thereto and said concatemers do not bind to said inter-regional areas. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of concatemers are immobilized on said discrete spaced apart regions through attractive noncovalent interactions. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said attractive noncovalent interactions are a member selected from Van der Waal forces, hydrogen bonding, and ionic interactions. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said surface comprises silica. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said discrete spaced apart regions comprise functional moieties. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said functional moieties comprise amines. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the discrete spaced apart regions are positively charged so as to bind said concatemers. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein a majority of said concatemers disposed on said discrete spaced apart regions have a nearest neighbor distance of about 50 nanometers or greater. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said majority of said concatemers have a nearest neighbor distance of about 200 nanometers or greater. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said majority of said concatemers are disposed on said discrete spaced apart regions at a density of at least 1000 per .mu.m.sup.2. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein more than 80% of said discrete regions have a single concatemer attached thereto. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said concatemers have a diameter that is approximately equal to that of the discrete regions. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said concatemers are made by rolling circle replication. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the concatemer consists essentially of a polymer of deoxyribonucleotides. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining at least a portion of the DNA sequence of at least one said attached concatemer. 16. A method for making an array of randomly disposed concatemers, wherein said method comprises: (a) providing a solid substrate comprising a surface, wherein said surface comprises a plurality of discrete spaced apart regions defined on said surface, wherein said discrete spaced apart regions are arranged on said surface in a regular array and separated by inter-regional areas; (b) depositing, on said surface, a composition comprising a plurality of DNA concatemers, wherein said concatemers bind at said discrete spaced apart regions, thereby randomly disposing concatemers on said plurality of discrete spaced apart regions, wherein said concatemers are immobilized on said discrete spaced apart regions through attractive noncovalent interactions such that at least a majority of said plurality of discrete spaced apart regions comprise a single concatemer bound thereto, wherein said concatemers do not bind to said inter-regional areas, and wherein said concatemers comprise a plurality of monomeric units and each monomeric unit comprises: (i) a first target sequence of a target polynucleotide; (ii) an adaptor, wherein said first target sequence is adjacent to said adaptor. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said attractive noncovalent interactions are a member selected from Van der Waal forces, hydrogen bonding, and ionic interactions. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein said discrete spaced apart regions comprise functional moieties. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said functional moieties comprise amines. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein the adaptor comprises a Type IIs endonuclease restriction site. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein said concatemers are generated from a circular template, wherein said circular template comprises said adaptor and said first target sequence. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein said target polynucleotide is a genomic sequence. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein substantially all of said plurality of discrete spaced apart regions have at most a single concatemer attached. 24. The method of claim 16 wherein more than 80% of said discrete regions have a single concatemer attached thereto. 25. The method of claim 16 wherein each concatemer comprises 100-1000 monomeric units. 26. The method of claim 1, 16, or 20, wherein said inert inter-regional areas comprise hydrophobic barriers. 27. The method of claim 1, 16, or 20, wherein said discrete spaced apart regions are prepared by photolithography. 28. The method of claim 1, 16, or 20, wherein said target polynucleotide is of unknown sequence. 29. A method for making an array of randomly disposed concatemers, wherein said method comprises: (a) providing a composition comprising at least one million DNA concatemers, wherein each concatemer comprises a plurality of monomeric units and each monomeric unit comprises: (i) a first target sequence of a target polynucleotide; (ii) an adaptor; (b) providing a solid substrate comprising a surface and a plurality of discrete spaced apart regions defined on said surface in a regular array, wherein the discrete regions are positively charged so as to bind said concatemers, and wherein said discrete spaced apart regions are separated by hydrophobic inter-regional areas and are arranged on the surface in a regular array; (c) depositing said composition on said surface, thereby randomly disposing concatemers on said plurality of discrete spaced apart regions such that at least 80% of said plurality of discrete spaced apart regions comprise a single concatemer bound thereto and said concatemers do not bind to said inter-regional areas. 