Improved optical devices and methods transmit optical images along elongate optical paths with relatively limited cross-sectional dimensions using an improved objective, relay, and ocular systems. In a first aspect, at least one intermediate image formed within an optical component, rather than being formed in a gap between optical components. In a preferred embodiment, a first intermediate image is formed within glass of the most proximal objective lens, with the first intermediate image extending axially along a curved image location within the glass. The last intermediate image may similarly be disposed within a distal lens of the ocular system. By making use of a first and/or last intermediate image disposed in this manner within a lens, endoscopes can exhibit a significantly larger Numerical Aperture than known endoscopes having similar cross-sectional dimensions. In a second aspect, the ocular system allows independent adjustment of diopters, magnification, X-Y positioning, and rotation orientation of the captured image while introducing minimal aberrations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stereoscopic endoscope comprising: a shaft comprising a proximal end and a distal end; an objective lens system positioned at the distal end of the shaft along an optical path; a relay lens system disposed proximal of the objective lens system along the optical path, wherein the relay lens system is separated from the objective lens system by an objective-relay gap, and wherein no intermediate image is disposed within the objective-relay gap; and an ocular lens system disposed on the proximal end of the shaft along the optical path, wherein the ocular lens system comprises a prism having a wedge disposed at a proximal end of the occular lens system, and wherein the wedge bends light rays exiting the ocular lens system to create a stereo line of convergence. 2. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the wedge is positioned along a proximal surface of a prism in the ocular lens system. 3. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the stereo line of convergence extends through a point that is approximately 50 mm from the distal end of the shaft. 4. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the wedge is formed by grinding a proximal end of the prism. 5. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the ocular lens system comprises a plurality of moveable lenses which provide independent adjustment of diopters and magnification. 6. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 5, the plurality of movable lenses further comprising: a first lens, a second lens, and a third lens, wherein the first, second, and third lenses are configured to be movable along the optical path to provide the independent adjustment of diopters, and wherein the first, second, and third lenses are configured to maintain the first lens stationary and to move the second and third lenses to provide the independent adjustment of magnification. 7. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 6 wherein the second lens is a negative lens. 8. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 6 wherein the first lens and the third lens are positive lenses. 9. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the ocular lens system, the relay lens system and the objective lens system are an integral unit. 10. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1, the relay lens system further comprising: a plurality of axially separated relay units, the relay units being interchangeable and each relay unit comprising an axially symmetric set of relay lenses, wherein a relay gap is disposed between each pair of adjacent relay units so that an associated relay intermediate image is formed therein. 11. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1, the relay lens system further comprising: a plurality of axially separated relay units, the relay units being interchangeable and each relay unit comprising an axially symmetric set of relay lenses; and an optical element disposed between each pair of adjacent relay units so that an intermediate image is formed in the optical element. 12. The endoscope of claim 11, wherein the optical element has a refractive index greater than one. 13. The stereoscopic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the relay lens system is separated from the ocular lens system by an ocular-relay gap, and wherein no intermediate image is disposed within the ocular-relay gap. 