A chamber monitoring system may include a parallel architecture in which a single sensor control system is coupled to a number of different processing chamber control board sensor lines. In an illustrative embodiment, a single rotation sensor such as a tachometer may reside in a central control unit remote from the processing chambers such that rotation data may be processed by a single system and thereafter routed according to a variety of different network communication protocols to the main system controller, a factory interface, or both. In this and other embodiments, pull-up networks in the central control unit and the chamber control boards are matched so as to reduce electrical signal anomalies such as crowbar effects. The central control unit may be programmed via a main system controller to operate according to user defined parameters, which in turn may enable the system to differentiate between certain operating states.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for monitoring the rotation of substrate supports in substrate processing chambers, comprising: a first rotating substrate support positioned in a first processing chamber; a second rotating substrate support positioned in a second processing chamber; a first sensor monitoring the first rotating substrate support; a second sensor monitoring the second rotating substrate support; a first sensor line coupling the first sensor to a first chamber board; a second sensor line coupling the second sensor to a second chamber board; a central control unit coupled to the first sensor line and the second sensor line, the central control unit processing first rotation data associated with the first rotating substrate support and second rotation data associated with the second rotating substrate support and determining rotation rates associated with the first and second rotating substrate supports; and one or more remote control systems connected to the central control unit, the one or more remote control systems receiving the first rotation data and the second rotation data from the central control unit, wherein the one or more remote control system transmits control parameters to the central control unit. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a digital serial output line connecting the central control unit to the one or more remote systems, the serial output line adapted to communicate with multiple devices that are connected in series with the serial output line. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the central control unit is configured to determine whether one of the first rotating substrate support or the second rotating substrate support is reciprocating rather than revolving and issue an alert to the one or more remote systems regarding the reciprocation of the first rotating substrate support or the second rotating substrate support. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the central control unit is configured to receive out-of-bounds conditions from the one or more remote control systems, the out-of-bounds conditions including a maximum rotational speed or a minimum rotational speed associated with the first rotating substrate support, the out-of-bounds conditions being used by the central control unit for determining that the rotational speed of the first rotating substrate support is greater than the maximum rotational speed or less than the minimum rotational speed. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a first pull-up network between the first sensor line and the central control unit; and a second pull-up network between the first sensor line and the first chamber board, wherein the first pull-up network substantially matches the second pull-up network. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising an opto-isolator between the first sensor and the central control unit that optically isolates signals received by the central control unit from the first sensor. 7. An apparatus for monitoring the rotation of substrate supports, comprising: a first interrupt port for receiving signals from a first digital sensor coupled to a first rotating substrate support; a second interrupt port for receiving signals from a second digital sensor coupled to a second rotating substrate support; a central processing unit including logic for processing first rotation data associated with the first digital sensor and second rotation data associated with the second digital sensor; a memory storing the first rotation data associated with the first digital sensor and the second rotation data associated with the second digital sensor; an input/output port for providing the first rotation data and the second rotation data to one or more remote systems; and a display unit for providing a visual representation of the first rotation data and the second rotation data. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a first opto-isolator within the first interrupt port and a second opto-isolator within the second interrupt port, the first opto-isolator and the second opt-isolator optically isolating signals received by the central processing unit from the first digital sensor and the second digital sensor. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the input/output port is a serial port transmitting data to more than two input/output devices connected in series to the serial port. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the input/output port is a network sensor bus. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the memory further stores out-of-bound conditions associated with the first digital sensor and the second digital sensor, the out-of-bounds conditions programmed by a user. 12. A method comprising: monitoring a rotating substrate support within a substrate processing chamber using a rotation sensor; transmitting a rotation signal from the rotation sensor to a chamber control board; receiving the rotation signal at a tachometer disposed on the chamber control board; processing the rotation signal to generate rotation data associated with the rotating substrate support; displaying a value associated with the rotation data on a display proximate the chamber control board; and transmitting the rotation data from the chamber control board to one or more remote control units for further processing. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising optically isolating the rotation signal received from the rotation sensor by the tachometer. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising optically isolating the rotation signal received from the rotation sensor by the chamber control board. 15. A method comprising: monitoring a first rotating substrate support within a first processing chamber and monitoring a second rotating substrate support within a second processing chamber using a first rotation sensor and a second rotation sensor, respectively; transmitting a first rotation signal from the first rotation sensor to a first chamber board and to a central control unit; transmitting a second rotation signal from the second rotation sensor to a second chamber board and to the central control unit; processing first rotation data within the central control unit, the first rotation data associated with the first rotating substrate support; processing second rotation data within the central control unit, the second rotation data associated with the second rotating substrate support; and providing the first rotation data and the second rotation data from the central control unit to one or more remote systems. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: determining whether one of the first rotating substrate support or the second rotating substrate support is reciprocating rather than revolving; issuing an alert to the one or more remote systems regarding the reciprocation of the first rotating substrate support or the second rotating substrate support. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving out-of-bounds conditions from one or more remote systems, the out-of-bounds conditions including a maximum rotational speed or a minimum rotational speed associated with the first rotating substrate support; determining that the rotational speed of the first rotating substrate support is greater than the maximum rotational speed or less than the minimum rotational speed; issuing an alert to the one or more remote systems regarding the out-of-bounds condition of the first rotating substrate support. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein a first pull-up network is included in a coupling of a first sensor line to the central control unit and a second pull-up network is included in a coupling of the first sensor line to the first chamber board; and wherein the first pull-up network substantially matches the second pull-up network. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein an opto-isolator is included in a coupling of a first sensor line to the central control unit to optically isolate signals received by the central control unit from the first rotation sensor. 