Disclosed is a surgical needle, or active cannula, that is capable of following a complex path through cavities and tissue within a patient's anatomy. The needle has a plurality of overlapping flexible tubes, each of which has a pre-formed curvature and a pre-determined flexibility. Each of the plurality of flexible tubes is selected based on their respective preformed curvature and flexibility so that a given overlap configuration causes the combination of overlapping flexible tubes to form a predetermined shape that substantially matches a desired path through the anatomy. By individually controlling the translation and angular orientation of each of the flexible tubes, the surgical needle may be guided through the anatomy according to the desired path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical cannula, comprising: a first flexible tube having a first pre-formed curvature; a second flexible tube having a second pre-formed curvature, wherein the second flexible tube is disposed within the first flexible tube; a first actuator coupled to the first flexible tube, wherein the first actuator controls a translation and a rotation of the first flexible tube; and a second actuator coupled to the second flexible tube, wherein the second actuator controls a rotation and translation of the second flexible tube independently of the translation and rotation of the first flexible tube wherein said first and second flexible tubes store elastic energy in a configuration such that said elastic energy is releasable by translation of said second flexible tube relative to said first flexible tube and at least one of said first and second flexible tubes is configured to change shape as said second flexible tube is translated relative to said first flexible tube. 2. The surgical cannula of claim 1, wherein the first flexible tube is stiffer than the second flexible tube. 3. The surgical cannula of claim 1, wherein the first flexible tube has a first stiffness and the second flexible tube has a second stiffness, and wherein the first stiffness and the second stiffness are substantially equal. 4. The surgical cannula of claim 1, wherein the first flexible tube comprises nitinol. 5. The surgical cannula of claim 1, wherein the first flexible tube has a straight portion. 6. The surgical cannula according to claim 1, wherein the first flexible tube comprises a region having a complex shape. 7. The surgical cannula according to claim 1, wherein the first flexible tube comprises a plurality of regions, wherein for each of the plurality of regions the first flexible tube has a different thickness. 8. The surgical cannula of claim 1, wherein the second flexible tube comprises nitinol. 9. The surgical cannula of claim 1, wherein the second flexible tube has a straight portion. 10. The surgical cannula according to claim 1, wherein the second flexible tube comprises a region having a complex shape. 11. The surgical cannula according to claim 1, wherein the second flexible tube comprises a plurality of regions, wherein for each of the plurality of regions the second flexible tube has a different thickness. 12. The surgical cannula of claim 1, further comprising a computer connected to the first actuator and the second actuator, wherein the computer comprises a computer readable medium encoded with a program for determining a shape of the surgical cannula based on a first flexible tube linear position; a first flexible tube angular orientation; the first pre-formed curvature; a second flexible tube linear position; a second flexible tube angular orientation; the second pre-formed curvature; and an overlap between the first flexible tube and the second flexible tube. 13. The surgical cannula of claim 1, further comprising: a third flexible tube having a third pre-formed curvature, wherein the third flexible tube is disposed within the second flexible tube; and a third actuator coupled to the third flexible tube. 14. The surgical cannula of claim 13, further comprising a computer connected to the first actuator, the second actuator, and the third actuator, the computer having a computer readable medium encoded with a program for determining a shape of the surgical cannula based on the a first flexible tube linear position; a first flexible tube angular orientation; the first pre-formed curvature; a second flexible tube linear position; a second flexible tube angular orientation; the second pre-formed curvature; a third flexible tube linear position; a third flexible tube angular orientation; the third pre-formed curvature; and an overlap between the first flexible tube, the second flexible tube, and the third flexible tube. 