Embodiments of the invention contemplate a method, apparatus and system that are used to support and position a substrate on a surface that is at a different temperature than the initial, or incoming, substrate temperature. Embodiments of the invention may also include a method of controlling the transfer of heat between a substrate and substrate support positioned in a processing chamber. The apparatus and methods described herein generally may also provide an inexpensive and simple way of accurately positioning a substrate on a substrate support that is positioned in a semiconductor processing chamber. Substrate processing chambers that can benefit from the various embodiments described herein include, but are not limited to RTP, CVD, PVD, ALD, plasma etching, and/or laser annealing chambers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: heating a substrate support having a first surface; delivering a flow of fluid to a plurality of ports formed in the substrate support, wherein the flow of fluid creates a cushion of fluid that is adapted to support the weight of the substrate; positioning the substrate on the cushion of fluid for a period of time sufficient to allow the substrate to reach a desired average temperature; aligning the substrate to the substrate support while the substrate is positioned on the cushion of fluid; reducing the flow of fluid to allow the substrate to contact at least a portion of the first surface; and performing a substrate process on the substrate disposed on the first surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the period of time is about 5 seconds to about 30 seconds. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate support is heated to a temperature between about 450 degrees Celsius and about 800 degrees Celsius. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the substrate is at a first substrate temperature when positioned on the cushion of fluid, and wherein the desired average temperature is greater than the first substrate temperature. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the aligning the substrate to the substrate support comprises waiting a desired period of time to allow the substrate disposed on the cushion of fluid to come in contact with two or more alignment features that are coupled to the substrate support. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the cushion of fluid comprises nitrogen, helium, argon, xenon, or krypton. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the cushion of fluid creates a gap between the substrate positioned thereon and the substrate support, and wherein the gap is between about 1 micrometer and 1000 micrometers. 8. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: heating a substrate support having a first surface; delivering a flow of fluid to a plurality of ports formed in the substrate support, wherein the flow of fluid creates a cushion of fluid that is adapted to support the weight of the substrate; positioning the substrate at a first substrate temperature on the cushion of fluid for a period of time sufficient to allow the substrate to reach a desired temperature greater than the first substrate temperature; aligning the substrate to the substrate support while the substrate is positioned on the cushion of fluid; reducing the flow of fluid to allow the substrate to contact at least a portion of the first surface; and performing a laser annealing process on the substrate disposed on the first surface. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the desired temperature is a uniform temperature across the substrate. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising positioning the first surface at an angle greater than about 0.02 degrees relative to the horizontal before positioning the substrate on the cushion of fluid. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the aligning the substrate to the substrate support comprises waiting a desired period of time to allow the substrate disposed on the cushion of fluid to come in contact with two or more alignment features that are coupled to the substrate support. 12. The method of claim 8, further comprising holding the substrate on the cushion of fluid for a period of time longer than the time required to align the substrate to the support. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the substrate is not in physical contact with the first surface when the substrate is positioned on the cushion of fluid. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the substrate is in physical contact with two or more alignment pins that are connected to the substrate support. 15. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: heating a substrate support having a first surface; delivering a flow of fluid to a plurality of ports formed in the substrate support, wherein the flow of fluid creates a cushion of fluid that is adapted to support the weight of the substrate; positioning the substrate at a first substrate temperature on the cushion of fluid; maintaining the substrate on the cushion of fluid for a period of time sufficient to allow the substrate to reach a desired second substrate temperature greater than the first substrate temperature; aligning the substrate to the substrate support while the substrate is positioned on the cushion of fluid; reducing the flow of fluid to allow the substrate to contact at least a portion of the first surface; and performing a substrate process on the substrate disposed on the first surface. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the substrate support is heated to a temperature between about 450 degrees Celsius and about 800 degrees Celsius. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the substrate process is a laser annealing process. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the cushion of fluid creates a gap between the substrate positioned thereon and the substrate support, and wherein the gap is between about 1 micrometer and 1000 micrometers. 