The present invention is directed to controlling plant pest infestation, and particularly plant nematode infestation, by inhibiting one or more biological functions in the plant pest. The invention discloses methods and compositions for use in controlling plant pest infestation by providing one or more different recombinant double stranded RNA molecules in the diet of the pest in order to achieve a reduction in pest infestation through suppression of pest gene expression. The invention is also directed to methods for making transgenic plants that express the double stranded RNA molecules, to methods for detecting cells comprising the disclosed sequences, and to methods for detecting the disclosed sequences in biological samples.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A recombinant nucleotide sequence comprising a polynucleotide and the reverse complement of the polynucleotide, wherein the polynucleotide is selected from the group consisting of: (a) a polynucleotide comprising the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22219; and (b) a polynucleotide complementary to at least 21 contiguous nucleotides of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22219, wherein expressing the recombinant nucleotide sequence in a plant cell, providing said plant cell in the diet of a Heterodera glycines pest and uptake of the contents of said cell by said pest results in the inhibition of expression of proteasome A-type subunit peptide (Pas-4) in the pest. 2. A method for suppressing a peptide coding sequence in a Heterodera glycines pest, comprising selecting a target polynucleotide sequence of a Heterodera glycines pest genome comprising at least from about 24 contiguous nucleotides, expressing the polynucleotide sequence as an RNA sequence that forms a double stranded RNA structure in a plant cell, and providing said plant cell in the diet of said Heterodera glycines pest, wherein uptake of the contents of said cell by said pest results in the morbidity and/or mortality of said pest, and wherein said target polynucleotide sequence comprises SEQ ID NO: 22219. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said RNA sequence comprises contiguous nucleotides from at least two or more target polynucleotide sequences from two or more different coding sequences of a Heterodera glycines pest. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein each of said two or more different coding sequences are isolated from different Heterodera glycines cDNA sequences. 5. A method for controlling Heterodera glycines infection in a soybean plant comprising expressing in the soybean plant the recombinant nucleotide sequence of claim 1, wherein the expressing results in a fertile transgenic soybean plant that exhibits resistance to infection by Heterodera glycines. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said DNA construct comprises at least one selectable marker providing herbicide tolerance to the transgenic soybean plant. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said transgenic soybean plant exhibits tolerance to the herbicide glyphosate. 8. The recombinant nucleotide sequence of claim 1 comprising SEQ ID NO:22219, and the complement thereof. 9. A transgenic soybean plant comprising a recombinant nucleotide sequence comprising a polynucleotide and the reverse complement of the polynucleotide, wherein the polynucleotide is selected from the group consisting of: (a) a polynucleotide comprising the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22219; and (b) a polynucleotide complementary to at least 21 contiguous nucleotides of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:22219, wherein expressing the recombinant nucleotide sequence in a plant cell, providing said plant cell in the diet of a Heterodera glycines pest and uptake of the contents of said cell by said pest results in the inhibition of expression of proteasome A-type subunit peptide (Pas-4) in the pest. 10. A seed produced from the plant of claim 9, wherein said seed comprises said nucleotide sequence. 11. A plant grown from the seed of claim 10. 