The present invention relates to a robot apparatus and an output control method adapted for the robot apparatus. The method includes steps of: receiving radio frequency (RF) signals of identification (ID) codes from several wireless communication devices within a predetermined area and time period; sensing people and obtaining the number of people within the predetermined area and time period; comparing current ID codes and the number of people in the predetermined area with what were determined previously, generating an update signal when the comparison is not equal; replacing the previous data with the current data; acquiring output data based on the associated output found in the output table; and performing an output based on the output data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system comprising: a robot apparatus; and several wireless communication devices, for sending radio frequency (RF) signals of identification (ID) codes; wherein the robot apparatus comprises: a communicating unit, for receiving the RF signals of ID codes from the wireless communication devices within a predetermined area and time period; a sensing unit, for sensing people and obtaining the number of people within the predetermined area and time period; a buffer unit, for storing previous and current condition data, wherein the previous data, which is initialized to null, comprise ID codes and the number of people updated and stored at a previous time, and the current data comprise current ID codes and the number of people in the predetermined area as determined by the communicating unit and the sensing unit; a storage unit, for storing an output table which respectively associates a plurality of outputs with various combinations and/or changes; a processing unit comprising: an ID presence determining (IDPD) module, for comparing the current ID codes and the number of people with previous data stored previously in the buffer unit, and generating an update signal when the comparison is not equal; an updating module, for replacing the previous data with the current data based on the update signal; and an output decision module, for acquiring output data in the storage unit associated with any differences between previous data and current data in the output table; and an output unit, for performing an output according to the output data. 2. The robot system as recited in claim 1, wherein when the comparison is equal, the output unit does not perform any output. 3. The robot system as recited in claim 1, wherein the output unit comprising: an action control module, for performing actions; a light module, for emitting light; a sound module, for outputting voice warning; and a communication module, for providing a communicative output. 4. The robot system as recited in claim 3, wherein the output decision module comprising: an action decision module, for controlling the action control module to perform actions based on the associated output found in the output table; a light decision module, for controlling the light module to emit light based on the associated output found in the output table; a sound decision module, for controlling the sound module to output voice warning based on the associated output found in the output table; and a communication decision module for controlling the communication module to provide the communicative output based on the associated output found in the output table. 5. The robot system as recited in claim 3, wherein the robot apparatus further comprises one or more of the following members: a movable head member; a movable tail member; and a plurality of movable limbs; and wherein the action control module comprises one or more of the following modules to control the corresponding members in the robot apparatus: a head control module; a tail control module; and a limb control module. 6. The robot system as recited in claim 1, wherein when the IDPD module determines different ID codes and different number of people by the communicating unit and the sensing unit within the predetermined area and time period, the output decision module acquires a first predetermined output data in the storage unit and the output unit performs a first output action. 7. The robot system as recited in claim 6, wherein the IDPD module determines same ID codes and different number of people by the communicating unit and the sensing unit within the predetermined area and time period, the output decision module acquires a second predetermined output data in the storage unit and the output unit performs a second output action which is different from the first output action. 8. An output control method adapted for a robot apparatus, wherein the robot apparatus includes a storage unit for storing an output table, which respectively associates a plurality of outputs with various combinations and/or changes, and a buffer unit for storing previous and current condition data, wherein the previous data is initialized to null, and the current data comprises current identification (ID) codes and the number of people, the output control method comprising: receiving radio frequency (RF) signals of the ID codes from several wireless communication devices within a predetermined area and time period; sensing people and obtaining the number of people within the predetermined area and time period; comparing the current the ID codes and the number of people in the predetermined area with the previous data; generating an update signal when the comparison is not equal; replacing the previous data with the current data based on the update signal; acquiring output data associated with any differences between previous data and current data in the output table; and performing an output based on the output data. 9. The output control method as recited in claim 8, further comprising not performing any output, when the comparison is equal. 10. The output control method as recited in claim 8, further comprising: acquiring a first predetermined output data in the storage unit and performing a first output action if different ID codes and different number of people within the predetermined area and time period are determined. 11. The output control method as recited in claim 10, further comprising: acquiring a second predetermined output data in the storage unit and performing a second output action which is different from the first output action if same ID codes and different number of people within the predetermined area and time period are determined. 12. A robot apparatus comprising: a communicating unit, for receiving radio frequency (RF) signals of identification (ID) codes from several wireless communication devices within a predetermined area and time period; a sensing unit, for sensing people and obtaining the number of people within the predetermined area and time period; a buffer unit, for storing previous and current condition data, wherein the previous data, which is initialized to null, comprise ID codes and the number of people updated and stored at a previous time, and the current data comprise ID codes and the number of people in the predetermined area as determined by the communicating unit and the sensing unit; a storage unit, for storing an output table which respectively associates a plurality of outputs with various combinations and/or changes; a processing unit comprising: an ID presence determining (IDPD) module, for comparing the current ID codes and the number of people with previous data stored previously in the buffer unit, and generating an update signal when the comparison is not equal; an updating module, for replacing the previous data with the current data based on the update signal; and an output decision module, for acquiring output data in the storage unit associated with any differences between previous data and current data in the output table; and an output unit, for performing an output according to the output data. 13. The robot apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein when the comparison is equal, the output unit does not perform any output. 14. The robot apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein the output unit comprising: an action control module, for performing actions; a light module, for emitting light; a sound module, for outputting voice warning; and a communication module, for providing a communicative output. 15. The robot apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein the output decision module further comprising: an action decision module, for controlling the action control module to perform actions based on the associated output found in the output table; a light decision module, for controlling the light module to emit light based on the associated output found in the output table; a sound decision module, for controlling the sound module to output voice warning based on the associated output found in the output table; and a communication decision module for controlling the communication module to provide the communicative output based on the associated output found in the output table. 16. The robot apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein the robot apparatus further comprises one or more of the following members: a movable head member; a movable tail member; and a plurality of movable limbs; and wherein the action control module comprises one or more of the following modules to control the corresponding members in the robot apparatus: a head control module; a tail control module; and a limb control module. 17. The robot apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein when the IDPD module determines different ID codes and different number of people by the communicating unit and the sensing unit within the predetermined area and time period, the output decision module acquires a first predetermined output data in the storage unit and the output unit performs a first output action. 18. The robot apparatus as recited in claim 17, wherein the IDPD module determines same ID codes and different number of people by the communicating unit and the sensing unit within the predetermined area and time period, the output decision module acquires a second predetermined output data in the storage unit and the output unit performs a second output action which is different from the first output action. 