A method for aligning a substrate to a process center of a support mechanism is provided. The method includes determining substrate thickness after substrate processing at a plurality of orientations and at a plurality of radial distances from a geometric center of the substrate. The method also includes deriving a set of process rate values from substrate thickness and process duration. The method further includes creating for a process rate an off-centered plot, which represents a substantially concentric circle whose points are a circumference of the off-centered plot having substantially the first process rate. The method yet also includes applying a curve-fitting equation to the off-centered plot to determine a set of parameters. The method yet further includes teaching a set of robot arms the set of parameters, thereby enabling the set of robot arms to align another substrate that is supported by the support mechanism with the process center.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for aligning a substrate to a process center of a support mechanism, wherein said process center representing a focal center for processing said substrate in a plasma processing chamber, comprising: determining a plurality of thickness values for said substrate after substrate processing at a plurality of orientations and at a plurality of radial distances from a geometric center of said substrate; deriving a set of process rate values from said plurality of thickness values and a process duration; creating an off-centered plot for a first process rate of said set of process rate values, wherein said off-centered plot represents a substantially concentric circle whose points on a circumference of said off-centered plot having substantially said first process rate; applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot to determine a set of parameters for offsetting said substrate in relation to said support mechanism; and teaching a set of robot arms said set of parameters, thereby enabling said set of robot arms to align another substrate that is supported by said support mechanism with said process center of said support mechanism when said set of robot arms positions said another substrate in said plasma processing chamber for processing. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of thickness values is determined by identifying a set of data points, wherein said set of data points includes pre-processing data points and post-processing data points. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said plasma processing chamber is one of a deposition chamber and a cleaning chamber. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said first process rate is one of a deposition rate and a cleaning rate. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said curve-fitting equation is a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said curve-fitting equation is a Least Square Fit on a sinusoidal curve. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said off-centered plot is a sinusoidal curve. 8. A method for aligning a substrate to a process center of a support mechanism, wherein said process center representing a focal center for processing said substrate in a plasma processing chamber, comprising: identifying a set of data points, wherein said set of data points includes a plurality of thickness values for said substrate at a plurality of orientations and at a plurality of radial distances from a geometric center of said substrate; processing said set of data points to calculate a set of parameters for determining said process center of said support mechanism; and teaching a set of robot arms said set of parameters, thereby enabling said set of robot arms to align another substrate that is supported by said support mechanism with said process center of said support mechanism when said set of robot arm s positions said another substrate in said plasma processing chamber for processing, wherein a metrology tool is employed to generate said plurality of radial distances from said neometric center of said substrate. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said processing of said set of data points includes calculating deposition depth values by determining differences between said post-processing data points and said pre-processing data points, deriving a set of deposition rate values from said deposition depth values and a process duration, generating thickness profiles for said plurality of orientations, extrapolating a set of radiuses from said thickness profiles, creating an off-centered plot for a first deposition rate of said set of deposition rate values, wherein said off-centered plot represents a substantially concentric circle whose points on a circumference of said off-centered plot having substantially said first deposition rate, and applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot to determine said set of parameters for offsetting said substrate in relation to said support mechanism. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein processing said set of data points includes calculating density depth values by determining differences between said post-processing data points and said pre-processing data points, deriving a set of cleaning rate values from said density depth values and a process duration, generating thickness profiles for said plurality of orientations, extrapolating a set of radiuses from said thickness profiles, creating an off-centered plot for a first cleaning rate of said set of cleaning rate values, wherein said off-centered plot represents a substantially concentric circle whose points on a circumference of said off-centered plot having substantially said first cleaning rate, and applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot to determine said set of parameters for offsetting said substrate in relation to said support mechanism. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein said plurality of thickness values is determined by identifying pre-processing data points and post-processing data points, wherein said pre-processing data points and said post-processing data points are generated using a scan pattern. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein said curve-fitting equation is one of a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform and a Least Square Fit on a sinusoidal curve. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said curve-fitting equation is one of a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform and a Least Square Fit on a sinusoidal curve. 14. An article of manufacture comprising a non-transitory program storage medium having computer readable code embodied therein, said computer readable code being configured for aligning a substrate to a process center of a support mechanism, wherein said process center representing a focal center for processing said substrate in a plasma processing chamber, comprising: computer readable code determining a plurality of thickness values for said substrate after substrate processing at a plurality of orientations and at a plurality of radial distances from a geometric center of said substrate; computer readable code deriving a set of process rate values from said plurality of thickness values and a process duration; computer readable code creating an off-centered plot for a first process rate of said set of process rate values, wherein said off-centered plot represents a substantially concentric circle whose points on a circumference of said off-centered plot having substantially same first process rate; computer readable code applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot to determine a set of parameters for offsetting said substrate in relation to said support mechanism; and computer readable code teaching a set of robot arms said set of parameters, thereby enabling said set of robot arms to align another substrate that is supported by said support mechanism with said process center of said support mechanism when said set of robot arms positions said another substrate in said plasma processing chamber for processing. 15. The article of manufacture of claim 14 wherein said plurality of thickness values is determined by including a computer readable code for identifying a set of data points, wherein said set of data points include pre-processing data points and post-processing data points. 16. The article of manufacture of claim 14 wherein said plasma processing chamber is one of a deposition chamber and a cleaning chamber. 17. The article of manufacture of claim 14 wherein said first process rate is one of a deposition rate and a cleaning rate. 18. The article of manufacture of claim 14 wherein said curve-fitting equation is one of a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform and a Least Square Fit on a sinusoidal curve. 19. The article of manufacture of claim 14 wherein said off-centered plot is a sinusoidal curve. 