At a battery exchange station a discharged battery is removed and a charged battery is inserted into an electric vehicle. The battery exchange station has various mechanisms to make this exchange. In some embodiments, the batteries are stored in a warehouse, where they are given an appropriate amount of charge. The charged batteries are moved from the warehouse by an automated robotic mechanism. The automated robotic system provides the charged battery to a battery exchange system which inserts the charged battery into the vehicle after it removes the discharged battery from the vehicle. The insertion and removal of the battery is done vertically, i.e., into and out of the bottom of the vehicle. The battery exchange system is located in a service bay under the vehicle. A sliding door system creates an opening above the service bay. The opening is of variable size depending on the size of the vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sliding door system for providing access to an underside of a vehicle, comprising: a door configured to slide in a first direction; and a conveyor system at least partially built into the door and configured to allow a surface of the conveyor system to slide relative to the door in a second direction opposite to the first direction while supporting at least one wheel of a vehicle on the surface of the conveyor system. 2. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein the door is slidably coupled to at least one rail. 3. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein said sliding door system is configured to couple to a service bay such that when the door slides it exposes an opening above the service bay. 4. The sliding door system of claim 3, wherein the opening exposed is of variable size, and is sizable with respect to one or more of the vehicle's wheelbase and track. 5. The sliding door system of claim 3, wherein the opening exposed is sized to receive a battery for the vehicle there through. 6. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor system is one or more conveyor belts each configured to support a distinct wheel. 7. The sliding door system of claim 6, wherein the one or more conveyor belts include a first conveyor belt and a second conveyor belt, wherein the first conveyor belt is larger than the second conveyor belt to support differently sized vehicles. 8. The sliding door system of claim 6, wherein the one or more conveyor belts each have an upper supporting surface, wherein the upper supporting surface is flush with the door. 9. The sliding door system of claim 6, wherein the one or more conveyor belts are free to rotate without power. 10. The sliding door system of claim 6, further comprising: one or more electric motors, wherein each electric motor rotates a respective conveyor belt. 11. The sliding door system of claim 10, wherein the one or more conveyor belts are configured to alter the yaw of the vehicle. 12. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor system is one or more roller pads each for supporting a distinct wheel. 13. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein the sliding door system is configured to alter the yaw of the vehicle. 14. The sliding door system of claim 13, further comprising: a vehicle translation system for automatically translating the vehicle onto the sliding door system. 15. The sliding door system of claim 14, further comprising: a vehicle pushing element which makes contact with one wheel of the vehicle and automatically translates the vehicle by pushing the vehicle forward. 16. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor system supports at least a portion of the vehicle's weight in a third direction substantially perpendicular to the first and second directions. 17. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein the door further comprises one or more rising supports in the door configured to support at least a portion of the weight of the vehicle when the one or more supports are in an extended position. 18. The sliding door system of claim 17, wherein the one or more rising supports are configured to alter the pitch or roll of the vehicle. 19. The sliding door system of claim 17, wherein the one or more rising supports each have an upper supporting surface that is flush with the door when the supports are in a retracted position. 20. The sliding door system of claim 1, further comprising an additional conveyor system separate from the door and configured to slide in the second direction while supporting at least one different wheel of the vehicle. 21. The sliding door system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor system comprises a first conveyor and a second conveyor parallel to the first conveyor, wherein the first conveyor is configured to support a front wheel of the vehicle, and the second conveyor is configured to support a rear wheel of the vehicle. 22. A sliding door system for providing access to an underside of a vehicle, the system comprising: a door coupled to a service bay and configured to slide in a first direction to expose an opening above the service bay; and a conveyor system at least partially built into the door, the conveyer system configured to: (i) support at least one wheel of a vehicle in a second direction substantially perpendicular to the first direction, and (ii) allow relative motion between the door and the at least one wheel of the vehicle when the door is slid in the first direction. 23. The sliding door system of claim 22, wherein the door further comprises a first guide coupled to the door, the first guide configured to restrict the relative motion between the door and the wheel when at least one wheel of the vehicle contacts the first guide. 24. The sliding door system of claim 23, wherein the first guide comprises at least one pressure sensor located at a position on the guide corresponding to at least one wheel of the vehicle, the pressure sensor configured to indicate whether the guide has contacted the at least one wheel. 