An ultrasonic clamp coagulator system that is configured to permit selective cutting, coagulation and clamping of tissue during surgical procedures. An elongated portion of the instrument can be configured for endoscopic applications and has an outside diameter of less than 6 mm. The system includes a one-piece torque wrench that is provided with cantilever arms aligned in an annular fashion about the centerline of the torque wrench. The cantilever arms include teeth in an inward perpendicular fashion in relation to cantilever arms. The clamp coagulator includes an outer tube retainer that includes spline gears projecting in a perpendicular fashion along the outer circumference of retainer. Torque is transmitted through the cantilever arms to the spline gears for attaching a handpiece to the clamp coagulator.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for assembling an ultrasonic transducer to an ultrasonic instrument comprising a housing having a distal and proximal end and a waveguide extending distally from the housing and the waveguide defining a longitudinal axis, the system comprising: a body having an axis; a deflecting torque delivery element flexibly attached to the body and disposed about the axis and arranged for flexing in a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis; and a torque receiving element aligned with the axis for receiving the torque delivery element. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the torque delivery element is at least one cantilever arm movably attached to the body and having a proximal and distal end annularly disposed about the axis. 3. The system of claim 2, where in the cantilever arm comprises at least one tooth located at the distal end. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the torque receiving element is operatively coupled to the waveguide and comprises at least one cam ramp. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the torque receiving element is operatively coupled to the distal end of the housing. 6. A surgical kit comprising: a) an ultrasonic surgical instrument comprising: i) a housing having a distal and proximal end; ii) a waveguide extending distally from the housing and defining a longitudinal axis; and iii) a torque receiving element aligned with the longitudinal axis; and b) a body having an axis and a deflecting torque delivery element flexibly attached to the body and disposed about said the axis and arranged for flexing in a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis for delivering torque to the torque receiving element. 7. The surgical kit of claim 6, wherein the ultrasonic surgical instrument and body are sterilized. 8. The surgical kit of claim 6, wherein the torque delivery element is at least one cantilever arm movably attached to the body and having a proximal and distal end annularly disposed about the axis. 9. The surgical kit of claim 8, where in the cantilever arm comprises at least one tooth located at the distal end. 10. The surgical kit of claim 6, wherein the torque receiving element is operatively coupled to the waveguide and comprises at least one cam ramp. 11. The surgical kit of claim 6, wherein the torque receiving element is operatively coupled to the distal end of the housing. 