Systems and methods for inspecting an object with a scanned beam of penetrating radiation. Scattered radiation from the beam is detected, in either a backward or forward direction. Characteristic values of the scattered radiation are compared to expected reference values to characterize the object. Additionally, penetrating radiation transmitted through the inspected object may be combined with scatter information. In certain embodiments, the inspected field of view is less than 0.1 steradians, and the detector is separate from the source of penetrating radiation and is disposed, with respect to the object, such as to subtend greater than 0.5 steradians in the field of view of the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for inspecting a target object comprising: a. generating a beam of penetrating radiation with a source of penetrating radiation; b. collimating the beam of penetrating radiation with a collimator to form a collimated beam; c. scanning the collimated beam across the target object; d. detecting radiation backscattered from the collimated beam by a plurality of interrogation points across the target object; e. deriving expected reference values based on reference to scanned portions of the target object; f. comparing characteristic values of the backscattered radiation to the expected reference values; and g. determining a descriptive category based on the comparing of which descriptive category characterizes the target object. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the penetrating radiation is x-ray radiation. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the descriptive category indicates abnormally high metallic content when the characteristic values are less than the expected reference values. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the descriptive category indicates abnormally high organic content when the characteristic values are greater than the expected reference values. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the descriptive category indicates a potential security threat according to pre-established security threat criteria. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the descriptive category indicates a confirmed security threat according to pre-established security threat criteria. 7. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: selecting a particular target object for illumination. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the selecting is based on optical surveillance of an area of interest. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein the selecting is based on non-optical surveillance of an area of interest. 10. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining the expected reference values based on illuminating a reference object with the penetrating radiation. 