A sensing device is disclosed. The sensing device includes a coded data sensor, a barcode sensor and a processor. The coded data sensor senses coded data portions disposed on respective positions on a surface of a product item. Each code data portion encodes an identity of the product item and the position of the respective code data portion. The barcode sensor senses a barcode on the surface of the product item. The processor generates data indicative of the position of each sensed coded data portion and the identity of the product item.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A sensing device including: a coded data sensor for sensing coded data portions disposed on a plurality of respective positions on a surface of a product item, each code data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item and the position of the respective code data portion; a barcode sensor for sensing a barcode on the surface of the product item; a processor for generating indicating data indicative of the position of each sensed coded data portion and the identity of the product item; and communication means for transferring the indicating data to a computer system. 2. The sensing device of claim 1, wherein the coded data sensor and barcode sensor utilise a 2D image sensor. 3. The sensing device of claim 1, wherein the coded data sensor and barcode sensor utilise a sensor adapted to sense a spot of radiation, and wherein in use, the sensor is moved relative to the product item to thereby sense the barcode. 4. The sensing device of claim 1, wherein the sensing device further includes a radiation source for exposing at least one of the coded data and the barcode to radiation. 5. The sensing device of claim 1, wherein the sensing device includes a laser for emitting a scanning beam, the scanning beam being directed in first and second orthogonal directions to thereby generate a raster scan pattern over a scanning patch, wherein the barcode and coded data portions are sensed when placed in the scanning patch. 6. The sensing device of claim 5, wherein the sensing device further includes at least one beam controller for directing the scanning beam along selected ones of a number of beam paths, each beam path extending into the scanning patch at a respective angle. 7. The sensing device of claim 5, wherein the scanning device further includes an amplitude modulator for modulating the amplitude of the scanning beam. 8. The sensing device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to: (a) determine from radiation sensed by the coded data sensor, using the modulation of the scanning beam, ambient light incident on the coded data sensor; (b) determine from radiation sensed by the coded data sensor, using the determined ambient light incident on the coded data sensor, the radiation reflected from the surface; and, (c) sense the coded data from the radiation reflected from the surface. 9. The sensing device of claim 1, wherein indicating data is further indicative of an orientation of the coded data sensor relative to the surface. 10. The sensing device of claim 1, wherein indicating data is further indicative of movement of the coded data sensor relative to the surface resulting from the coded data sensor sensing a plurality of coded data portions. 