Systems and methods are presented that enable a legged robot to maintain its balance when subjected to an unexpected force. In the reflex phase, the robot withstands the immediate effect of the force by yielding to it. In one embodiment, during the reflex phase, the control system determines an instruction that will cause the robot to perform a movement that generates a negative rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at its centroid in a magnitude large enough to compensate for the destabilizing effect of the force. In the recovery phase, the robot recovers its posture after having moved during the reflex phase. In one embodiment, the robot returns to a statically stable upright posture that maximizes the robot's potential energy. In one embodiment, during the recovery phase, the control system determines an instruction that will cause the robot to perform a movement that increases its potential energy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining instructions to send to a legged robot to recover a posture, the method comprising: for a plurality of successive moments in time: determining an instruction to send to the robot, wherein determining the instruction comprises: determining a present configuration of the robot; determining a desired configuration of the robot based on an optimization algorithm that maximizes a gravitational potential energy of the robot and based on the present configuration; and determining an instruction to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve the desired configuration; and wherein a gravitational potential energy of a present configuration of the robot increases at each successive moment in time. 2. A method for determining instructions to send to a legged robot subjected to a force, the method comprising: determining a first set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to yield to the force; and determining a second set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve a stable upright posture, wherein determining the second set of instructions comprises: for a plurality of successive moments in time: determining an instruction to send to the robot, wherein determining the instruction comprises: determining a present configuration of the robot; determining a desired configuration of the robot based on an optimization algorithm that maximizes a gravitational potential energy of the robot and based on the present configuration; and determining an instruction to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve the desired configuration; and wherein a gravitational potential energy of a present configuration of the robot increases at each successive moment in time. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the stable upright posture maximizes the robot's gravitational potential energy. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein executing the second set of instructions causes the robot to perform a movement that increases the robot's gravitational potential energy. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the second set of instructions further comprises determining a gravitational potential energy surface for the robot, wherein the gravitational potential energy surface comprises gravitational potential energy values, and wherein each gravitational potential energy value is a function of the robot's configuration. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the second set of instructions further comprises navigating the gravitational potential energy surface to reach a maximum value of the gravitational potential energy surface. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the desired configuration of the robot based on the optimization algorithm and based on the present configuration comprises determining the desired configuration of the robot based on the optimization algorithm and based on the present configuration and based on a static joint torque of the robot. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the stable upright posture minimizes the robot's static joint torque. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the first set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the first set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the desired rate of change of the robot's angular momentum at the robot's centroid is proportional to a horizontal deviation of the robot's center of pressure from the robot's center of mass. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the first set of instructions to send to the robot comprises determining the first set of instructions to send to the robot responsive to a desired rate of change of the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the desired rate of change of the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid is proportional to the robot's linear momentum at the robot's centroid. 13. A computer program product for determining instructions to send to a legged robot subjected to a force, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer readable instructions which, when executed in a computer system, cause the computer system to perform a method comprising: determining a first set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to yield to the force; and determining a second set of instructions to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve a stable upright posture, wherein determining the second set of instructions comprises: for a plurality of successive moments in time: determining an instruction to send to the robot, wherein determining the instruction comprises: determining a present configuration of the robot; determining a desired configuration of the robot based on an optimization algorithm that maximizes a gravitational potential energy of the robot and based on the present configuration; and determining an instruction to send to the robot that will cause the robot to achieve the desired configuration; and wherein a gravitational potential energy of a present configuration of the robot increases at each successive moment in time. 14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the stable upright posture maximizes the robot's gravitational potential energy. 15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein executing the second set of instructions causes the robot to perform a movement that increases the robot's gravitational potential energy. 16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein determining the second set of instructions further comprises determining a gravitational potential energy surface for the robot, wherein the gravitational potential energy surface comprises gravitational potential energy values, and wherein each gravitational potential energy value is a function of the robot's configuration. 17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein determining the second set of instructions further comprises navigating the gravitational potential energy surface to reach a maximum value of the gravitational potential energy surface. 18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein determining the desired configuration of the robot based on the optimization algorithm and based on the present configuration comprises determining the desired configuration of the robot based on the optimization algorithm and based on the present configuration and based on a static joint torque of the robot. 19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the stable upright posture minimizes the robot's static joint torque. 