A media storage library for storing a plurality of media cartridges is provided. The media storage library includes at least one media transfer mechanism, and a plurality of storage panels for storing media cartridges, including at least a first movable storage panel. The first storage panel is movable from the first position to a second position, and each storage panel of the plurality of movable storage panels includes at least a first access face for the at least one media transfer mechanism to access the media cartridges. An access space is formed between the first movable storage panel and a second storage panel, and the at least one media transfer mechanism is able to access the media cartridges via the access space and the first access face.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media storage library comprising a plurality of media cartridges, the media storage library comprising: a media transfer mechanism; a first movable storage panel that stores a first media cartridge and a second media cartridge, the first movable storage panel including a first access face and a second access face that is substantially perpendicular to the first access face, the first movable storage panel being movable between a first position and a second position; and a second storage panel, wherein when the first movable storage panel is in the first position an access space is formed between the first movable storage panel and the second storage panel, and wherein when the first movable storage panel is in the second position the first movable storage panel has moved into the access space, wherein the media transfer mechanism is able to alternatively access (i) the first media cartridge via the first access face when the first movable storage panel is in the first position, and (ii) the second media cartridge via the second access face when the first movable storage panel is in the second position. 2. The media storage library of claim 1 wherein the media transfer mechanism moves translationally within the access space. 3. The media storage library of claim 1 wherein the first movable storage panel is movable in a linear direction between the first position and the second position. 4. The media storage library of claim 1 wherein the second access face is not accessible to the media transfer mechanism when the first movable storage panel is in the first position. 5. The media storage library of claim 1 wherein the second storage panel includes a first access face, and wherein the first access face of the first movable storage panel opposes the first access face of the second storage panel. 6. The media storage library of claim 5 wherein the second storage panel stores a third media cartridge, and wherein the media transfer mechanism is able to access the third media cartridge via the first access face of the second storage panel. 7. The media storage library of claim 1 wherein the second storage panel is movable from a first position to a second position. 8. The media storage library of claim 7 wherein the second storage panel stores a third media cartridge and a fourth media cartridge, the second storage panel including a first access face and a second access face that is angled relative to the first access face, and wherein the media transfer mechanism is able to alternatively access the third media cartridge via the first access face of the second storage panel when the second storage panel is in the first position and the fourth media cartridge via the second access face of the second storage panel when the second storage panel is in the second position. 9. The media storage library of claim 1 wherein the second storage panel is in a fixed position. 10. A method for accessing a first media cartridge and a second media cartridge within a media storage library, the method comprising the steps of: storing the first media cartridge and the second media cartridge in a first movable storage panel, the first movable storage panel including a first access face and a second access face that is substantially perpendicular to the first access face; forming an access space between the first movable storage panel and a second storage panel when the first movable storage panel is in a first position; accessing the first media cartridge with a media transfer mechanism via the first access face when the first movable storage panel is in the first position; moving the first movable storage panel to a second position where the first movable storage panel is positioned substantially within the access space; and accessing the second media cartridge with the media transfer mechanism via the second access face when the first movable storage panel is in the second position. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of moving includes the step of moving the first movable storage panel in a linear direction between the first position and the second position. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of forming includes the second storage panel having a first access face, and wherein the first access face of the first movable storage panel opposes the first access face of the second storage panel. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the steps of storing a third media cartridge in the second storage panel, and accessing the third media cartridge with the media transfer mechanism via the first access face of the second storage panel. 14. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of moving the second storage panel between a first position and a second position. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of storing a third media cartridge and a fourth media cartridge in the second storage panel, the second storage panel including a first access face and a second access face that is angled relative to the first access face; accessing the third media cartridge with the media transfer mechanism via the first access face of the second storage panel when the second storage panel is in the first position; and accessing the fourth media cartridge with the media transfer mechanism via the second access face of the second storage panel when the second storage panel is in the second position. 16. The method of claim 10 wherein the step of forming includes the second storage panel being in a fixed position. 17. A media storage library comprising a plurality of media cartridges, the media storage library comprising: a media transfer mechanism; a first movable storage panel that stores a first media cartridge and a second media cartridge, the first movable storage panel including a first access face and a second access face that is substantially perpendicular to the first access face, the first movable storage panel being movable between a first position and a second position; a second storage panel for storing a third media cartridge and a fourth media cartridge, the second storage panel including a third access face and a fourth access face that is angled relative to the third access face, the second storage panel being movable between a first position and a second position, wherein an access space is formed between the first movable storage panel and the second storage panel when the first movable storage panel is in the first position and the second storage panel is in the first position, wherein when the first movable storage panel is in the second position the first movable storage panel has been moved into the access space, wherein when the second storage panel is in the second position the second storage panel has been moved into the access space, and wherein the media transfer mechanism is able to alternatively access (i) the first media cartridge via the first access face when the first movable storage panel is in the first position, (ii) the second media cartridge via the second access face when the first movable storage panel is in the second position, (iii) the third media cartridge via the third access face when the second storage panel is in the first position, and (iv) the fourth media cartridge via the fourth access face when the second storage panel is in the second position. 18. The media storage library of claim 17 wherein the first access face opposes the third access face, and wherein the third access face and the fourth access face are substantially perpendicular to one another. 