An energy absorbing device suitable for wearing by humans, or for use in a prosthetic device or robot is provided. The device including support structures which may conform to the contours of limbs, and have the capability of being removeably attached to the limbs. Plates are attached, either fixedly or slideably, to the support structures and adjacent ends of plates may be joined with a flexible link. As the limbs flex at a joint, the slideably attached plate slides to accommodate the rotational motion between the limbs at the joint.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a first plate, a second plate and a third plate, at least two of the first, the second or the third plate connected by a journal; a first slide plate and a second slide plate, slideably attachable to the first plate and the second plate, respectively; wherein the first slide plate and the second slide plate are each connectable to the third plate by a hinge or flexure located at a portion of each of the first and second slide plate proximal to the third plate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least the first and the second plates are attached to a flexible sleeve. 3. The device according to claim 1, where the flexible sleeve is comprised of a material which is conformable to a human body part. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible sleeve is a plurality of sleeves. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the flexible sleeve is approximately a portion of a conical section. 6. The device according to claim 1, wherein the first plate and the second plate are sized and shaped to approximately conform to the shape of a human body part. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the second plate includes an engaging structure for slideably mating with a complimentary mating structure on the second slide plate. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the first plate is attachable to a first structural member and the second plate is attachable to a second structural member. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first or the second slide plate is translatable with respect to a corresponding first plate or second plate by an actuator connected between at least one of the first slide plate or the second slide plate and one of the first plate, the second plate, or the third plate. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the actuator is a hydraulic actuator. 11. The device of claim 9, wherein the actuator is a linear actuator. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the linear actuator includes a motor. 13. A method of protecting or manipulating a body part, the method comprising: providing a first, a second plate and a third plate, at least two of the first, the second or the third plates journally connected to each other; providing a first slide plate and a second slide plate, each slide plate adapted to be slidably mounted to a corresponding first plate or second plate; connecting at least one of the first slide plate or the second slide plate to the third plate with a hinge or flexure, wherein the a portion of the hinge or the flexure is attached to a portion of the corresponding first slide plate or second slide plate proximal to the third plate. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: providing a linear actuator disposed between at least two of the first slide plate, the second slide plate, the first plate, the second plate, or the third plate, so as to permit the actuator to translate at the least the two plates with respect to each other. 