A radiosurgery system is described that delivers a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, based on ocular imaging, which leads to direction of an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of an ocular structure is tracked and related to a radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial aids in positioning the system. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system, for treating an eye with radiation, comprising: an x-ray radiation source that emits an x-ray beam; an alignment system that aligns the beam, based on fiducials on an outer surface of the eye, with an axis traversing the eye; a gating mechanism that reduces radiation emission from the radiation source when the beam is not aligned with the axis; and a communication link between the alignment system and the gating mechanism that communicates data, regarding alignment of the beam with the axis, from the alignment system to the gating mechanism. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the alignment system comprises a light emitter that emits a light beam that is substantially aligned with an axis of the radiation source. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the light emitter comprises a laser. 4. The system of claim 2, further comprising a sensor that detects a reflection of the light beam. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said axis traversing the eye is different from an axis that the emitted x-ray beam follows through the eye. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said axis traversing the eye is substantially perpendicular to a center of the cornea. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an image detection system, in communication with the alignment system, that detects at least one of a fundus, a limbus, a cornea, and a reflection off a surface of the eye. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein, when the image detection system detects a threshold movement of the eye, the gating mechanism ceases or reduces radiation emission from the radiation source. 9. A system, for delivery of an x-ray beam to an eye of a patient, comprising: at least one x-ray source that, in use, is positioned within about 15 cm of the retina of the eye and that emits an x-ray beam that is directed at the eye; and a laser that emits a laser beam toward the eye, the laser beam being substantially aligned with a long axis of the x-ray source and providing an indication of a direction of the x-ray beam emitted from the source; wherein the laser beam is aligned based on fiducials on an outer surface of the eye. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the laser beam is directed such that the indication of a direction of the x-ray beam is provided on a surface of the eye. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising an eye contact member that is configured to contact the eye and maintain the eye in a substantially fixed position during delivery of the x-ray beam to the eye. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the laser beam is directed such that the indication of a direction of the x-ray beam is provided on a surface of the eye contact member. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the eye contact member comprises a material that is reflective, at least in part, of light having a same wavelength as the laser beam. 14. The system of claim 9, further comprising a power supply adapted to deliver between about 10 mA and about 800 mA of current to an anode of an x-ray tube that delivers the x-ray beam. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said anode is one of a stationary anode and a rotating anode. 16. A radiotherapy system, for treating diseased eye tissue, comprising: an x-ray source that emits an x-ray beam, the x-ray beam having a cross-sectional width of no more than about 6 mm, the x-ray source having a first axis that the x-ray beam follows when the beam is emitted toward an eye; and a first light guide that emits a light beam toward the eye along a second axis that is aligned, based on fiducials on an outer surface of the eye, with the first axis, the light beam providing an indication of the first axis. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the first axis and the second axis are substantially collinear. 18. The system of claim 16, further comprising a second light guide that projects a beam along a third axis that substantially intersects the second axis. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the first light guide comprises a laser. 