A method and system provides medical image processing and 3-dimensional image construction of an examination subject. A user is enabled to selectively orient an x-ray imaging system having a variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis relative to an examination subject support for holding an examination subject. A non-planar image data acquisition path is set for the x-ray imaging system oriented around the variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis in response to user instruction. Acquisition of image data of the examination subject is initiated by the x-ray imaging system at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path. A 3-dimensional image is constructed from the acquired image data such that any metal artifacts introduced by radio-opaque objects within the examination subject are minimized. The 3-dimensional image is displayed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for medical image processing and 3-dimensional image construction of an examination subject, comprising the activities of: enabling a user to selectively orient an x-ray imaging system having a variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis relative to an examination subject support for holding an examination subject; setting a non-planar image data acquisition path including a radio-opaque object within the examination subject for the x-ray imaging system oriented around the variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis in response to user instruction; initiating acquisition of image data representing, a plurality of images of the examination subject including a radio-opaque object within the examination subject by the x-ray imaging system at a corresponding plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path and a plurality of images of the examination subject excluding said radio-opaque object at a corresponding plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path; constructing a 3-dimensional image from the acquired image data both including and excluding said radio-opaque object such that image artifacts introduced by said radio-opaque object within the examination subject are diffused over a volume and reduced; and displaying the 3-dimensional image. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of constructing includes collecting and constructing multiple images acquired along various angles and planes along the non-planar image data acquisition path from the acquired image data in order to provide the 3-dimensional image such that any introduced artifacts are minimized. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of setting includes providing a user interface to a user to select the non-planar image data acquisition path by selecting at least one of: a. a list of preset acquisition paths; and b. a region of interest and having the x-ray imaging system automatically determine the acquisition path based on said region. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of initiating acquisition includes one of: a. enabling a user to move the examination subject support in a cranial-caudal direction allowing the x-ray imaging system to acquire image data at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path; or b. automatically moving the x-ray imaging system in a cranial-caudal direction allowing the x-ray imaging system to acquire image data at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of initiating acquisition includes enabling a user to move the examination subject support and automatically moving the x-ray imaging system in coordination with each other in a cranial-caudal direction allowing the x-ray imaging system to acquire image data at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path and including the steps of initiating acquisition of image data representing a plurality of images of the examination subject including said radio-opaque object at a corresponding plurality of points along a planar image data acquisition path and constructing said 3-dimensional image from the acquired image data comprising images acquired on the non-planar and planar image data acquisition paths. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of setting the non-planar image data acquisition path includes evaluating non-planar image data acquisition paths to detect impediments in the non-planar image data acquisition path and adjusting the non-planar image data acquisition path in response to any detected impediments to avoid the impediment. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the activity of evaluating includes simulating non-planar image data acquisition paths to determine an optimal acquisition path. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of initiating acquisition includes enabling a user to coordinate rotational and orbital movement of the x-ray imaging system to acquire image data at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray imaging system includes a C-arm having a radiation detector and an x-ray source facing each other on opposing ends of the C-arm and a multi-axis robot device connected to the C-arm providing the C-arm with 360 degree range of motion. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of setting further comprises the activities of: presenting a menu of a plurality of preset non-planar image data acquisition paths; enabling user selection of one of the preset non-planar image data acquisition paths for obtaining the 3-dimensional image; and automatically positioning the x-ray imaging system in response to the selected non-planar image data acquisition path. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity of enabling a user includes enabling the user to concurrently view previously constructed images of the examination subject to determine whether any radio-opaque objects are present. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the previously constructed images are at least one of: a. 3-dimensional images; b. 2-dimensional images; and c. a combination of 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional images. 13. A method for medical image processing and 3-dimensional image construction of an examination subject, comprising the activities of: enabling a user to selectively orient an x-ray imaging system having a variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis relative to an examination subject support for holding an examination subject; setting a non-planar image data acquisition path including a radio-opaque object within the examination subject for the x-ray imaging system oriented around the variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis in response to user instruction; initiating acquisition of image data representing a plurality of images of the examination subject including a radio-opaque object within the examination subject by the x-ray imaging system at a corresponding plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path; constructing a 3-dimensional image from the acquired image data such that image artifacts introduced by said radio-opaque object within the examination subject are diffused over a volume and reduced; and displaying the 3-dimensional image wherein the activity of setting includes adjusting the 3-dimensional acquisition axis by automatically changing the non-planar image data acquisition path to minimize introduced metal artifacts and including the activity of selecting said non-planar image data acquisition path from a plurality of paths in response to size or shape of said radio-opaque object. 14. A system for medical image processing and 3-dimensional image construction of an examination subject comprising: a support surface on which an examination subject is placed; an x-ray imaging system for acquiring image data, the x-ray imaging system having a variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis relative to the examination subject on said support surface; a control processor electrically coupled to the x-ray imaging system for enabling a user to selectively set a non-planar image data acquisition path including a radio-opaque object within the examination subject for the x-ray imaging system oriented around the variable 3-dimensional acquisition axis and initiating acquisition of image data representing, a plurality of images of the examination subject including a radio-opaque object within the examination subject by the x-ray imaging system at a corresponding plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path in response to user instruction and a plurality of images of the examination subject excluding said radio-opaque object at a corresponding plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path; an image processor for constructing a 3-dimensional image from the acquired image data both including and excluding said radio-opaque object and image artifacts introduced by said radio-opaque object within the examination subject are diffused over a volume and reduced; and a monitor for displaying the 3-dimensional image. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the image processor collects and constructs multiple images acquired along various angles and planes along the non-planar image data acquisition path from the acquired image data in order to provide the 3-dimensional image such that any introduced artifacts are minimized. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the 3-dimensional acquisition axis is adjusted by automatically changing the acquisition path in order to minimize introduced metal artifacts and said control processor selects said non-planar image data acquisition path from a plurality of paths. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the user selectively sets the non-planar image data acquisition path by selecting at least one of: a. a list of preset acquisition paths; and b. a region of interest and having the x-ray imaging system automatically determine the acquisition path based on said region. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein said examination subject support is moved by a user in a cranial-caudal direction allowing the x-ray imaging system to acquire image data at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein said control processor automatically causes said x-ray imaging system to move in a cranial-caudal direction allowing the x-ray imaging system to acquire image data at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein said examination subject support is moved by a user and said x-ray imaging system is automatically moved by said control processor in coordination with each other in a cranial-caudal direction allowing said x-ray imaging system to acquire image data at a plurality of points along the non-planar image data acquisition path. 21. The system of claim 14, wherein the control processor evaluates non-planar image data acquisition paths to detect impediments in the non-planar image data acquisition path and adjusting the non-planar image data acquisition path in response to any detected impediments to avoid the impediment. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein the evaluation of non-planar image data acquisition paths includes simulating non-planar image data acquisition paths to determine an optimal acquisition path. 23. The system of claim 14, wherein the x-ray imaging system includes a C-arm having a radiation detector and an x-ray source facing each other on opposing ends of the C-arm and a multi-axis robot device connected to the C-arm providing the C-arm with 360 degree range of motion. 24. The system of claim 14, wherein the x-ray imaging system includes a C-arm having a radiation detector and an x-ray source facing each other on opposing ends of the C-arm and a pedestal connected to the C-arm, said pedestal enabling orbital and rotational movement of said C-arm. 25. The system of claim 14, further comprising a user interface including an input mechanism for receiving a user instruction and wherein said control processor presents on said monitor a menu of a plurality of user-selectable preset non-planar image data acquisition paths and said x-ray imaging system is automatically positioned in response to the selected non-planar image data acquisition paths. 26. The system of claim 14, wherein said control processor provides previously constructed images of the examination subject viewed concurrently on said monitor to determine if and where any radio-opaque objects are present. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the previously constructed images are at least one of: a. 3-dimensional images; b. 2-dimensional images; and c. combination of 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional images. 