A system, a method, and a programmed device for measurement of translocational activity among cellular compartments process magnified images of cellular material exposed to an agent by segmenting and compartmentalizing the images and then measuring fractional localized intensity of two or more components in the segmented, compartmentalized image. The measured fractional localized intensities are compared to determine translocation of cellular material among the measured components caused by the agent.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method executable by an automated microscopy platform for measuring cell activity represented in an image of cells treated with an agent, the image obtained with the automated microscopy platform, comprising: segmenting cellular components in the image; separating segmented components of overlapping cells in the image; and determining, in the segmented, separated image, translocation of cellular material between first cellular compartments and second cellular compartments caused by the agent, by: measuring a first intensity of the cellular material in a first cellular compartment a of a cell; measuring a second intensity of the cellular material in a second cellular compartment b of the cell; and, determining fractional localized intensity F.sub.a of the cellular material in the first cellular compartment according to a ratio of the first intensity to a sum of at least the first and second intensities, according to: .di-elect cons..times..function..di-elect cons..times..function. ##EQU00014## where I(x, y), the emission intensity at a pixel location (x, y) in a cellular compartment, is determined according to: .function..intg..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times.d ##EQU00015## in which I.sub.0 is an incident excitation intensity, Q is a quantum yield, .epsilon. is an extinction coefficient, u is a local fluorophore concentration at pixel location (x, y), and z is the thickness of a column of cellular material at pixel location (x, y). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein segmenting includes enhancing contrast between the first cellular compartments and the background of the image, and between the second cellular compartments and the background of the image. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein separating includes tessellating the Image. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: segmenting includes enhancing contrast between the first cellular compartments and the background of the image, and between the second cellular compartments and the background of the image; and, separating includes tessellating the image. 