A storage library is described including a first tape drive that is identified as a target tape drive to a host via a first address and a second tape drive that is masked from being identified by the host. The storage library further includes a controller that is linked with a switch system that shifts the first address to the second drive from the first drive such that after the shift, the second drive is identified as the target drive to the host and the first drive is masked from being identified by the host.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage library comprising: a first drive identifiable as a target drive to a host via a first address; a second drive; the first drive and the second drive influenced by a switching system that reassigns the first address to identify the second drive as the target drive to the host; a plurality of removable storage elements adapted to be received by either the first drive or the second drive in a cooperating relationship capable of performing storage operations; a first drive bay that accommodates the first drive and a second drive bay that accommodates the second drive wherein the first address is either maintained by the first drive bay, when identifying the first drive as the target drive, or is maintained by the second drive bay, when identifying the second drive as the target drive. 2. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the target drive is further identifiable by at least a second address used in conjunction with the first address. 3. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the first address is a storage element address and wherein the target drive is further identifiable via a World Wide Name. 4. The storage library of claim 3 wherein the target drive is further identifiable via a Serial Number associated with the first drive. 5. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the second drive is masked from being identifiable to the host until the second drive is switched to the target drive and the first drive is masked from being identifiable to the host after the second drive is switched to the target drive. 6. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the switching system reassigns the first address from the first drive bay to the second drive bay. 7. The storage library of claim 6 wherein the switching system reassigns the first address from the first drive bay to the second drive bay when the first drive is disabled. 8. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the switching system reassigns the first address without interrupting power to the storage library. 9. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the switching system reassigns the first address from the first drive bay to the second drive bay without the host having any knowledge of the address switch. 10. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the switching system is comprised by a processing device. 11. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the first address is maintained by either the first drive or the second drive. 12. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the first drive is selected from a group consisting of: a disc drive docking station, a disc drive magazine docking station, a solid state storage device docking station, and a drive configured to receive independent storage discs. 13. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the first and the second drives are each tape drives and the plurality of removable storage element are tape cartridges. 14. The storage library of claim 1 wherein at least one of the removable storage elements is selected from a group consisting of: disc drives adapted for mobility from standard disc drives, mobile disc drive magazine, solid state storage devices adapted for mobility, independent storage discs. 15. The storage library of claim 1 wherein the switching system is comprised by the storage library. 16. A storage library comprising: a first drive identified as a target drive to a host via at least a first address; a second drive that is masked from being identified by the host when the first drive is the target drive; a controller linked with a switch system that is configured to shift the at least first address to the second drive from the first drive wherein after the shift the second drive is identified as the target drive to the host and the first drive is masked from being identified by the host; and a plurality of removable storage element adapted to cooperate with either the first drive or the second drive to perform storage operations; a first drive bay that accommodates a first drive and a second drive bay that accommodates a second drive; a first address that is either maintained by the first drive bay, when identifying the first drive as the target drive, or is maintained by the second drive bay, when identifying the second drive as the target drive. 17. The storage library of claim 16 further comprising a means for switching from the target drive from the first drive to the second drive. 18. The storage library of claim 16 further comprising a means for masking a drive from the host. 19. A method for directing storage traffic in a storage library comprising: indentifying a first drive as a target drive to a host via at least a first address; reassigning the first address to a second drive so that the second drive is identified as the target drive to the host, wherein the at least a first address is maintained by a drive bay that accommodates one of the drives; loading one of a plurality of removable storage elements included in the storage library in a cooperating relationship with the target drive; and receiving storage related communications from the host directed to the target drive. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the reassigning step is performed after the first drive is disabled. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising replacing the first drive with a third drive and reassigning the first address to the third drive without altering power to the storage library. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein the host has no knowledge that the target drive changed from the first drive to the second drive. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein the target drive is identified via a storage element address maintained by the library and a Serial Number and World Wide Name associated with the target drive. 24. The method of claim 19 wherein the reassigning step is accomplished by at least one command executed by touching a touch screen associated with the storage library. 