Methods and apparatus for applying internal features or complex mechanical structures to a surface of a metal part are disclosed. According to one aspect of the present invention, a method for creating an assembly that includes a substrate and a molded piece involves obtaining the substrate, and forming at least one binding feature on a surface of the substrate. The method also includes molding on a surface of the binding feature and the surface of the substrate. Molding on the surface of the binding feature and the surface of the substrate mechanically binds the molded piece to the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly comprising: a metal part, the metal part including a (i) a first surface and a second surface; (ii) at least one perforation; and (iii) a binding feature, the binding feature having a binding surface formed by back filling an extrudable material into the at least one perforation using an extrudable material and extruding the extrudable material through the at least one perforation such that the binding feature extends through the first surface of the metal part but not the second surface of the metal part; and a molded piece, the molded piece being molded on the first surface and the binding surface, wherein the molded piece includes a mechanical feature, wherein the first surface includes an undercut, and the molded piece is molded into the undercut. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the binding feature includes at least one protrusion, and the molded piece is molded over the protrusion. 3. The assembly of claim 2 wherein the protrusion is formed from a glue. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the perforation is a void and the first surface is a top surface of the metal part, the metal part further including a bottom surface through which the void extends. 5. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the molded piece is formed from a plastic or a resin. 6. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the metal part is an insert for an electronic device or a housing for the electronic device. 7. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the extrudable material is an ultra violet (UV) cured glue. 8. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the micro perforation is substantially invisible and not visible to the human eye. 9. A device comprising: an electronic component; and a housing, the housing being arranged to at least partially house the electronic component, wherein the housing includes a metal part and a molded piece, the metal part including (i) a first surface and a second surface; (ii) at least one perforation; and (iii) a binding feature having a binding surface formed by back filling an extrudable material into the at least one perforation using an extrudable material and extruding the extrudable material through the at least one perforation such that the binding feature is formed on the first surface of the metal part but not the second surface of the metal part, the molded piece being molded on the first surface and the binding surface, wherein the first surface includes an undercut, and the molded piece is molded into the undercut. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein the binding feature includes at least one protrusion, and the molded piece is molded over the protrusion. 11. The device of claim 9 wherein the perforation is a void and the first surface is a top surface of the metal part, the metal part further including a bottom surface through which the void extends. 12. The device of claim 9 wherein the molded piece is formed from a plastic or a resin. 13. The device of claim 9 wherein the at least one perforation is at least one micro perforation. 14. The device of claim 13 wherein the extrudable material is an ultra violet (UV) cured glue. 15. The device of claim 9 wherein the micro perforation is substantially invisible and not visible to the human eye. 16. An assembly comprising: a metal part, the metal part including a (i) a first surface and a second surface; (ii) at least one perforation; and (iii) a binding feature, the binding feature having a binding surface formed by back filling an extrudable material into the at least one perforation; and a molded piece, the molded piece being molded on the first surface and the binding surface, wherein the molded piece includes a mechanical feature, and wherein the binding feature extends into the first surface of the metal part but not the second surface of the metal part, and wherein the first surface includes an undercut, and the molded piece is molded into the undercut. 17. The assembly of claim 16 wherein the perforation is a void. 18. The assembly of claim 16 wherein the binding feature includes at least one protrusion, and the molded piece is molded over the protrusion. 19. The assembly of claim 18 wherein the protrusion is formed from a glue. 20. A device comprising: an electronic component; and a housing, the housing being arranged to at least partially house the electronic component, wherein the housing includes a metal part and a molded piece, the metal part including (i) a first surface and a second surface; (ii) at least one micro perforation; and (iii) a binding feature having a binding surface formed by extruding an extrudable material through the at least one micro perforation, the molded piece being molded on the first surface and the binding surface, wherein the binding feature extends into the first surface of the metal part but not the second surface of the metal part, and wherein the first surface includes an undercut, and the molded piece is molded into the undercut. 21. The device of claim 20 wherein the binding feature includes at least one protrusion, and the molded piece is molded over the protrusion. 22. An assembly comprising: a metal part, the metal part including a (i) a top surface and a bottom surface; (ii) at least one perforation; and (iii) a binding feature, the binding feature having a binding surface formed by extruding the extrudable material through the at least one perforation; and a molded piece, the molded piece being molded against the metal part using the binding feature, wherein the perforation extends through the bottom surface wherein the binding feature extends through the bottom surface of the metal part but not the top surface of the metal part, and wherein the bottom surface includes an undercut, and the molded piece is molded into the undercut. 23. The assembly of claim 22 wherein the molded piece includes a mechanical feature. 24. The assembly of claim 22 wherein the binding feature includes at least one protrusion, and the molded piece is molded over the protrusion. 25. The assembly of claim 24 wherein the protrusion is formed from a glue. 26. The assembly of claim 22 wherein the perforation is a micro perforation, and wherein the micro perforation is substantially invisible and not visible to the human eye. 27. A device comprising: an electronic component; and a housing, the housing being arranged to at least partially house the electronic component, wherein the housing includes a metal part and a molded piece, the metal part including (i) a first surface and a second surface, and (ii) a plurality of voids formed in the second surface, the molded piece being formed from a molded material, wherein the voids extend into the second surface of the metal part but not the first surface of the metal part, wherein each of a plurality of the voids in the second surface includes an undercut, and wherein the molded piece is molded to the metal part using at least the voids with the undercuts, such that the molded piece is molded into the undercut. 