An automated (robotic) floor cleaner (100) is adapted to allow sterile cleaning of sensitive environments, such as hospital room. In particular, the floor-cleaner chassis (124) is redesigned to be mounted on a deck (102) containing cleaning devices that contact the floor. The cleaning devices mounted on the deck (102) include vacuum head (132), brushes (120), cleaning fluid sprays (128), and conceivably sanitizing devices such as UV germicidal light, are provided pre-sterilized. As such, the adapted floor-cleaner chassis (124) allows the deck (102) to be mounted to the bottom of the chassis (124), the floor-cleaner (100) is then used to clean a floor, after which, the deck (102) is removed from the chassis (124) and disposed. The robotic-floor cleaner (100) and sterilization system cleans floor between or even during cases. Further, the robotic floor cleaner (100) reduces the "turnover time" required between cases, as it operates simultaneously while the staff prepares the room for the next case.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic floor cleaner for locations needing sterile conditions, comprising: a chassis; a rechargeable battery connected to a top portion of the chassis for providing energy to power said floor-cleaner; at least one motor connected to the top portion of the chassis for providing energy to propel and operate said robotic floor cleaner for cleaning operations; and a disposable cleaning portion removably attached to a bottom portion of the chassis, the disposable cleaning portion comprising a brush assembly, a vacuum assembly and a spray assembly and provided in a sterile pack. 2. An automated floor cleaning device comprising: a reusable portion comprising a chassis supporting a drive motor, a vacuum motor having an impeller and vacuum connections, a cleaning fluid reservoir having cleaning fluid connections, a rechargeable battery, a receptacle, a computer and a cover, wherein the chassis further comprises a lower portion having at least one latch; and a pre-sterilized disposable cartridge removably attached to the reusable portion, wherein the pre-sterilized disposable cartridge comprises vacuum inlets operably connected to the vacuum motor connections, nozzles operably connected to the cleaning fluid connections, wet scrubbing brushes, and brushes; wherein the pre-sterilized disposable cartridge further comprises alignment and latching slots for removable attachment to the at least one latch of the chassis. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the nozzles comprise backflow preventers configured to prevent reverse contamination of fluid in the fluid reservoir. 4. The device of claim 2, further comprising a second disposable cartridge in a sterile pack. 5. The device of claim 2, further comprising: two fixed drive wheels connected near a front portion of the chassis and operably connected to the drive motor; and two passive swiveling wheels operably connected to a rear portion of the chassis. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein each of the two fixed drive wheels is operably connected to an independent drive motor. 7. The device of claim 2, further comprising at least one sensor connected to the chassis and operably connected to the computer, the at least one sensor configured to detect at least one way point emitter embedded in a floor. 8. A method comprising: attaching a cleaning deck to a bottom portion of a floor cleaner chassis to form a robotic floor cleaner and cleaning deck apparatus, wherein the cleaning deck comprises a plurality of pre-sterilized cleaning devices; cleaning a floor with the robotic floor cleaner and cleaning deck apparatus; removing the cleaning deck after the floor has been cleaned; and disposing of the cleaning deck. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising attaching another cleaning deck comprising a plurality of pre-sterilized cleaning devices to the bottom portion of the chassis. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of pre-sterilized cleaning devices comprises at least two of vacuum heads, wet brushes, brushes, cleaning fluid nozzles and a sanitizing device. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the sanitizing device comprises a UV germicidal light. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the cleaning fluid nozzles comprise backflow preventers configured to prevent reverse contamination. 