Devices and methods for manufacturing displays, solar panels and other devices using larger size workpieces are provided. The workpiece is rolled into a cylinder, thereby reducing the physical size by a factor of 3 in one dimension. The stages on which the workpieces are rolled have a cylindrical shape, which allows a more robust and/or compact movement of the glass, reduced machine weight. The workpieces are relatively thin, more flexible, and are rolled onto a cylinder with a diameter of about 1 meter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing platform configured to write a pattern on a nominally flat workpiece larger than about 5 m.sup.2 and less than about 1 mm thick, the pattern being defined in a first coordinate system on the workpiece in a flat state, the processing platform comprising: at least one writing tool; a stage configured to clamp the workpiece to a cylinder, thereby bending the workpiece to a curved state in which the workpiece is to be written when rotated relative to the at least one writing tool; a position controller configured to control movements of the at least one writing tool relative to the stage in a second coordinate system on the curved surface of the workpiece; a metrology system configured to provide metrology information regarding two-dimensional deviations based on an ideal shape of the workpiece, an ideal shape of a surface of the cylinder, and a relative movement between the workpiece and the cylinder; and a processor configured to convert the first coordinate system to the second coordinate system; wherein the processor corrects for the two-dimensional deviations using the metrology information when converting the first coordinate system to the second coordinate system. 2. The processing platform according to claim 1, further comprising: at least two writing tools aligned to a same workpiece coordinate system with a differential alignment accuracy of at least about one micron. 3. The processing platform according to claim 2, further comprising: at least two toolbars mounted on the stage, the at least two toolbars including the at least two writing tools, and the at least two toolbars being aligned to the same workpiece coordinate system with a differential alignment accuracy of at least about one micron. 4. The processing platform according to claim 1, further comprising: at least two writing tools aligned to a same workpiece coordinate system with a differential alignment accuracy of at least about 100 nanometers. 5. The processing platform according to claim 4, further comprising: at least two toolbars mounted on the stage, the at least two toolbars including the at least two writing tools, and the at least two toolbars being aligned to the same workpiece coordinate system with a differential alignment accuracy of at least about 100 nanometers. 6. The processing platform according to claim 1, further comprising: a sensor for measuring the position of the workpiece. 7. The processing platform according to claim 6, wherein the at least one writing tool is an optical writing tool for writing the pattern. 8. The processing platform according to claim 7, wherein the pattern written by said optical writing tool is translated depending on a concurrent alignment measurement by the sensor. 9. The processing platform according to claim 7, wherein said pattern is generated by a rasterizer feeding data to the optical writing tool. 10. The processing platform according to claim 7, wherein said pattern comes from a mask. 11. The processing platform according to claim 10, wherein said mask is reduced by a factor between 2 and 5 from the intended printed pattern. 12. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein the second coordinate system is determined based on a measured radius of curvature of the workpiece. 13. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein the second coordinate system is determined based on a measured thickness of the workpiece. 14. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein an offset of a plurality of tools are measured against a common reference. 15. The processing platform of claim 14, wherein at least one camera or detector associated with at least one of the plurality of tools is used to measure the common reference in form of a common fiducial. 16. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein the first coordinate system of the workpiece is aligned to the second coordinate system on the curved surface by introduction of a common coordinate system. 17. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein the at least one writing tool is aligned to the second coordinate system by the introduction of a common coordinate system. 18. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein a conversion of coordinates of the first coordinate system to the second coordinate system includes at least one of an angle and a tool distance along an axis of the stage to cylindrical coordinates. 19. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein the coordinates of the first coordinate system are converted to coordinates, or control parameters, for both the second coordinate system and the at least one writing tool. 20. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein the stage is adapted to the writing of a pattern on the workpiece during the bending of the workpiece. 21. The processing platform of claim 20, wherein the stage is adapted to bend the workpiece to fully or partially cylinder-shape during writing. 22. The processing platform of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine and integrate a dilation tensor over the surface of the workpiece to determine the distortion. 