Methods and apparatus for removing condensed metal from the surfaces of metal processing chambers, such as, vacuum induction melting (VIM) furnaces having, for example, condensed Mg or Ti, are disclosed. The methods and apparatus provide a robotic arm end positioned in the furnace having a nozzle operatively connected to a source of dry ice. The robotic arm end directs a stream of dry ice particles against the surface of the furnace to displace condensed metal. The displaced metal is collected for reuse or disposal. Aspects of the invention provide a safe and automated process for cleaning process chambers and recovering metal that can typically be dangerous when performed by conventional methods.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for removing material containing condensed metal from a surface of a metal processing chamber, the apparatus comprising: a robotic arm end positioned in the metal processing chamber; a source of dry ice operatively connected to the arm end; means for directing a flow of dry ice against the surface of the metal processing chamber with the arm end to displace at least some material containing condensed metal from the surface; and a displaced material collection system operatively connected to the chamber. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the processing chamber comprises a furnace. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein the furnace comprises a vacuum induction melting furnace. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the condensed metal comprises at least one of an Mg-containing material and a Ti-containing material. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the robotic arm end positioned in the chamber comprises a robotic arm end positioned above a crucible in the chamber. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 5, wherein the apparatus further comprises a mounting plate mounted to the crucible, the mounting plate adapted to support the robotic arm end. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises a nozzle mounted to the arm end. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 7, wherein the source of dry ice is operatively connected to the nozzle. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the displaced material collection system comprises means for drawing at least some of the displaced material from the chamber. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the means for drawing at least some of the displaced material from the chamber comprises means for drawing at least some of the displaced material and gases from the chamber, and wherein the apparatus further comprises means for isolating at least some of the displaced material from the displaced material and gases drawn from the chamber. 11. The apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein the plate comprises a turntable. 12. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises a robot adapted to hold the robotic arm end. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein the robot is positioned within the metal processing chamber. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 13, wherein the robot adapted to hold the robotic arm end is positioned on a support structure in the metal processing chamber. 15. The apparatus as recited in claim 14, wherein the support structure comprises a dummy crucible. 16. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises a controller adapted to control operation of the arm end. 17. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the source of dry ice comprises a system providing dry ice particles under pressure. 18. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the displaced material collection system comprises a system adapted to collect metal dust. 19. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the means for directing the flow of dry ice comprises one or more nozzles. 20. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the source of dry ice is operatively connected to the arm end by conduit. 21. The apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein the robot is removable from the chamber. 