A decoring method and system is provided. The method includes the steps of providing the casting having a core material disposed in the internal passage; providing the decoring apparatus configured to selectively oscillate the casting and selectively rotate the casting; securing the casting in the decoring apparatus; introducing a quantity of shot into the internal passage of the casting; oscillating the casting; and rotating the casting. A decoring apparatus configured to selectively oscillate the casting along a first axis, rotate the casting about a second axis, and rotate the casting about a third axis, is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for decoring a casting having an internal passage, comprising the steps of providing the casting having a core material disposed in the internal passage; providing a decoring apparatus configured to selectively oscillate the casting and selectively rotate the casting; securing the casting in the decoring apparatus; gravity feeding a quantity of shot into the internal passage of the casting; oscillating the casting; and rotating the casting, wherein the shot is caused to ricochet through the internal passage by the oscillation and rotation of the casting, the shot ricocheting with an energy sufficient to at least one of fracture and dislodge the core material from the internal passage to remove the core material from the internal passage. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of pre-processing the casting to initiate a break down of the core material prior to securing the casting in the decoring apparatus. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of at least one of oscillating and rotating the casting prior to gravity feeding the quantity of shot. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the casting is oscillated along a first axis and rotated about a second axis, and wherein the second axis is a substantially horizontal axis. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the first axis is a substantially horizontal axis substantially parallel to the second axis. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of separating the shot from the core material following the exiting of the core material and the shot from the internal passages of the casting. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the shot is formed from a ferrous material. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the step of separating the shot from the core material includes a magnetic separation. 9. The method according to claim 6, further comprising the step of recycling the shot by reintroducing the separated shot back into the internal passage of the casting. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of gravity feeding the shot is conducted by one of manual means and automated means. 11. The method according to claim 4, further comprising the step of rotating the casting about a third axis to promote the impacting of the shot on the surface of the interior passage. 