A micro assembly having a substrate and an operating plane coupled to the substrate. The operating plane is movable from an in-plane position to an out-of-plane position. One or more electric connections provide electric power from the substrate to the operating plane in the out-of-plane position. A tool is coupled to the operating plane. The tool is operable to receive electric power from the operating plane to perform work.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A micro assembly, comprising: a substrate; a structure coupled to the substrate and movable from an in-plane position to an out-of-plane position; one or more electric connections providing electric power from the substrate to the structure in the out-of-plane position; a tool coupled to the structure; and the tool operable to receive electric power from the structure to perform work. 2. The micro assembly of claim 1, the electric connection comprising electric leads between the substrate to the structure. 3. The micro assembly of claim 2, the electric connection further comprising conductive elements in the structure extending from the electric leads to one or more power points for the tool, wherein the power points are at the top of the structure or otherwise located on the structure. 4. The micro assembly of claim 2, the electric connection further comprising conductive elements in the structure extending from the electric leads to one or more power points for the tool, wherein the power points are located on the structure. 5. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a chip. 6. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein the structure comprises an arm. 7. The micro assembly of claim 1, further comprising a tool connection connecting the tool to the structure. 8. The micro assembly of claim 1, the tool connection providing rigidity to the tool. 9. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein the tool is integral with the structure. 10. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein the tool is detachable from the structure. 11. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein the tool comprises one of pliers, cutting tool, extension device, hot knife, magnetic bead implanter gun, and biopsy tool. 12. The micro assembly of claim 1, further comprising a jacking system operable to move the operating plane from the in-plane position to the out-of-plane position. 13. The micro assembly of claim 1, further comprising a thermal actuator to convert electric power into mechanical motion for the tool. 14. The micro assembly of claim 1, the structure comprising an arm. 15. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein the out-of-plane position comprises a position orthogonal to the substrate. 16. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein movable from an in-plane position to an out-of-plan position comprises 90 degrees rotation. 17. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein movable from an in-plane position to an out-of-plan position comprises erection into a vertical orientation. 18. The micro assembly of claim 1, wherein movable from an in-plane position to an out-of-plan position comprises elevation. 19. A micro assembly, comprising: a substrate; a structure coupled to the substrate and movable from an in-plane position to an out-of-plane position; means for providing electric power from the substrate to the structure in the out-of-plane position; and means for operating a tool coupled to the structure using the electric power. 