An ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system, comprising a plate comprising an elongated slit therein, wherein the elongated slit positioned at a rotation center of the plate and configured to allow a first beam portion to pass therethrough. A beam current detector located downstream of the plate, wherein the beam current detector comprises a slit therein configured to permit a second beam portion of the first beam portion to pass therethrough, wherein the beam current detector is configured to measure a first beam current associated with the first beam portion. A beam angle detector is located downstream of the beam current detector and configured to detect a second beam current associated with the second beam portion. The plate, the current beam detector and the beam angle detector are configured to collectively rotate about the rotation center of the plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system, comprising: a plate comprising an elongated slit therein, wherein the elongated slit is positioned at a rotation center of the plate and configured to allow a first beam portion to pass therethrough along a beam axis; a beam current detector located downstream of the plate, wherein the beam current detector comprises a slit therein configured to permit a second beam portion of the first beam portion to pass therethrough, wherein the beam current detector is configured to measure a first beam current associated with the first beam portion; a beam angle detector located downstream of the beam current detector and configured to detect a second beam current associated with the second beam portion; wherein the plate, the beam current detector and the beam angle detector are configured to collectively rotate about the rotation center of the plate in a direction non-parallel and not co-axial with the beam axis. 2. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, further comprising a controller configured to calculate an ion beam emittance and an ion beam angle as a function of a wobble angle, the first beam current and the second beam current at locations in a plane or a three dimensional space. 3. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, wherein the beam current detector and the beam angle detector are collectively enclosed in a housing with a front housing face with the elongated slit that comprises the plate, wherein a first end of the housing is attached to a first end of a rotatable scan arm. 4. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 3, further comprising an electrostatic suppressor located immediately downstream of the front housing face with the elongated slit, wherein the electrostatic suppressor is configured to prevent electrons from crossing a suppressor plane associated therewith. 5. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, affixed to a scan arm, wherein the scan arm is configured to rotate about a scan arm axis; wherein the scan arm is connected to a rotating robotic drive arm; wherein the scan arm is configured to be driven about the scan arm axis by a scan stepper motor; and wherein the robotic drive arm is configured to be driven by a drive arm stepper motor about a drive arm axis. 6. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 5, wherein the rotatable scan arm and the rotatable drive arm together form a robotic arm assembly; and wherein the robotic arm assembly is configured to move a housing containing the ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system in a rectilinear or scanning motion in a direction orthogonal to the slit. 7. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 6, wherein an emittance profiler Faraday system rotating motion is performed concurrently with the rectilinear or scanning motion. 8. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, further comprising a DC servo wobble motor attached to a wobble drive crank; wherein the wobble drive crank is attached to a housing containing the ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system and rotates a housing face thereof about the rotation center between minus 12 and plus 12 degrees. 9. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, wherein the combined measurements produce two 3-D profiles, I(x,x') and I(y,y') or four 2-D profiles I(x), I(x'), I(y) and I(y'), or both. 10. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, wherein a beam current for a data point is defined by: dd ##EQU00006## wherein: [dI/dx].sub.i=the beam current for the data point; S=slot width in inches; D(i,j)=a resulting data array that has i rows and j columns; D.sub.(i,3) is the column containing the beam current samples made by the profile Faraday cup; and D.sub.(i,4) is the column containing the beam current samples made by the angle Faraday cup. 11. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, wherein multiple measurements of first and second beam currents are taken at a plurality of locations varying from one another by an interval .DELTA.x, wherein the .DELTA.x interval between samples: .DELTA.x.sub.i=D.sub.i,2D.sub.i-1,2 wherein: .DELTA.x.sub.i=the x interval between samples; D.sub.i,2=is a resulting data array that has i rows and 2 columns; and D.sub.i-1,2=is a resulting data array that has i-1 rows and 2 columns. 12. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, wherein multiple measurements of first and second beam currents are taken as samples at a plurality of locations varying from one another by an interval .DELTA.x, and wherein the total beam current approximated between samples is: .DELTA..DELTA..function.dd ##EQU00007## wherein: .DELTA.I.sub.i=the total beam current approximated between samples; D.sub.i,2=is a resulting data array that has i rows and 2 columns; and D.sub.i-1,2=is a resulting data array that has i-1 rows and 2 columns. 13. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, wherein the total current contained in the beam being measured is: .times..times..DELTA. ##EQU00008## wherein: I.sub.t=is the total current contained in the beam being measured; and .times..times..DELTA..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00009## .times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..ti- mes..times..times..times..times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00009.2## is the sum of the total beam current from I.sub.i row equals zero to i equals n. 14. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 13, wherein the current samples contained in the matrix D.sub.k,1 are normalized using the total current as follows: .times..times..times..times. ##EQU00010## wherein: K=is a normalization factor used to normalize the sum of the angle Faraday cup plus the sampled current in the angle Faraday cup, the factor K is necessary to add dimensions to the values dl/dx' and dl/dy' and is well known by those of skill in the art; and I.sub.t=is the total current contained in the beam being measured. 15. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 14, wherein the normalized current (Inorm) from the angle Faraday samples is: .times..times..times..times..times. ##EQU00011## wherein: K=is a normalization factor used to normalize the sum of the angle Faraday cup plus the sampled current in the angle Faraday cup, the factor K is necessary to add dimensions to the values dl/dx' and dl/dy' and is well known by those of skill in the art; and I.sub.norm=is the normalized current (I.sub.norm) from the angle Faraday samples. 16. The ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system of claim 1, wherein the ion beam angle calibration and emittance measurement system can be moved entirely out of the path of the ion beam impacting the selected workpiece; and the system further comprises linear actuators, linear drives, and rack and pinion drives. 