The invention is an aircraft having an inflatable wing connected to a base unit, with the inflatable wing inflated with a lifting gas such as helium. The inflatable wing has a series of cell structures, and may be configured with ballonets to selectively introduce and expel outside air within the inflatable wing to vary the buoyancy and/or airfoil properties of the inflatable wing. The aircraft is particularly useful at low speeds and in thin atmospheres (such as at high Earth altitudes and on Mars), and can be used for interplanetary missions to explore planetary bodies, such as moons and planets, having atmospheres.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a device for delivery from Earth to a planetary body having an atmosphere, comprising: providing a base unit, wherein the base unit comprises solar panels, batteries, and sensors; providing an inflatable airfoil configured to form a lifting body when inflated, wherein the lifting body is configured to provide active lift when in forward motion through an atmosphere of a planetary body other than Earth and also to provide static lift in the atmosphere of the planetary body; flushing the inflatable airfoil with a lifting gas to remove Earth air and other contaminants from the inflatable airfoil; restraining the inflatable airfoil in a collapsed configuration; securing the inflatable airfoil to the base unit to thereby form an aircraft. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the lifting gas is helium. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the inflatable airfoil comprises a plurality of individual cells. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: providing one or more canisters containing lifting gas; and connecting the one or more canisters containing lifting gas to the inflatable airfoil so as to selectively provide lifting gas to the inflatable airfoil. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising; launching the aircraft from the Earth to the planetary body. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the base unit comprises one or more scientific sensors. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a spacecraft; and securing the spacecraft to the base unit. 8. A method of preparing a device for delivery from Earth to a planetary body having an atmosphere, comprising: providing a base unit, wherein the base unit comprises one or more canisters containing lifting gas; and providing an inflatable airfoil configured to form a lifting body when inflated, wherein the inflatable airfoil comprises a plurality of individual cells; flushing the inflatable airfoil with lifting gas to remove Earth air and other contaminants from the inflatable airfoil; restraining the inflatable airfoil in a collapsed configuration; and securing the inflatable airfoil to the base unit to thereby form an aircraft, including connecting the one or more canisters containing lifting gas to the inflatable airfoil so as to selectively provide lifting gas to the inflatable airfoil. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the lifting gas is helium. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising; securing the aircraft to an orbital insertion rocket configured to provide thrust to place the aircraft into orbit around the planetary body from an Earth-to-planetary-body trajectory; positioning the aircraft on a launch vehicle configured to launch the aircraft into the Earth-to-planetary-body trajectory; launching the aircraft into the Earth-to-planetary-body trajectory. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the base unit comprises an anchoring drill configured to drill into the surface of the planetary body to secure the aircraft thereto while permitting the base unit to rotate in a 360 degree arc about the anchoring drill. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the inflatable airfoil comprises a leading edge and a trailing edge, wherein the inflatable cells are generally elongated and extend lengthwise in a direction from the leading edge to the trailing edge of the inflatable airfoil, wherein the inflatable airfoil forms an airfoil shape when the cells are inflated, with the airfoil shape configured to provide lift when the inflatable airfoil is in forward flight. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the inflatable airfoil comprises a ballonet positioned within the inflatable airfoil, the ballonet configured to receive outside air. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the airfoil shape has a length and a width, and the length is greater than the width. 15. The aircraft of claim 12, wherein the airfoil shape has a generally flat bottom section. 