Diamonds may be identified as grown by the use of chemical vapor deposition. One or more diamonds may be placed on a surface and exposed to short wavelength light. Diamonds that fluoresce red may be identified as grown by the use of chemical vapor deposition. In some embodiments, the diamonds are cooled prior to exposure to the short wavelength light.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: placing multiple diamonds on a surface; exposing the diamonds to short wavelength light; identifying diamonds that fluoresce red; and cooling the diamonds below room temperature prior to exposing the diamonds to short wavelength light. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the diamonds are cooled by exposing them to liquid nitrogen. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the cooled diamonds fluoresce brighter red than uncooled diamonds. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the surface comprises a conveyor belt. 5. A method comprising: placing multiple diamonds on a surface; exposing the diamonds to short wavelength light; cooling the diamonds below room temperature prior to exposing the diamonds to short wavelength light; identifying diamonds that fluoresce red; and sorting the diamonds as a function of red fluorescence. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the diamonds are cooled by exposing them to liquid nitrogen. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the cooled diamonds fluoresce brighter red than uncooled diamonds. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the surface comprises a conveyor belt. 9. A method comprising: placing multiple diamonds on a surface; cooling the diamonds significantly below room temperature; exposing the diamonds to short wavelength light; identifying diamonds that fluoresce red as diamonds manufactured using chemical vapor deposition; using a spectrometer to detect doublet emissions when the diamonds are exposed to short wavelength light to confirm that diamonds that fluoresce red are manufactured. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the diamonds are cooled by exposing them to liquid nitrogen. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the cooled diamonds fluoresce brighter red than uncooled diamonds. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the surface comprises a conveyor belt. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the diamonds are cooled by a thermoelectric cooler. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the diamonds are colorless to near colorless. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the short wavelength light includes light in the visible to UV range. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein the short wavelength light includes light in the blue to violet range. 