An image guided treatment is performed to treat a target. To perform the image guided treatment, measurement data indicative of target motion is acquired. A timing of one or more x-ray images is determined based on the measurement data. Treatment may be performed on the target using the position of the target.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An imaging method, implemented by a computing system programmed to perform the following, comprising: acquiring measurement data indicative of a target motion, wherein the measurement data includes a prior x-ray image; determining, using the computing system, a timing of one or more x-ray images based on the target motion; computing a time to completion of a radiation treatment beam; comparing an age of the prior x-ray image to the time to completion; and when the age of the prior x-ray image will exceed an image age threshold before the time to completion, acquiring a new x-ray image before delivering the radiation treatment beam. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the prior x-ray image to another image to track the target motion; and visually presenting the target motion via a display. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement data includes at least one of ultrasound measurement data or external imaging data of a patient. 4. An imaging method, implemented by a computing system programmed to perform the following, comprising: acquiring measurement data indicative of a target motion, wherein the measurement data includes a prior x-ray image; determining, using the computing system, a timing of one or more x-ray images based on the target motion; assigning an image age threshold based on the target motion; and establishing an x-ray imaging frequency based on the image age threshold. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: increasing the x-ray imaging frequency when the target motion is above a threshold. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: decreasing the x-ray imaging frequency when the target motion is below a threshold. 7. The method of claim 4, further comprising: dividing a radiation treatment beam into a plurality of radiation treatment beams, wherein completing delivery of the radiation treatment beam extends beyond the image age threshold. 8. The method of claim 4, further comprising: combining a plurality of radiation treatment beams into a single radiation treatment beam, wherein delivery of the single radiation treatment beam is complete at or before the image age threshold. 9. An imaging method, implemented by a computing system programmed to perform the following, comprising: acquiring measurement data indicative of a target motion, wherein the measurement data includes a prior x-ray image; determining, using the computing system, a timing of one or more x-ray images based on the target motion; prior to treatment of a patient, determining a treatment plan that includes a plurality of radiation treatment beams; receiving selection of an initial image age threshold; determining that completing delivery of at least one radiation treatment beam extends beyond the initial image age threshold; and modifying the treatment plan by splitting the at least one radiation treatment beam into two or more radiation treatment beams, wherein delivery of each of the two or more radiation treatment beams will complete at or before the initial image age threshold. 10. A treatment system, comprising: an imaging apparatus including an x-ray source to generate one or more x-ray images; a motion detecting apparatus to acquire measurement data indicative of a target motion; and a processing device coupled with the imaging apparatus and the motion detecting apparatus, wherein the processing device is configured to: determine a timing of the one or more x-ray images based on the target motion: compute a time to completion of a radiation treatment beam; compare an age of the prior x-ray image to the time to completion; and when the age of the prior x-ray image will exceed an image age threshold before the time to completion, acquiring a new x-ray image before delivering the radiation treatment beam. 11. The treatment system of claim 10, further comprising: a display; wherein the processing device is further configured to compare the prior x-ray image to another image to track the target motion, and to visually present the target motion via the display. 12. The treatment system of claim 10, wherein the motion detecting apparatus is an optical tracking system, and wherein the measurement data is generated by at least one of optical tracking of markers disposed on a patient or optical tracking of a surface of the patient. 13. The treatment system of claim 10, wherein the motion detecting apparatus includes a laser range finder, and wherein the measurement data represents a distance between a surface of the patient and the laser range finder. 14. A treatment system, comprising: an imaging apparatus including an x-ray source to generate one or more x-ray images; a motion detecting apparatus to acquire measurement data indicative of a target motion; and a processing device coupled with the imaging apparatus and the motion detecting apparatus, wherein the processing device is configured to: determine a timing of the one or more x-ray images based on the target motion; assign an image age threshold based on the target motion; and establish an x-ray imaging frequency based on the image age threshold. 15. The treatment system of claim 14, wherein the processing device is further configured to increase the x-ray imaging frequency when the target motion is above a threshold. 16. The treatment system of claim 14, wherein the processing device is further configured to decrease the x-ray imaging frequency when the target motion is below a threshold. 17. The treatment system of claim 14, wherein the processing device is further configured to divide a radiation treatment beam into a plurality of radiation treatment beams, wherein completing delivery of the radiation treatment beam extends beyond the image age threshold. 18. The treatment system of claim 14, wherein the processing device is further configured to combine a plurality of radiation treatment beams into a single radiation treatment beam, wherein delivery of the single radiation treatment beam is complete at or before the image age threshold. 19. The treatment system of claim 14, wherein the motion detecting apparatus is an ultrasound imaging apparatus, and wherein the measurement data is ultrasound measurement data. 20. A treatment system, comprising: an imaging apparatus including an x-ray source to generate one or more x-ray images; a motion detecting apparatus to acquire measurement data indicative of a target motion; and a processing device coupled with the imaging apparatus and the motion detecting apparatus, wherein the processing device is configured to: determine a timing of the one or more x-ray images based on the target motion; prior to treatment of a patient, determine a treatment plan that includes a plurality of radiation treatment beams; receive selection of an initial image age threshold; determine that completing delivery of at least one radiation treatment beam extends beyond the initial image age threshold; and modify the treatment plan by splitting the at least one radiation treatment beam into two or more radiation treatment beams, wherein delivery of each of the two or more radiation treatment beams is completed at or before the initial image age threshold. 