Surgical accessories are presented in vivo and used by surgical tools in the surgical site to perform additional tasks without the need to remove the tools from the surgical site for tool change or instrument loading. Examples of in vivo accessories include fastening accessories such as surgical clips for use with a clip applier, single working member accessories such as a blade which can be grasped and manipulated by a grasping tool for cutting, sheath accessories that fit over working members of a tool, flow tubes for providing suction or introducing a fluid into the surgical site, and a retraction member resiliently biased to retract a tissue to expose an area in the surgical site for treatment. The accessories can be introduced into the surgical site by a dedicated accessory introducer, or can be supported on the body of a surgical tool inserted into the surgical site and be manipulated using another surgical tool in the surgical site. The accessory introducer can be resiliently biased to bias the accessories toward a predetermined position in the surgical site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing minimally invasive robotic surgery in an internal cavity of a patient body, the method comprising: contacting a portion of a target tissue with a first robotic surgical tool, the first robotic surgical tool being electrically conductive; grasping an electrically conductive cautery member with a second robotic surgical tool; manipulating the second robotic surgical tool so that the electrically conductive cautery member contacts another portion of the target tissue; and energizing the first robotic surgical tool and the cautery member for coagulating the target tissue. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first robotic surgical tool and the cautery member are energized by connection to opposite leads of a radiofrequency power source to form a bipolar system. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the second robotic surgical tool is a forceps. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the second robotic surgical tool is electrically insulated from the cautery member. 