Surgical methods and devices allow closed-chest surgery to be performed on a heart of a patient while the heart is beating. A region of the heart is stabilized by engaging a surface of the heart with a stabilizer without having to stop the heart. Motion of the target tissues is inhibited sufficiently to treat the target tissues with robotic surgical tools which move in response to inputs of a robotic system operator. A stabilizing surface of the stabilizer is coupled to a drive system to position the surface from outside the patient, preferably by actuators of the robotic servomechanism. Exemplary stabilizers includes a suture or other flexible tension member spanning between a pair of jointed bodies, allowing the member to occlude a coronary blood vessel and/or help stabilize the target region between the stabilizing surfaces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical stabilizer for inhibiting motion of a cardiac tissue accessed via a minimally invasive opening, wherein a heart surface borders the cardiac tissue, the stabilizer comprising: a shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; a first elongate body extending distally from the distal end of the shaft, the first elongate body having a first stabilizing surface adapted to engage the heart surface to inhibit motion of the cardiac tissue, a length spanning distal and proximal ends of the first elongate body, a first anchor at the distal end of the first elongate body, a width across the first stabilizing surface, a thickness less than the width, and at least one lateral bend; a second elongate body pivotally coupled to the first body at a joint adjacent the distal end of the shaft, the second elongate body having a second stabilizing surface adapted to engage the heart surface to inhibit motion of the cardiac tissue, a length spanning distal and proximal ends of the second elongate body, a second anchor at the distal end of the second elongate body, a width across the second stabilizing surface, a thickness less than the width, and at least one lateral bend, wherein the length of the first elongate body is longer than the length of the second elongate body so that the bodies cross distally of the joint and along the stabilizing surfaces without the first anchor of the first elongate body interfering with the second anchor of the second elongate body when the first and second elongate bodies are aligned in a small profile configuration suitable for insertion through the minimally invasive opening. 2. The surgical stabilizer of claim 1, further comprising: a wrist joint structure having a distal clevis structure and a proximal clevis structure, wherein the first and second elongate bodies are pivotally coupled at the joint to the distal clevis structure, the distal clevis structure is pivotally coupled at another joint to the proximal clevis structure, and the proximal clevis structure is coupled to the distal end of the shaft. 3. The surgical stabilizer of claim 2, wherein the pivotal coupling of the distal clevis structure to the proximal clevis structure defines a first pivot axis, the pivotal coupling of the first and second elongate bodies to the distal clevis structure defines a second pivot axis, and the first and second pivot axes are substantially orthogonal to each other. 4. The surgical stabilizer of claim 2, wherein the proximal clevis structure is constructed to allow the distal clevis structure to pivot past 90 degrees to a longitudinal axis of the shaft. 5. The surgical stabilizer of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second stabilizing surfaces has a high friction surface. 6. The surgical stabilizer of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second stabilizing surfaces has one or more vacuum ports. 7. The surgical stabilizer of claim 1, wherein the first elongate body has a third anchor disposed between the distal and proximal ends of the first elongate body and the second elongate body has a fourth anchor disposed between the distal and proximal ends of the second elongate body. 8. The surgical stabilizer of claim 1, wherein the first and second anchors have one or more channels for laterally receiving a flexible member and for attaching the flexible member to respective first and second elongate bodies. 