A method of swipe-scanning a graphic image printed on a surface. The surface has a position-coding pattern superimposed with the graphic image. The method comprises the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a swipe scanner relative to the surface; (ii) swiping the scanner across the surface; (iii) capturing, during said swipe, successive images of portions of the graphic image; (iv) imaging, during the swipe, successive parts of the position-coding pattern; (v) determining absolute positions of the scanner using the imaged parts of the position-coding pattern; and (vi) using the absolute positions to assemble the captured portions of the graphic image into a scanned graphic image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of swipe-scanning a graphic image printed on a surface, said surface having a position-coding pattern superimposed with the graphic image, said method comprising the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a swipe scanner relative to the surface; (ii) swiping the scanner across the surface; (iii) capturing, during said swipe, successive images of portions of the graphic image; (iv) imaging, during said swipe, successive parts of the position-coding pattern; (v) determining absolute positions of the scanner using the imaged parts of the position-coding pattern; and (vi) using the absolute positions to assemble said captured portions of said graphic image into a scanned graphic image. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said positions of said scanner are sensed using a first image sensor. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of: sensing relative motion of the scanner using a motion sensor. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of: using said sensed relative motion together with said absolute positions to assemble said scanned graphic image. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said motion sensor is an optical mouse sensor. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said optical mouse sensor utilizes said first image sensor. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said images of the graphic image are captured using a second image sensor. 8. The method of claim 7, where the second image sensor is a linear image sensor. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said second image sensor extends substantially a width of said scanner. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said position-coding pattern is printed with an infrared-absorbing ink. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the graphic image is printed with one or more inks having an infrared window enabling imaging of said position-coding pattern in the presence of said one or more inks. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: sensing an orientation of the scanner relative to the position-coding pattern; using the orientation together with said absolute positions to assemble said scanned graphic image. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: communicating the scanned graphic image to a computer system. 