A cutting system for a lawnmower or the like includes multiple blade assemblies driven by a motor, each motor independently operable with respect to each other motor. The blade assemblies are arranged into a cutting system with a length less than that of the combined length of the blades of the blade assemblies. Blade assemblies include components that align so as to balance the blade upon rotation. These components allow for a single user to attach and disengage the blade from the motor, or portion rotated thereby, with hands alone, absent tools.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lawnmower blade assembly comprising: a shaft configured to be in rotatable communication with a motor; a stub in communication with said shaft; a blade; and, a receiver coupled to said blade, said receiver including a receiving portion and at least a plurality of flexible members configured for moving between inward and outward positions for engaging and retaining said stub in said receiving portion in a releasable engagement, said flexible members including first ends and second ends, said first ends including engaging portions for moving between said inward and outward positions, and said first ends in communication with said second ends, said first ends disposed opposite said second ends on said flexible members, and said second ends configured such that force on each of said second ends moves said engaging portions to said outward positions, allowing for at least the disengagement of said blade from said stub. 2. The blade assembly of claim 1, wherein said shaft, stub, blade and receiver are configured to be in coaxial alignment, such that said blade is balanced upon rotation. 3. The blade assembly of claim 2, wherein said stub includes an outer surface and said receiving portion includes an inner surface, said outer and said inner surfaces correspondingly configured with respect to each other for allowing a sufficient but minimal amount of rotational play for said blade. 4. A lawnmower blade comprising: a blade body, said blade body including oppositely disposed cutting portions and a platform intermediate said oppositely disposed cutting portions; and, a receiver, said receiver coupled to said platform in a substantially coaxial alignment, said receiver including flexible members for moving between inward and outward positions for retaining at least a portion of a rotatable member in communication with a motor in a releasable engagement at least partially within said receiver, said flexible members including first portions configured for moving between said inward and outward positions, and second portions, in communication with said first portions, said first portions and said second portions disposed at opposite ends of said flexible members, said second portions configured such that pressure on said second portions moves said first portions to said outward positions, and, said receiver is configured for receiving and retaining said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a substantially coaxial alignment therewith, such that said blade body is balanced upon rotation. 5. The lawnmower blade of claim 4, wherein said first portions of said flexible members include bodies configured for spring-like behavior. 6. The lawnmower blade of claim 4, wherein said receiver includes a receiving portion for receiving said at least a portion of said rotatable member. 7. The lawnmower blade of claim 6, wherein said receiving portion includes an inner surface that is configured to receive said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a manner to allow a sufficient but minimal amount of rotational play for said lawnmower blade. 8. A lawnmower blade comprising: a blade body, said blade body including oppositely disposed cutting portions and a platform intermediate said oppositely disposed cutting portions; and, a receiver, said receiver coupled to said platform in a substantially coaxial alignment, said receiver including a receiving portion for receiving at least a portion of a rotatable member in a substantially coaxial alignment therewith, such that said blade body is balanced upon rotation, and flexible members for moving between inward and outward positions, for retaining said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a releasable engagement at least partially within said receiving portion, said flexible members including first portions configured for moving between said inward and outward positions, and second portions, said second portions in communication with said first portions, said first portions and said second portions disposed at opposite ends of said flexible members, and, for each of said flexible members, said second portion is configured such that pressure on said second portion moves said first portion to said outward position. 9. The lawnmower blade of claim 8, wherein said first portions of said flexible members include bodies configured for spring-like behavior. 10. The lawnmower blade of claim 9, wherein said receiving portion includes an inner surface that is configured to receive said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a manner to allow a sufficient but minimal amount of rotational play for said lawnmower blade. 11. A lawnmower blade comprising: a blade body, said blade body including oppositely disposed cutting portions and a platform intermediate said oppositely disposed cutting portions; a receiver, said receiver coupled to said platform in a substantially coaxial alignment, said receiver including at least two flexible members, each of said flexible members configured for moving between inward and outward positions for retaining at least a portion of a rotatable member in communication with a motor in a releasable engagement at least partially within said receiver, each of said flexible members including oppositely disposed first and second ends, said first ends including first portions configured for moving between said inward and outward positions, and said second ends including second portions, said second portions separate from and in communication with said first portions, said second portions configured such that pressure on said second portions moves said first portions to said outward positions; and, said receiver is configured for receiving and retaining said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a substantially coaxial alignment therewith, such that said blade body is balanced upon rotation. 12. The lawnmower blade of claim 11, wherein said first portions of said flexible members include bodies configured for spring-like behavior. 13. The lawnmower blade of claim 11, wherein said receiver includes a receiving portion for receiving said at least a portion of said rotatable member. 14. The lawnmower blade of claim 13, wherein said receiving portion includes an inner surface that is configured to receive said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a manner to allow a sufficient but minimal amount of rotational play for said lawnmower blade. 15. A lawnmower blade comprising: a blade body, said blade body including oppositely disposed cutting portions and a platform intermediate said oppositely disposed cutting portions; and, a receiver, said receiver coupled to said platform in a substantially coaxial alignment, said receiver comprising: a receiving portion for receiving at least a portion of a rotatable member, said receiving portion including an inner surface including a plurality of protrusions spaced apart to define a series of ridges and grooves for receiving said at least a portion of said rotatable member having a correspondingly configured outer surface, and, said receiving portion is configured for receiving and retaining said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a substantially coaxial alignment therewith, such that said blade body is balanced upon rotation; and, a plurality of flexible members for moving between inward and outward positions, for retaining said at least a portion of said rotatable member in a releasable engagement at least partially within said receiving portion, said flexible members including first portions configured for moving between said inward and outward positions, and second portions, said second portions in communication with said first portions, said first portions and said second portions disposed at opposite ends of said flexible members, and, for each of said flexible members, said second portion is configured such that pressure on said second portion moves said first portion to said outward position. 16. The lawnmower blade of claim 15, wherein said first portions of said flexible members include bodies configured for spring-like behavior. 17. The lawnmower blade of claim 16, wherein said plurality of protrusions of the receiving portion are configured to receive said rotatable member along a correspondingly configured outer surface in a manner to such that retaining forces of said flexible members on said at least a portion of said rotatable member are greater than rotational forces on said lawnmower blade. 