A method for sensing an object profile shape involves relatively sweeping (whisking or translating) in angular or translational increments an elongated whisker element having a deflectable cantilever region and an object so that the cantilever region bends as a result of sliding along an object periphery. The moment (torque) at a base region of the whisker element as a result of the bending is determined. The method then iteratively determines successive contact point locations on the object periphery based on small successive increments in angle or position of the whisker element and the sensed moment (torque).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for sensing an object profile shape, comprising relatively sweeping an elongated whisker element having a deflectable cantilever region and an object so that the cantilever region bends as a result of sliding on an object periphery, determining moment at a base region of the whisker element as a result of the bending, and iteratively inferring successive contact point locations on the object periphery based on small successive increments in whisker element displacement and sensed moment. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the whisker element displacement comprises rotational displacement in angular increments. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the whisker element displacement comprises translational displacement in translational increments. 4. The method of claim 1 including determining moment using a strain gage. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the strain gage is disposed on a mounting body on which the base region of the whisker element is disposed. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the whisker element comprises an elastic metallic wire. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the whisker element is rotated or translated relative to the object to effect sweeping movement. 8. The method of claim 1 including relatively sweeping the whisker element and the object so that the whisker element slides across the object's outer periphery. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the object is rotated and/or translated between sweeps. 10. A method for sensing curvature of an object, comprising relatively sweeping at a known velocity an elongated whisker element having a deflectable cantilever region and an object so that the cantilever region bends as a result of sliding on an object periphery, determining successive radial distances between a base region of the whisker element and a point of contact with the object, and determining curvature of the object using the successive radial distances and known velocity of sweeping. 11. The method of claim 10 including the step of determining curvature .kappa. using .kappa. approx.=d.sup.2y/dx.sup.2 where x and y represent the estimated x and y coordinates of each point of contact. 12. The method of claim 10 including determining future points of contact between the whisker element and the object by linear approximation using differences of the radial distances and the known velocity at preceding points of contact there between. 13. The method of claim 10 including determining future points of contact between the whisker element and the object by quadratic approximation using curvatures of the object at preceding points of contact there between. 