An integrated locking assembly that includes a linear locking mechanism and a rotary locking mechanism. The linear locking mechanism employs opposing locking plates having aligned bores that can lock onto a rod extending through the bores. The rotary locking mechanism includes rollers positioned between a housing and a cam where the rollers are wedged between the housing and the cam to lock the rotary locking mechanism and are positioned in an open position between the housing and the cam to unlock the rotary locking mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated locking assembly comprising: a linear locking mechanism including opposing locking plates having aligned bores that can lock onto a rod extending through the bores; and a rotary locking mechanism including an output shaft, said linear locking mechanism and said rotary locking mechanism being simultaneously locked and unlocked, where the rotary locking mechanism includes rollers positioned between a fixed housing and a cam, said rollers being wedged between the housing and the cam to lock the rotary locking mechanism and being positioned in an open position between the housing and the cam to unlock the rotary locking mechanism, and where the rotary locking mechanism includes a plate and a plate spring, where the plate spring biases the plate to a locking position and pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes a first angled wedge member to push against a second angled wedge member so that the first and second wedge members push against the rollers to push the rollers into the open position. 2. The assembly according to claim 1 further including an opening that accepts a pneumatic air source, said pneumatic air source causing the linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism to be unlocked. 3. The assembly according to claim 1 wherein the integrated locking assembly is part of a tool module attached to an end-effector for a robot. 4. An integrated locking assembly comprising: a housing; a linear locking mechanism including opposing locking plates having aligned bores that can lock onto a rod extending through the bores; and a rotary locking mechanism including an output shaft, said rotary locking mechanism further including rollers positioned between the housing and a cam, said rollers being wedged between the housing and the cam to lock the rotary locking mechanism and being positioned in an open position between the housing and the cam to unlock the rotary locking mechanism, said rotary locking mechanism further including a plate and a plate spring, where the plate spring biases the plate to a locking position and pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes the rollers to be positioned in the open position, and where the rotary locking mechanism includes a first angled wedge member and a second angled wedge member, wherein pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes the first angled wedge member to push against the second angled wedge member so that the first and second wedge members push against the rollers to push the rollers into the open position. 5. The assembly according to claim 4 wherein the integrated locking assembly includes an opening that accepts a pneumatic air source, said pneumatic air source causing the linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism to be unlocked. 6. The assembly according to claim 4 wherein the integrated locking assembly is part of a tool module attached to an end-effector for a robot. 7. A rotary locking mechanism comprising: a cam; an output shaft rigidly coupled to the cam; a fixed housing; a plurality of rollers positioned between the housing and the cam, said rollers being positionable between a locked position and an unlocked position; a plurality of locking springs positioned between adjacent rollers and holding the rollers in the locking position; a plate and a plate spring, wherein pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes the rollers to move to the unlocked position; and a first angled wedge member and a second angled wedge member, wherein pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes the first angled wedge member to push against the second angled wedge member so that the first and second wedge members push against the rollers to push the rollers into the open position. 8. The locking mechanism according to claim 7 wherein the rotary locking mechanism is part of an integrated locking assembly that includes a linear locking mechanism. 9. The locking mechanism according to claim 8 wherein the integrated locking assembly is part of a tool module for an end-effector for a robot. 