A method of swipe-scanning a graphic image pre-printed on a surface. The method comprises the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a swipe scanner relative to the surface and swiping the scanner across the surface; (ii) capturing, during the swipe, successive images of portions of the graphic image; (iii) printing, during the swipe, successive parts of a position-coding pattern onto the surface, the position-coding pattern being superimposed with the graphic image; (iv) imaging, during the swipe, portions of the surface on which the printhead has printed the parts of the position-coding pattern; (v) determining absolute positions of the scanner using the imaged parts of the position-coding pattern; and (vi) using the absolute positions to assemble the captured portions of the graphic image into a scanned graphic image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of swipe-scanning and printing onto a graphic image pre-printed on a surface, said method comprising the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a scanner relative to the surface and swiping the scanner across the surface, said scanner having a scanhead and a printhead; (ii) capturing, during said swipe, successive images of portions of the graphic image using said scanhead; (iii) printing, during said swipe, successive parts of a position-coding pattern onto the surface using said printhead, said position-coding pattern being superimposed with said graphic image; (iv) imaging, during said swipe, portions of said surface on which said printhead has printed said parts of the position-coding pattern; (v) determining absolute positions of the scanner using the imaged parts of the position-coding pattern; (vi) sensing an orientation of the scanner relative to the position-coding pattern; and (vii) using the orientation together with said absolute positions to assemble said captured portions of said graphic image into a scanned graphic image. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein an initial position of said scanner provides a reference point for said position-coding pattern. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said reference point is an origin. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said origin is based on an assumed initial swipe direction in step (i). 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said origin is a top-left corner of the position-coding pattern, and said initial swipe direction is a left-to-right swipe or a top-to-down swipe. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (i) further comprises the sub-steps of: imaging part of a position-coding pattern printed during a previous swipe of the scanner; and determining an absolute position of the scanner, wherein said imaged part of the position-coding pattern is contained in an outer perimeter of the position-coding pattern printed during the previous swipe. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said swiping comprises swiping outwardly from said outer perimeter of said pre-printed position-coding pattern. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said graphic image is printed with at least one first ink and said position-coding pattern is printed with a second ink. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said second ink is an infrared-absorbing ink. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the or each first ink has an infrared window enabling imaging of said position-coding pattern in the presence of the first ink. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said scanner is configured for unidirectional swiping. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said scanner comprises a first image sensor for imaging said position-coding pattern, said first image sensor being positioned downstream of a printhead, wherein a swipe direction is defined as upstream. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: sensing relative motion of the scanner during the swipe to generate relative motion data; and using the relative motion data together with said absolute positions to assemble said scanned graphic image. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: accessing an impression identity for said graphic image; associating said impression identity with said graphic image; generating association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the absolute positions and the graphic image; and communicating said association data to a computer system. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the printed position-coding pattern further identifies said impression identity. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said interactive element is selected from the group comprising: a hyperlink, an input field and a button. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein said impression identity is accessed from any one of: a memory in said scanner, said memory storing a plurality of impression identities; and a computer system communicating with said scanner. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said scanner is contained in a mobile phone or personal digital assistant. 