Device for remote laser welding of metal sheet structures comprises an anthropomorphous robot onto whose wrist is mounted an accessory device carrying a focusing head for the laser beam coming from a laser source, as well as means for oscillating the pointing direction of the focused laser beam around one oscillation axis. During welding the robot shifts the accessory device along a given trajectory and at a given speed, while the pointing direction of the focused beam is oscillated to as to allow the area of structure that is lighted by the laser beam to shift at a speed and/or along a trajectory not depending directly on the shifting trajectory and speed of the accessory device carried by the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for laser welding for use with a structure consisting of metal sheet elements, comprising: a multi-axis handling robot including a plurality of electric motors controlling the movement of elements of the robot around said axes, and a programmable electronic control unit for controlling said electric motors in order to shift a terminal element of the robot in any position along a path of travel; an accessory device connected to the terminal element for focusing a laser beam along a rectilinear trajectory to create at least a first weld bead and a second weld bead linearly spaced from the first weld bead, said accessory device operable to selectively orient the focused laser beam by rotating it around one oscillation axis through an electronic controller and at least one motor; wherein the robot electronic control unit defines a first rectilinear trajectory speed along the path of travel for the terminal element and the accessory device electronic controller defines a second rectilinear trajectory speed for movement of the laser beam in creating the first and the second weld beads, and a third rectilinear trajectory speed for movement of the laser beam between an end of the first weld bead and a beginning end of the second weld bead, the first speed is greater than the second and the third speed is greater than the first. 2. The laser device of claim 1 wherein the single oscillation axis is oriented substantially orthogonal to the rectilinear trajectory. 3. The laser device of claim 1 wherein the path of travel of the robot terminal end includes a rectilinear portion in an area adjacent to the rectilinear trajectory including the first and the second weld beads. 4. The laser device of claim 3 wherein the robot terminal rectilinear potion is laterally spaced from and substantially parallel to the rectilinear trajectory. 5. The laser device of claim 1 wherein the robot terminal element comprises a robotic wrist. 6. The laser device of claim 1 wherein the accessory device further comprises: a base connected to the robot wrist; a frame rotatably connected to the base; and a laser focusing head connected to the frame, the focusing head selectively oscillating relative to the base about the single oscillating axis. 7. The laser device of claim 1 wherein the accessory device further comprises: an oscillating mirror moveable relative to the accessory device, the mirror operable to selectively direct the laser beam at the first and the second rectilinear trajectory speeds. 8. The laser device of claim 1 further comprising: a laser source for generating the laser beam; and an optical fiber bundle connected between the laser source and the accessory device for transferring the laser from the source to the accessory device. 9. The laser device of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the optical fiber bundle is positioned inside an exterior of the robot. 10. The laser device of claim 1 wherein the at least first weld bead and the second weld bead comprise a plurality of weld beads. 11. The laser device of claim 1 wherein the robot electronic control unit is in electronic communication with the accessory device electronic controller for coordinated movement of the robot terminal element and the accessory device. 