An apparatus and method for performing rapid DNA sequencing, such as genomic sequencing, is provided herein. The method includes the steps of preparing a sample DNA for genomic sequencing, amplifying the prepared DNA in a representative manner, and performing multiple sequencing reaction on the amplified DNA with only one primer hybridization step.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sequencing nucleic acids comprising: (a) delivering the nucleic acids into aqueous microreactors in a water-in-oil emulsion such that a plurality of aqueous microreactors comprise a single copy of a nucleic acid, a single bead capable of binding to the nucleic acid, and amplification reaction solution containing reagents necessary to perform nucleic acid amplification; (b) amplifying the nucleic acids in the microreactors to form amplified copies of said nucleic acids and binding the amplified copies to beads in the microreactors; (c) delivering the beads to areas on a planar surface to produce an array of at least 10,000 reaction sites; and (d) performing a sequencing reaction simultaneously on the nucleic acids at the sites. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction sites have a center to center spacing of 20 to 100 .mu.m. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acids are 30-500 bases. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein a plurality of the beads bind at least 10,000 amplified copies. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein step (b) is accomplished using polymerase chain reaction. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the sequencing reaction is a pyrophosphate-based sequencing reaction. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the sequencing reaction comprises the steps of: (i) annealing an effective amount of a sequencing primer to the amplified copies of the nucleic acid and extending the sequencing primer with a polymerase and a predetermined nucleotide triphosphate to yield a sequencing product and, if the predetermined nucleotide triphosphate is incorporated onto a 3' end of said sequencing primer, a sequencing reaction byproduct; and (ii) identifying the sequencing reaction byproduct, thereby determining the sequence of the nucleic acid in a plurality of the reaction chambers. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: (i) uniquely tagging nucleic acids from different biological sources to create libraries of nucleic acids with different detectable sequence tags; (ii) sequencing said nucleic acids and detecting said detectable sequence tag from each said tagged nucleic acid. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the libraries are delivered to the aqueous microreactors individually or wherein the libraries are mixed and delivered to the aqueous microreactors simultaneously. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said detectable sequence tag comprises an oligonucleotide of between 2 and 50 bases. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising: releasing the beads from the microreactors; and enriching for beads comprising the bound amplified copies. 