A device for dispensing a dosage includes a base frame, at least one device for receiving any dosage-dispensing unit or functional unit that is compatible to be inserted therein, a holder and at least one drive mechanism. The holder has at least one holding position for a dosage-dispensing unit or functional unit. A weighing cell arranged on a lower horizontal plane of the base frame includes a load receiver to receive a target container. A changing mechanism enables the receiving device to be moved horizontally relative to the base frame. This horizontal shift allows a dosage-dispensing unit or functional unit to be interchanged between the holding position and the receiving device. The changing mechanism also permits the receiving device, together with the drive mechanism, to be moved vertically with regard to the base frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for dispensing a dosage into a target container having a fill opening, the device comprising: a base frame; at least two selectable units, a first of which is a unit for dispensing a dosage with the second and any further units selected from a group consisting of units for dispensing dosages and units for performing function; at least one receiving device, each receiving device adapted for insertion of a selected one of the selectable units therein; and a holder, arranged on an upper horizontal plane of the base frame when the device for dispensing a dosage is in an operating position, the holder comprising a plurality of holding positions, arranged horizontally and side-by-side, each of which is adapted for holding a selected one of the selectable units; at least one drive mechanism, arranged for coupling to one of the selectable units that is inserted into the receiving device; a weighing cell arranged on a lower horizontal plane of the base frame, the weighing cell having a load receiver adapted to receive the target container; and a changing mechanism that moves the receiving device horizontally relative to the base frame to a transfer location, so that a selected one of the selectable units can be exchanged between a designated one of the holding positions in which it is inserted and the receiving device, or vice versa, the changing mechanism operating to move the receiving device, along with the drive mechanism, vertically relative to the base frame, both towards the fill opening of the target container that has been set on the load receiver and away from the fill opening towards the designated holding position. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising: at least two holder grooves in one of the plurality of holding positions; and at least two supports in the receiving device, and guide tracks and seating locations, formed on each of the selectable units, the guide tracks corresponding to the holder grooves and the seating locations corresponding to the supports. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein: each of the selectable units is arranged between a pair of vertically oriented inner planes along which at least one seating location is located and a pair of vertically oriented outer planes along which at least one guide track is located. 4. The device of claim 2, further comprising: a location, formed on each of the selectable units, for coupling connection thereof with a robotic gripper of a loading mechanism that is independent of the device for dispensing a dosage. 5. The device of claim 2, further comprising: a snap-lock element, releasable by a mechanical force, arranged between at least one of: one of the holder grooves and the corresponding guide track and one of the supports and the corresponding seating location. 6. The device of claim 2, further comprising: a recess, located in one of the holder grooves or in one of the seating locations, extending in the vertical direction and orthogonal to a longitudinal axis of the holder groove or seating location; and a projection, formed on the corresponding guide track or on the corresponding support, extending essentially in the vertical direction and orthogonal to a longitudinal axis of the guide track or the support, such that vertical set-down and unlocking movements are required to respectively, set or separate one of the selectable units from the corresponding receiving device or holding position. 7. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a draft shield that surrounds the load receiver, and is at least partially open in the direction towards the upper horizontal plane of the base frame. 8. The device of claim 7, further comprising: a draft shield cover, arranged on the receiving device such that an open top of the draft shield can be closed off, the draft shield cover comprising a cutout for an outlet formed on a selectable unit inserted in the receiving device. 9. The device of claim 7, further comprising: a draft shield cover, arranged on the dosage-dispensing unit or functional unit to close off an open top of the draft shield. 10. The device of claim 7, wherein: the draft shield has a contour at the partially open top thereof that corresponds to to a profile of a part of the selectable unit which is located therein during a dosage-dispensing process. 11. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a device for cleaning a selected one of the selectable units, arranged on the base frame. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein: the holding positions are arranged in a linear array in a horizontal plane, with each holding position arranged for linear horizontal translation relative to the base frame to the transfer location, which is fixed relative to the base frame. 13. The device of claim 12, further comprising: a further holder, arranged in a horizontal plane between the respective upper and lower horizontal planes, the further holder comprising a transit position for the receiving device. 14. The device claim 13, wherein: each of the holder and the further holder are arranged to shift sideways when the receiving device is in the area of the lower plane. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein: the holding positions are arranged in a ring-shaped adjacent configuration in a horizontal plane, with each holding position arranged for rotary horizontal translation about a vertical axis to the transfer location, which is fixed relative to the base frame. 16. The device of claim 15, further comprising: a further holder, arranged in a horizontal plane between the respective upper and lower horizontal planes, the further holder comprising a transit position for the receiving device. 17. The device claim 16, wherein: each of the holder and the further holder are arranged to rotate about the vertical axis when the receiving device is in the area of the lower plane. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein: each of the units for dispensing a dosage either contains a substance in the form of a powder, paste or liquid or has a supply conduit which is connected to a reservoir container of the substance. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein: at least one of dosage-dispensing units has a supply conduit which is connected to a pump. 20. The device of claim 1, wherein: the units for performing functions are selected from a group consisting of: a titrator unit, a pump unit, a pipetting unit, a unit with pipe conduits and armatures, a unit with a stirrer device, a sensor unit, a heating- and/or cooling unit, and an adapter to receive one of the units or other units. 21. A device for dispensing a dosage of a plurality of substances, in the form of a powder, paste or liquid, into a target container having a fill opening, the device comprising: a base frame; a plurality of units for dispensing the dosages, each unit corresponding to one of the substances; at least one receiving device, each receiving device adapted for insertion of a selected one of the units for dispensing the dosages therein; and a holder, arranged on an upper horizontal plane of the base frame when the device for dispensing a dosage is in an operating position, the holder comprising a plurality of holding positions, arranged horizontally and side-by-side, each of which is adapted for holding a selected one of the units for dispensing the dosages; at least one drive mechanism, arranged for coupling to one of the units for dispensing the dosages that is inserted into the receiving device; a weighing cell arranged on a lower horizontal plane of the base frame, the weighing cell having a load receiver adapted to receive the target container; and a changing mechanism that moves the receiving device horizontally relative to the base frame to a transfer location, so that a selected one of the units for dispensing the dosages can be exchanged between a designated one of the holding positions in which it is inserted and the receiving device, or vice versa, the changing mechanism operating to move the receiving device, along with the drive mechanism, vertically relative to the base frame, both towards and away from the fill opening of the target container that has been set on the load receiver. 