Exoskeleton for physical activity, specially snow skiing, for preventing knee, leg and hip injuries by preventing the excessive torsion of the knee and other movements that could be dangerous for the person wearing it. The exoskeleton diverts the potential dangerous forces to the strong parts of the body and resists the generated forces when it reaches dangerous anatomical positions. The exoskeleton includes at least one first support member configured to couple above the knee; at least one second support member configured to couple below the knee; both of them linked together by a linkage assembly that limits that the coupling to the body of the support members reach dangerous positions; and at least one angle limitation mechanism that limits the relative rotation between the first support member and the second support member.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An exoskeleton to be worn by a person to provide protection against injuries, comprising: at least one first support member configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body above the knee; at least one second support member configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body below the knee; a linkage assembly comprising an upper end and a lower end, the linkage assembly coupled at the upper end of the linkage assembly to the first support member and coupled at the lower end of the linkage assembly to the second support member, the linkage assembly extending generally along the leg when the exoskeleton is worn by the person; and at least one angle limitation mechanism that limits the relative torsion between the coupling to the body of the first support member and the coupling to the body of the second support member. 2. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the at least one angle limitation mechanism limits the relative torsion between the coupling to the body of the first support member and the coupling to the body of the second support member so as to prevent relative torsion outside a predetermined rotational range while permitting a free unrestricted relative torsion within the predetermined rotational range. 3. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, further comprising at least one joint between two elements of the exoskeleton such that the at least one joint transmits torque between the two elements, allowing said torque transmission independently of angular alignment between the respective torque axis of the two elements connected between them by said joint. 4. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the linkage assembly comprises an upper linkage assembly with a respective upper end and a lower end, and a lower linkage assembly with a respective upper end and a lower end, and wherein, when the exoskeleton is worn by the person, the upper linkage assembly extends from the first support member to about the person's knee, and the lower linkage assembly extends from about the person's knee to the second support member. 5. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, wherein the lower end of the upper linkage assembly is linked to the upper end of the lower linkage assembly by an artificial joint located at about the height of the person's knee, and said joint allowing a flexion-extension movement of the knee. 6. The exoskeleton according to claim 5, wherein the joint is a hinge. 7. The exoskeleton according to claim 5, wherein the joint transmits the torque between the upper linkage assembly and the lower linkage assembly, said joint allowing torque transmission independently of the angular alignment between the torque axis of the upper and lower linkage assemblies connected between them by said joint. 8. The exoskeleton according to claim 7, wherein the joint includes a hinge. 9. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the first support member is configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body at the waist or hip. 10. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the first support member is configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's thigh. 11. The exoskeleton according to claim 5, wherein the angle limitation mechanism is located on the exoskeleton between the artificial joint at the height of the knee and the first support member. 12. The exoskeleton according to claim 5, wherein the angle limitation mechanism is located on the exoskeleton between the artificial joint at the height of the knee and the second support member. 13. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, comprising two angle limitation mechanisms, one located between the artificial joint at the height of the knee and the first support member and the second one located between the artificial joint at the height of the knee and the second support member. 14. The exoskeleton according to claim 3, wherein the joint links the first support member with the linkage assembly. 15. The exoskeleton, according to claim 14, wherein the joint limits the movement or rotation in the sagital and transverse axis of the coxo-femoral joint, thereby limiting the flexion, the extension, the abduction and adduction of the leg to the natural ranges. 16. The exoskeleton, according to claim 15, in which the ranges of rotation allowed by the joint in the sagittal and transverse axis are adjustable. 17. The exoskeleton according to claim 16, further comprising a double hinge joint that joins the first support member to the linkage assembly, said double hinge joint allowing the flexion or articulation of the exoskeleton about two different axes. 18. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the lower end of the linkage assembly is linked to the second support member through a quick coupling mechanism that allows the person to quickly connect and disconnect the second support member to and from the linkage assembly. 19. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, further comprising one or more quick coupling mechanisms that allows the person to quickly connect and disconnect between them two parts of the exoskeleton. 20. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises a hub comprising a groove and a shaft that rotates within the hub and a lug, the lug movable inside the groove such that the ends of the groove limit the amount of relative rotation between the shaft and the hub. 21. The exoskeleton, according to claim 20, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises adjustable elements for changing the rotation range of one element relative to the other, both elements being placed in the groove or on the lug. 22. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises at least two partially curved plates overlapping one another and linked by rails allowing the two curved plates to slide relative to each other. 23. The exoskeleton according to claim 22, wherein the curved plates comprise adjustable stops that limit the amount by which the plates slide relative to each other. 24. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises an outer member or hub comprising an internal surface defining a guide path and an inner member or shaft comprising a raised rotational element disposed in the guide path so that rotation of the inner member is limited by the movement of the raised rotational element in the guide path. 25. The exoskeleton, according to claim 24, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises at least one limiting element introduced in at least one hole made in the guide path surface to adjust the length of the guide path and thereby the rotation of one member relative to the other. 26. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises an element with a semicircular groove and a curved slipping element or runner introduced in the groove so that displacement of the curved slipping element inside the groove is limited by the ends of the groove. 27. The exoskeleton according to claim 26, wherein the angle limitation mechanism is coupled to the linkage assembly through a curved element joined to a joint, extending said curved element from the side of the leg to the back part of the leg and connecting to the curved slipping element or runner through a connecting element. 28. The exoskeleton, according to claim 26, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises stop elements placed inside the semicircular groove in at least one end to adjust the rotation of the slipping element. 29. The exoskeleton according to claim 26, wherein the semicircular groove element is fixed to the second support member. 30. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the linkage assembly is extendable so as to be elongated or shortened to adapt to the size of a person's leg. 31. The exoskeleton according to claim 30, wherein the linkage assembly comprises a length regulating mechanism that makes the linkage assembly extendable, the mechanism comprising an inner member comprising a plurality of holes and an outer member comprising at least one sphere that is selectively insertable in one of the holes so as to adjust the relative position of the inner member and the outer member by pushing a pressing device that unblocks the spheres from the holes and releases the movement of the inner member in respect of the outer member. 32. The exoskeleton according to claim 30, wherein the linkage assembly comprises telescopic members. 33. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, comprising at least one second support member for each leg, at least one linkage assembly for each leg, and at least one angle limitation mechanism for each leg. 34. The exoskeleton according to claim 3, wherein the joint is a universal or Cardan joint. 35. The exoskeleton according to claim 3, wherein the joint is an elastic joint. 36. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the second support member is a boot. 37. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the second support member is a ski. 38. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the second support member is the binding of the boot to the ski. 39. The exoskeleton according to claim 2, wherein the predetermined rotational range is adjustable by the person wearing the exoskeleton. 40. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, wherein the first support member is a rigid element. 41. The exoskeleton according to claim 40, wherein the first support member is a belt. 42. The exoskeleton according to claim 41, wherein the belt comprises two parts, a surrounding part and a front part, linked together to form a rigid whole by belt connections that are placed on the free ends of the surrounding part and the front part, so that said belt connections are superposed one on top of the other to form one element, and are fixed by a belt closure. 43. An exoskeleton to be worn by a person to provide protection against injuries, comprising: at least one first support member configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body above the knee; at least one second support member configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body below the knee; a linkage assembly comprising an upper end and a lower end, the linkage assembly coupled at the upper end of the linkage assembly to the first support member and coupled at the lower end of the linkage assembly to the second support member, the linkage assembly extending generally along the leg when the exoskeleton is worn by the person; and means for limiting the relative torsion between the coupling to the body of the first support member and the coupling to the body of the second support member. 