The hybrid artificial immune system consists of three main layers, including a solution application layer that interacts with the environment, a solution generation layer that solves combinatorial optimization problems and a modeling layer that analyzes problems and presents solution scenarios. The system solves evolutionary multi-objective optimization problems in network computing, robotics, artificial neural networks, protein network modeling, evolutionary systems and evolutionary hardware.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for constructing a computational artificial immune system (AIS) to solve optimization problems, where the method is executed on a computer hardware system, using a computer operating system and a computer database management system (dbms); where the method uses Layer 1 to analyze and solve optimization problems, Layer 2 to analyze and solve novel optimization problems and/or Layer 3 to model, simulate, anticipate, adapt and solve novel optimization problems; wherein the method comprises generating the AIS using the computer operating system and the computer hardware system to execute the following steps; accessing the dbms to retrieve data to Layer 1 to assist in analysis of multi-objective optimization problems (MOOPs) as artificial antigens; comparing the antigens to prior solutions in the dbms at Layer 1; analyzing novel MOOPs and artificial antigens at Layer 2 wherein layer 2 is activated only when the MOOPs are not solved at Layer 1; generating simulations that adapt to the artificial antigens to solve the MOOPs by passing the novel MOOPs to Layer 3 only when the MOOPs are not solved at Layers 1 and 2; interacting with the artificial antigens generated at Layers 2 and 3 by successively testing solution candidates in order at Layer 1; generating a unique configuration of a collective of artificial antibodies to destroy the novel artificial antigens at Layer 2; applying the solutions to solve the novel MOOPs; and storing the solutions and the steps of the problem-solving processes in the dbms. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the optimization problem is an evolving multi-objective optimization problem (eMOOP), the method further comprising: representing the eMOOP as an evolving artificial antigen; analyzing the eMOOP at multiple phases of its development by using Layer 3; developing solution candidates to the eMOOP at Layer 3; testing the solution candiates to the eMOOP by interacting with the eMOOP at Layers 1 and 2; adapting the solution candidates to the eMOOP at Layer 3 until a solution solves the eMOOP; applying the evolved solution to the eMOOP; solving the eMOOP; and storing the solution and the problem-solving process in the dbms. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: applying the AIS to network computing to solve eMOOPs; and using the AIS to solve eMOOPs involving autonomic computing processes for automated regulation of network computing systems. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: applying the AIS to network computing to solve eMOOPs; and using the AIS to solve eMOOPs involving computer viruses. 5. The method of claim 2, the method further comprising: comparing the solutions by using feedback of identifying successful solutions to novel problems at Layer 2; iteratively refining the solutions to novel eMOOPs at Layer 3 in steps until the problems are successfully solved; and applying the effective solutions to the novel eMOOPs. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing novel MOOPs at Layer 2 by assessing specific characteristics of the artificial antigens by accessing the dbms and comparing the categories of variables or multiple past MOOP analyses; generating layer 2 generates customized solutions at Layer 2 to solve novel MOOPs; passing the solution generated at Layer 2 to Layer 1; applying the solutions to the novel MOOPs by initiating a cascade to of a collective of artificial antibodies; solving the novel MOOPs; and storing the solutions in the dbms. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: solving novel MOOPs at Layer 3 by generating and adapting models of the artificial antigens; generating layer 3 generates simulations at Layer 3 of the environment for the artificial antigens; generating simulations at Layer 3 of multiple interacting artificial antigens; predicting the antigens' behaviors by analyzing at least one model of artificial antigens at Layer 3; anticipating the behaviors of evolving artificial antigens at Layer 3; passing these analyses to Layer 2 for solution candidate generation from Layer 3; testing the solution candidates to select the best available solution option at Layer 2; using Layer 2 to pass the best solution option to Layer 1; updating the solution at Layer 1 by interacting with the antigens; applying the updated solution to the artificial antigens; and storing the solutions and the problem-solving process in the dbms. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using Layer 1 to apply the anticipation process of Layer 3 modeling simulations and to predict the developmental characteristics of known MOOPs; solving the known MOOPs at Layer 1; and storing the solution in the dbms. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using Layer 2 to predict the development characteristics of novel MOOPs by applying the anticipation process of Layer 3 modeling simulations; solving at least one novel MOOP; and storing the solutions in the dbms. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein: the dbms is a central database, the method further comprising; and storing data from Layers 1, 2, and 3 into the central database. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein: the dbms is a collection of decentralized databases, the method further comprising: using database components distributed in multiple locations; storing and accessing data for Layer 1 by using a specific dbms 1 at location X; storing and accessing data for Layer 2 by using a specific dbms 2 at location Y; and storing and accessing data for Layer 3 by using a specific dbms 3 at location Z. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein: the dbms is a collection of decentralized databases, including each of the three layer databases, that interacts with a central database, the method further comprising: using a central database to access and store data in the collection of decentralized databases; using the central database to access the decentralized databases; and using each of the three decentralized databases to store data in the central database at regular intervals. 13. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: generating solution candidates at Layer 3 to novel MOOPs by creating and adapting model simulations; testing the Layer 3 simulation solutions by successively identifying each solution candidate until the novel MOOPs are successfully solved in order to evolve an effective solution; using feedback from the comparison of a successful solution to modify the model simulation at Layer 3 until the successful solution is constructed; and applying the solution to solve the novel MOOPs. 14. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: applying the AIS to a communication system; using the AIS to solve optimization problems involving resource distribution in a communication network; and rebalancing the communication network. 15. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: applying the AIS to network computing to solve MOOPs in distributed databases; using the AIS to restructure the data sets in the distributed databases to solve the optimization problems; and reorganizing data in the distributed database network. 16. A computer program product on a non-transitory computer readable medium causing a computer hardware system, a computer operating system, and a computer database management system (dbms) to organize an artificial immune system (AIS) to solve optimization problems by modeling, simulation, anticipating, and adapting, wherein the program comprises: retrieving data to Layer 1 to assist in analysis of multi-objective optimization problems (MOOPs) as artificial antigens by accessing the dbms; comparing the antigens to prior solutions in the dbms; analyzing novel MOOPs and artificial antigens at Layer 2 wherein Layer 2 is activated only when the MOOPs are not solved at Layer 1; generating solution candidates to the MOOPs by simulating by way of adapting the artificial antigens by passing the novel MOOPs to Layer 3 only when the MOOPs are not solved at Layers 1 and 2; testing solution candidates in order at Layer 1 by interacting with the artificial antigens generated at Layers 2 and 3; generating a unique configuration of a collective of artificial antibodies to destroy the novel artificial antigens at Layer 2; activating Layer 2 analysis when the MOOPs are not solved at Layer 1; activating Layer 3 modeling when the MOOPs are not solved at Layer 2; and storing the solutions and the problem-solving process in the dbms. 