A powered orthosis, adapted to be secured to a corresponding body portion of the user for guiding motion of a user, the orthosis comprising a plurality of structural members and one or more joints adjoining adjacent structural members, each joint having one or more degrees of freedom and a range of joint angles. One or more of the joints each comprise at least one back-drivable actuator governed by a controller for controlling the joint angle. The plurality of joint controllers are synchronized to cause the corresponding actuators to generate forces for assisting the user to move the orthosis at least in part under the user's power along a desired trajectory within an allowed tolerance. One embodiment comprises force-field controllers that define a virtual tunnel for movement of the orthosis, in which the forces applied to the orthosis for assisting the user may be proportional to deviation from the desired trajectory.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A powered orthosis adapted to be secured to a corresponding body portion of a user for guiding motion of the user, the orthosis comprising: a plurality of structural members; and one or more joints adjoining adjacent structural members, each joint having one or more degrees of freedom and a range of joint angles, one or more of the joints comprising: at least one back-drivable actuator governed by at least one joint actuator controller for controlling the joint angle, the one or more joint actuator controllers comprising force-field controllers that define a virtual tunnel for movement of the orthosis, the force-field controllers synchronized to cause the corresponding joint actuators to generate forces for assisting the user to move the orthosis at least in part under the user's power along a desired trajectory within an allowed tolerance, the generated forces comprising tangential forces along the desired trajectory and normal forces perpendicular to the trajectory, the tangential forces being inversely proportional and the normal forces being directly proportional to deviation from the desired trajectory. 2. A system for training a user to move a portion of the user's body in a desired trajectory, the system comprising the powered orthosis of claim 1, and a visual display configured to provide real-time visual feedback to the user showing a relationship between a desired trajectory and an actual trajectory followed by the orthosis in response to movement by the user. 3. A system for training a user to move a portion of the user's body in a desired trajectory, the system comprising a powered orthosis adapted to be secured to a corresponding body portion of a user for guiding motion of the user, the orthosis comprising: a plurality of structural members; and one or more joints adjoining adjacent structural members, each joint having one or more degrees of freedom and a range of joint angles, one or more of the joints comprising: at least one back-drivable actuator governed by at least one joint actuator controller for controlling the joint angle, the one or more joint actuator controllers comprising force-field controllers that define a virtual tunnel for movement of the orthosis, the force-field controllers synchronized to cause the corresponding joint actuators to generate forces for assisting the user to move the orthosis at least in part under the user's power along a desired trajectory within an allowed tolerance; and a visual display configured to provide real-time visual feedback to the user showing a relationship between the desired trajectory and an actual trajectory followed by the orthosis in response to movement by the user. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the forces generated by the joint actuators and applied to the orthosis for assisting the user are proportional to deviation from the desired trajectory. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the applied forces comprise tangential forces along the trajectory and normal forces perpendicular to the trajectory, in which the tangential forces are inversely proportional and the normal forces are directly proportional to the deviation from the desired trajectory. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein the forces comprise damping forces. 7. The system of claim 3, wherein the orthosis is a leg orthosis comprising a frame, a trunk connected to the frame at one or more trunk joints, a thigh segment connected to the trunk at least a hip joint, and a shank segment connected to the thigh segment at a knee joint. 8. The powered orthosis of claim 7, wherein the frame is adapted to support at least a portion of the weight of the orthosis and the user. 9. The powered orthosis of claim 7, further comprising a foot segment attached to the shank segment at an ankle joint. 10. The powered orthosis of claim 7, wherein the hip joint has at least one degree of freedom in the sagittal plane governed by a first actuator and the knee joint has at least one degree of freedom governed by a second actuator. 11. The powered orthosis of claim 10, wherein the first actuator and the second actuator each comprise linear actuators having friction compensation sufficient to make the actuators back-drivable. 12. The powered orthosis of claim 7, further comprising a first connector for connecting the orthosis thigh segment to a corresponding thigh of a user and a shank connector for connecting the orthosis shank segment to a corresponding shank of a user, the first connector having a first force-torque sensor to measure net forces between the user and the orthosis, and the second connector having a second force-torque sensor to measure net forces between the user and the orthosis. 13. A method for training a user to move a portion of the user's body in a desired trajectory, the method comprising: (a) securing the user to an orthosis comprising a plurality of exoskeletal members and a plurality of joints each having one or more degrees of freedom and a spectrum of joint angles between adjacent members connected at the joint, a plurality of the joints each comprising at least one backdrivable actuator governed by a controller for controlling the joint angle, the plurality of joint controllers synchronized with one another; (b) causing the synchronized joint controllers to operate the corresponding actuators to generate forces for assisting the user to move the orthosis at least in part under the user's power along a desired trajectory within an allowed tolerance; and (c) providing visual feedback to the user that shows a relationship between the desired trajectory and an actual trajectory followed by the orthosis in response to movement by the user. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the joint controllers comprise force-field controllers that define a virtual tunnel for movement of the orthosis, the method comprising in step (b) generating forces for assisting the user that are proportional to deviation of the actual trajectory from the desired trajectory. 15. The method of claim 14, comprising generating tangential forces along the trajectory inversely proportional to the deviation from the desired trajectory and normal forces perpendicular to the desired trajectory directly proportional to the deviation from the desired trajectory. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the orthosis comprises a leg orthosis comprising a frame adapted to support at least a portion of the weight of the orthosis and the user, a trunk connected to the frame at one or more trunk joints, a thigh segment connected to the trunk at least a hip joint, and a shank segment connected to the thigh segment at a knee joint, and a foot segment attached to the shank segment at an ankle joint, the hip joint having at least one degree of freedom in the sagittal plane governed by a first actuator and the knee joint having at least one degree of freedom governed by a second actuator, the method comprising training the user to move the user's leg in a desired gait. 17. A method for rehabilitation of a patient with impaired motor control, comprising training the user to move a portion of the user's body in a desired trajectory in accordance with the method of claim 13. 18. A method for training a healthy user to adopt a desired trajectory for a body motion, the method comprising: (a) securing the user to an orthosis comprising a plurality of exoskeletal members and a plurality of joints each having one or more degrees of freedom and a spectrum of joint angles between adjacent members connected at the joint, a plurality of the joints each comprising at least one back-drivable actuator governed by a controller for controlling the joint angle, the plurality of joint controllers synchronized with one another; (b) causing the synchronized joint controllers to operate the corresponding actuators to generate forces for assisting the user to move the orthosis at least in part under the user's power along the desired trajectory within an allowed tolerance; and (c) providing visual feedback to the user that shows a relationship between the desired trajectory and an actual trajectory followed by the orthosis in response to movement by the user. 