A liquid handling system has a robot manipulator for orienting pipette or dispenser tips in relation to sample containers situated in or on the system, pipette or dispenser tips, drives for moving the robot manipulator, and processors for controlling the movements and actions of the robot manipulator and/or of the pipette or dispenser tips. The system also includes at least two blocks situated on two arms of the robot manipulator, at least two of the pipette or dispenser tips being situated on each block and at an axial distance to one another. The axial distance essentially corresponds to the grid spacing of wells of a microplate. At least one of these blocks, for the alternating interlaced orientation of the pipette or dispenser tips of at least two blocks along a shared line, are individually movable at least in the X direction. A method allows the time-saving pipetting over of liquid samples between diverse sample containers, e.g., between sample tubes and microplates having 24, 96, 384, or 1536 wells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A liquid handling system comprising: a robot manipulator for orienting pipette or dispenser tips in an X direction and a Y direction, which runs essentially in a Z direction perpendicularly to the X and Y direction, in relation to sample containers situated in or on the system; pipette or dispenser tips, which extend essentially vertically and may be raised and lowered in the Z direction running essentially perpendicularly to the X and Y direction; drives for moving the robot manipulator; and processors for controlling the movements and actions of the robot manipulator and/or of the pipette or dispenser tips; wherein the system comprises at least two blocks situated on two arms of the robot manipulator, at least two of said pipette or dispenser tips being situated on each block and at an axial distance to one another which essentially corresponds to the grid spacing of wells of a microplate, at least one of these blocks, for an alternating interlaced orientation of all pipette or dispenser tips which are situated on the at least two blocks along a shared line, being implemented as individually movable at least in the X direction. 2. The liquid handling system of claim 1, wherein the pipette or dispenser tips are fixed immovably on the block supporting them, the block being implemented so it may be raised and lowered in the Z direction. 3. The liquid handling system of claim 1, wherein the pipette or dispenser tips are fixed movably on the block supporting them, each of the pipette or dispenser tips being implemented so it may be raised and lowered individually in the Z direction. 4. The liquid handling system of claim 1, wherein each two of the blocks are implemented having essentially identical constructions and are situated mirror-reversed to one another. 5. The liquid handling system of claim 4, wherein the blocks may be situated neighboring one another and having an intermediate space to one another, so that the pipette or dispenser tips are situated along the shared line. 6. The liquid handling system of claim 4, wherein the blocks may be situated mirror symmetrically opposite one another at a distance, so that the pipette or dispenser tips are opposite one another in two spaced lines. 7. The liquid handling system of claim 1, wherein the number of the pipette or dispenser tips per block is defined by an integral multiple of the number 2, or by the number 4 or 8. 8. The liquid handling system of claim 1, wherein the axial distance between the pipette or dispenser tips in a block is 4.5 mm, 9 mm, or 18 mm. 9. The liquid handling system of claim 1, wherein each one of said two arms of the robot manipulator has one block and is movably attached to at least one rail extending in the X direction of a work field of the liquid handling system. 10. The liquid handling system of claim 9, wherein said two blocks support pipette or dispenser tips and are movable back and forth in the X direction and in the Y direction in essentially the entire area of said work field. 11. The liquid handling system of claim 1, wherein each one of said two arms of the robot manipulator has two blocks and is movably attached to at least one rail extending in the X direction of a work field of the liquid handling system. 12. The liquid handling system of claim 11, wherein said two blocks support pipette or dispenser tips and are movable back and forth in the X direction and in the Y direction in a part of said work field. 13. The liquid handling system of claim 1, comprising at least one carrier or one rack, on which microplates having wells, or sample tubes are positioned. 