Proximity sensing arrangements utilize one or more sensing devices to detect and/or to discern objects that are or become proximate, or are expected to be proximate to a position of interest. For example, one or more capacitive sensors may be distributed to locations about a machine, e.g., attached to, incorporated with, or otherwise associated with a moving or otherwise operating component of the machine. Corresponding control electronics drive each capacitive sensor, using a corresponding excitation signal, as well as process information read from each capacitive sensor to make intelligent proximity related decisions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A proximity detection system comprising: a capacitive sensor that is arranged to secure to a surface of a system component having a sense electrode and a shield electrode; an excitation source that generates an excitation signal for driving the capacitive sensor; a circuit that couples the excitation source to the capacitive sensor such that when the excitation signal from the excitation source drives the capacitive sensor, a capacitive field is generated relative to the sense electrode that corresponds to the capacitance of the capacitive sensor, wherein the presence of objects that are or become proximate to the capacitive sensor alter the capacitive field thus changing the overall capacitance of the capacitive sensor; a monitor that performs measurements of the circuit where the measurements are influenced by the capacitive field associated with the capacitive sensor, the monitor comprising a signal amplifier to buffer a signal read from the sense electrode of the capacitive sensor and a shield driver to drive the shield electrode of the capacitive sensor with a copy of the signal read from the sense electrode; a controller that evaluates one or more measurements taken by the monitor and triggers a predetermined action if the evaluation corresponds to a triggering event, wherein the controller is operatively configured to: required to satisfy the result of the evaluation with regard to the triggering event to accommodate changes in a known position of an object relative to the capacitive sensor that is not desired to trigger the predetermined action; and at least one threshold table that stores data values that are used by the controller to dynamically adjust a threshold value corresponding to the at least one dynamically updated parameter, wherein the controller is further configured to utilize a select one of the data values from the threshold table based upon a detected change in the known position of the object. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to dynamically update the requirement to satisfy the triggering event based upon a value of a known position of the capacitive sensor within a defined space. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to dynamically update the requirement to satisfy the triggering event based upon a value of a relative time. 4. The system according to claim 1, further comprising at least one shield that is placed between the capacitive sensor and a system component that is not intended to trigger the predetermined action, wherein each such shield is driven, wherein the capacitive sensor and the system component move relative to each other. 5. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one additional capacitive sensor coupled to the proximity detection system, wherein: the excitation source is further configured to drive each capacitive sensor with a selected one of a plurality of unique excitation signals respectively; the monitor independently collects measurements from each capacitive sensor; and the controller is operatively configured to evaluate one or more measurements taken by the monitor for each sensor and to trigger a predetermined action if the evaluation corresponds to a triggering event. 6. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a cable that connects the capacitive sensor to the circuit, wherein the shield driver drives the shield electrode of the capacitive sensor with the copy of the signal read from the sense electrode so as to reduce effects of cable capacitance in the cable. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the capacitive sensor further comprises: an inner insulator over the surface of the system component; a first conductive layer over the inner insulator to form a shield electrode; an intermediate insulator over the inner insulator and first conductive layer; and a second conductive layer formed over the intermediate insulator to form the sense electrode. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein: the first and second conductive layers comprise electrically conductive paint; further comprising: an outer protective layer provided over the second conductive layer. 