An automated brick laying system (10) for constructing a building from a plurality of bricks (16) comprises a robot (12) provided with a brick laying and adhesive applying head (18), a measuring system (13), and a controller (14) that provides control data to the robot (12) to lay the bricks (16) at predetermined locations. The measuring system (13) measures in real time the position of the head (18) and produces position data for the controller (14). The controller (14) produces control data on the basis of a comparison between the position data and a predetermined or pre-programmed position of the head (18) to lay a brick (16) at a predetermined position for the building under construction. The controller (14) can control the robot (12) to construct the building in a course by course manner where the bricks (16) are laid sequentially at their respective predetermined positions and where a complete course of bricks for the entire building is laid prior to laying of the brick for the next course.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automated brick laying system for constructing a building from a plurality of bricks comprising: a brick laying robot provided with a base coupled at one end to a moveable support structure and a brick laying and adhesive applying head coupled to an opposite end of the moveable support structure, the head comprising at least one manipulator operable to lay bricks; a measurement system which measures the position in real time of the head and produces corresponding position data, wherein the measurement system includes a non-contact optical line-of-sight position measuring system remotely located away from said base to view a target located on the opposite end of the moveable support structure; and a controller which receives the position data and produces control data on the basis of a comparison between the position data and a stored predetermined position for the head to lay a brick at a predetermined location for the building, the controller controlling the moveable support structure to provide coarse positioning of the head and controlling the at least one manipulator to provide fine positioning of the bricks, wherein the fine positioning provides finer positioning than the coarse positioning, and wherein the controller controls the moveable support structure to move with a slow dynamic response, and controls the at least one manipulator to move with a fast dynamic response to compensate for structural dynamic effects and deflection of said moveable support structure, wherein the fast dynamic response is faster than the slow dynamic response. 2. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the automated total station and/or the scanning laser measures the position in real time of the head with a low update rate of data of from 5 to 80 Hz, and the measurement system also measures the position in real time of the head at a high data update rate to enable real time correction of structural dynamic effects and deflection. 3. The automated brick laying system according to claim 2 wherein the measurement system comprises an inertial navigation system to measure the position in real time of the head at a high data update rate, that provides data relating to the location in space of the head to the controller. 4. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the measurement system comprises a scanning laser to provide location data relating to the real time position of a brick held by the head, wherein the measurement system uses the location data to produce the position data. 5. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the controller controls the head to lay the bricks at respective predetermined locations in a sequence where a complete course of bricks is laid prior to the laying of a brick for a next course of bricks. 6. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the head comprises at least one manipulator arranged to grip and lay a brick at its predetermined location and apply adhesive on the building at that predetermined location. 7. The automated brick laying system according to claim 6 wherein the or each manipulator applies adhesive on horizontal and vertical surfaces at the predetermined location. 8. The automated brick laying system according to claim 5 wherein the head comprises first and second manipulators, each manipulator arranged to (a) grip and lay a brick at a predetermined position; and (b) apply adhesive for the brick to be laid. 9. The automated brick laying system according to claim 8 wherein first manipulator applies adhesive for a brick to be laid by the second manipulator, and the second manipulator applies adhesive for a brick to be laid by the first manipulator. 10. The automated brick laying system according to claim 8 wherein, the first and second manipulators apply adhesive at locations which, when a brick is laid, are between vertical faces of that laid brick and a previously laid brick on the same course and a horizontal face of that laid brick and a structure on which the laid brick is supported. 11. The automated brick laying system according to claim 10 wherein, when the manipulators apply adhesive between the vertical faces, one of the manipulators applies a force to the brick being laid in a direction to compress the adhesive between vertical faces of the brick being laid and a previously laid brick. 12. The automated brick laying system according to claim 11 wherein, an other of the manipulators holds the previously laid brick while the compressive force is being applied. 13. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 further comprising a conveyor system that transports individual bricks from a supply of bricks to the head. 14. The automated brick laying system according to claim 13 further comprising a brick loader that loads bricks from the supply onto the conveyor system. 15. The automated brick laying system according to claim 13 wherein the conveyor system comprises one or more endless loop conveyors. 16. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the head further comprises a brick carrying device which hold a supply of bricks to be laid. 17. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 further comprising a brick cutting device to cut a brick to a shape required for laying at a predetermined location in the building. 18. The automated brick laying system according to claim 17 wherein the cutting device comprises a saw or a guillotine. 19. The automated brick laying system according to claim 17 wherein the cutting device is located distant the head. 20. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the robot further comprises a ground engaging base to which the support structure is coupled, and wherein the controller controls the position of the base on the basis of the control data. 21. The automated brick laying system according to claim 20 wherein the controller controls the position of the base to maintain the position of the head in a datum plane for a particular course being laid. 22. The automated brick laying system according to claim 21 wherein the base further comprises one or both of (a) a moveable counterweight and (b) one or more jacks; and wherein the controller controls the position of the base by effecting a movement of the counterweight and/or deployment of one or more the jacks to counteract a bending or twisting moment applied by the support structure to the base. 23. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the movable support structure comprise one of the group consisting of a scara arm, a telescopic boom, a gantry or other crane like structure. 24. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the moveable support structure is adapted to reach over an entire area of the building being constructed. 25. The automated brick laying system according to claim 1 wherein the non-contact optical line-of-sight position measuring system is selected from an automated total station, a scanning laser, and a combination of the automated total station and the scanning laser. 