The present subject matter includes a method of producing an apparatus for use in a patient, the method including etching an anode foil, anodizing the anode foil, assembling the anode foil, at least one cathode foil and one or more separators into a capacitor stack adapted to deliver from about 5.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume to about 6.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume at a voltage of between about 465 volts to about 620 volts, inserting the stack into a capacitor case, inserting the capacitor case into a device housing adapted for implant in a patient, connecting the capacitor to a component and sealing the device housing.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of producing an apparatus for use in a patient, comprising: constructing a single defibrillation capacitor, including: etching an anode foil; anodizing the anode foil and forming a dielectric to a thickness greater than 455 nanometers; assembling the anode foil, at least one cathode foil and one or more separators into a capacitor stack adapted to store at least 30 joules at an energy density of about 5.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume to about 6.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume, with the capacitor adapted to deliver maximum energy for a defibrillation pulse at a voltage of between about 465 volts to about 620 volts; inserting the stack into a capacitor case; inserting the single defibrillation capacitor into a device housing for implant in a patient; connecting the single defibrillation capacitor to an electrical component for providing a defibrillation pulse using energy from the single defibrillation capacitor; and sealing the device housing. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein anodizing the anode foil includes forming a hydrous oxide layer on an aluminum foil. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein anodizing the anode foil includes forming a dielectric layer with a thickness of less than approximately 1200 nanometers. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein anodizing the anode foil includes forming a dielectric layer from about 600 nanometers to about 800 nanometers thick. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a hydrous oxide layer on the anode foil; anodizing the anode foil in a bath containing an aqueous solution of approximately 10 to approximately 120 grams per liter boric acid and approximately 2 to approximately 50 parts per million phosphate as electrolyte at a pH of 4.0 to 6.0 and a temperature of approximately 85 degrees Celsius to approximately 95 degrees Celsius, whereby said foil can be anodized at a voltage up to approximately 760 V without scintillation; and interrupting the anodizing process to stabilize the anode foil in a mildly alkaline bath. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the anodizing occurs from approximately 600 volts to approximately 760 volts. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the anodizing occurs from about 650 volts to about 720 volts. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the anodizing occurs from about 670 volts to about 710 volts during formation. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the resistivity of said electrolyte is approximately 1500-3600 ohm-centimeters. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein the phosphate is phosphoric acid. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein the pH of the aqueous solution of approximately 10 to approximately 120 grams per liter is attained by the addition of a reagent selected from one of the group including ammonium and alkali metal hydroxides and ammonium and alkali metal salts. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said reagent is selected from the group consisting of sodium hydroxide and borax. 13. The method of claim 5, wherein the mildly alkaline bath includes an approximately 0.001 to approximately 0.05 molar borax solution having a pH of approximately 8.5 to approximately 9.5 and a temperature of at least 80 degrees Celsius. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the borax solution is buffered by approximately 0.005 molar to approximately 0.05 molar sodium carbonate solution. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein interrupting includes removing the anode foil from the bath more than once, and dipping the anode in the mildly alkaline bath at least twice. 16. A method of producing an apparatus for use in a patient, comprising: constructing a single defibrillation capacitor, including: etching an substantially planar anode; anodizing the substantially planar anode to form a dielectric of a thickness greater than 455 nanometers; assembling into a substantially flat capacitor stack the substantially planar anode, at least one substantially planar cathode and one or more separators electrically isolating the substantially planar anode from the substantially planar cathode, the substantially flat capacitor stack being adapted to store at least 30 joules at an energy density of about 5.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume to about 6.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume, with the capacitor adapted to deliver maximum energy for a defibrillation pulse at a voltage of between about 465 volts to about 620 volts; and inserting the substantially flat capacitor stack into a conductive capacitor case including at least one electrically insulated feedthrough for electrically interconnecting the capacitor stack; inserting the conductive capacitor case into a device housing; electrically connecting the capacitor to an electrical component for providing a defibrillation pulse using energy from the single defibrillation capacitor; and hermetically sealing the device housing. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising anodizing the cathode including coating an aluminum substrate with a cathode coating including titanium oxide. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein anodizing the anode includes forming a dielectric layer from about 600 nanometers to about 800 nanometers thick. 19. A method of producing an apparatus for use in a patient, comprising: constructing a single defibrillation capacitor, including: etching a substantially planar anode; anodizing the substantially planar anode from approximately 600 volts to approximately 760 volts until an aluminum oxide (Al.sub.2O.sub.3) layer from about 600 nm to about 800 nm forms; assembling the substantially planar anode , at least one substantially planar cathode and one or more separators into a substantially flat capacitor stack adapted to store a at least 30 joules at an energy density of about 5.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume to about 6.3 joules per cubic centimeter of capacitor stack volume, with the capacitor adapted to deliver maximum energy for a defibrillation pulse at a voltage of between about 465 volts to about 620 volts; and inserting the substantially flat capacitor stack into a capacitor case including at least one feedthrough adapted to electrically interconnect the capacitor stack; inserting the capacitor case into a device housing adapted for implant in a patient; electrically connecting the capacitor to an electrical component for providing a defibrillation pulse using energy from the single defibrillation capacitor; and sealing the device housing. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising stacking a plurality of substantially planar anodes with a plurality of substantially planar cathodes until the substantially flat capacitor stack has a mass of between approximately 10.7 grams and approximately 11.8 grams. 