The invention relates to a method and a system for batching of supplied objects in batches in such a manner that a batch fulfills predefined criteria as regards for example the total weight range and optionally the number of objects, weight, orientation and/or type(s) of objects. A selective transferal of the objects from means for object transport to batching means is performed by means of one or more handling means of the robot type in as a batch of objects is produced in consideration of said predefined criteria. The batches are produced on said batching means that are moved around said one or more handling means of the robot type.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of batching supplied objects in batches in such a manner that a batch fulfills predefined criteria of total weight range, said method comprising the steps of: determining the weight of each one of said objects; transporting the objects by means for object transport toward a rotating carrier; selectively gripping or picking up a selected one of the objects from said means for object transport for placing at a selected position on said rotating carrier by means of one or more robotic handling means, said selected position being chosen to form a batch of objects on said rotating carrier in consideration of said predefined criteria and the determined weight of the selected one of said objects; rotating said batch of objects in a plane using said rotating carrier; and transporting said batches away from said rotating carrier using means for further transport. 2. The method according to claim 1, whereby each batch further fulfills a predetermined criteria of one or more of the number of objects, object weight, object orientation and/or object type. 3. The method according to claim 1, whereby batching means are arranged in such a manner that a number of batching means move around each of said one or more robotic handling means on said rotating carrier, said number of batching means arranged on said rotating carrier, which rotating carrier is designed for carrying said number of batching means and arranged for turning said number of batching means in a closed loop, while the batches are being produced for placing in said number of batching means. 4. The method according to claim 1, whereby said batches are formed in trays arranged on said rotating carrier. 5. The method according to claim 4, whereby one of said trays is transferred, when the one of said trays holds a batch that is completed, to said means for transporting said batches away from said rotating carrier, and whereby an empty tray is transferred to said rotating carrier after the completed batch has been removed. 6. The method according to claim 1, whereby batching means are used for holding said objects forming said batches, and said batching means are continuously moved around said one or more robotic handling means on said rotating carrier during the batching process. 7. The method according to claim 1, whereby batching means are used for holding said objects forming said batches, and said batching means are moved non-continuously around said one or more robotic handling means on said rotating carrier during the batching process. 8. The method according to claim 4, whereby trays are supplied using a method comprising the steps of: feeding one of said trays to an initial position from a supply of trays; transferring said one of said trays from said initial position to an operative position using ejector means; and returning said ejector means to a waiting position whereby a subsequently released another one of said trays enters said initial position. 9. The method according to claim 1, whereby a batching means is moved around said one or more robotic handling means using said rotating carrier for more than one revolution while a batch of objects is produced on said batching means. 10. A system for batching supplied objects in batches in such a manner that a batch fulfills predefined criteria of total weight range, wherein the system comprises: a device for determining the individual weight of each one of said objects; a rotating carrier; a first conveyor for transporting said objects toward said rotating carrier; one or more robots for effecting a selective transferral of the objects from said first conveyor to said rotating carrier, said robots being designed for selectively gripping or picking up said objects and for depositing each one of said objects at a selected position on said rotating carrier in consideration of the individual weight determined for each one of said objects, whereby a batch of objects is produced in consideration of said predefined criteria, and wherein during production of said batches of objects, said objects are rotated in a plane around said one or more robots via said rotating carrier; and a second conveyor for transporting said batches of objects away from said rotating carrier. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein each batch further fulfills a predetermined criteria of one or more of the number of objects, object weight, object orientation and/or object type. 12. The system according to claim 10, wherein said objects are arranged in such a manner on said rotating carrier that a number of said objects are moved around each of said one or more robots. 13. The system according to claim 10, wherein said batches are produced in trays on said rotating carrier. 14. The system according to claim 10, wherein batches are produced in trays that are arranged on said rotating carrier which is designed for carrying said trays. 15. The system according to claim 14, wherein one of a plurality of carriers is designated for each one of said one or more robots. 16. The system according to claim 10, wherein said system is configured for moving at least some of said objects around said one or more robotic handling means for more than one revolution, while a batch of objects is produced on said rotating carrier. 17. The system according to claim 14, wherein said rotating carrier comprises means for retaining said trays, and wherein said means for retaining said trays comprises a release mechanism. 18. The system according to claim 17, wherein said means for retaining said trays comprises a retainer arm that is influenced by spring means. 19. The system according to claim 14, wherein said rotating carrier comprises means for covering edge parts of said trays. 20. The system according to claim 13, wherein said second conveyor is designed for transferring one of said trays, when a batch is completed in said one of said trays, to means for further transport, handling or packaging. 21. The system according to 10, wherein said system comprises a plurality of said robots, and where batches of different sizes and/or types can be completed at each of said robots, respectively. 22. The method according to claim 1, wherein said rotating carrier rotates a plurality of trays each for containing one of said batches, and wherein said method further comprises the step of, when a batch is completed, transferring the one of said trays including the completed batch to said means for further transport for transport, handling and/or packaging. 23. The system according to claim 10, wherein said selected position on said rotating carrier is in a tray being rotated by said rotating carrier, and wherein, when a batch is completed, said system is adapted for transferring the one of said trays including the completed batch to said second conveyor for transport, handling and/or packaging. 