This invention is an intruder detection system which integrates wireless sensor network and security robots. Multiple ZigBee wireless sensor modules installed in the environment can detect intruders and abnormal conditions with various sensors, and transmit alert to the monitoring center and security robot via the wireless mesh network. The robot can navigate in the environment autonomously and approach to a target place using its localization system. If any possible intruder is detected, the robot can approach to that location, and transmit images to the mobile devices of the securities and users, in order to determine the exact situation in real time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An intruder detection system having autonomous patrol and networked monitoring capability, comprising: a plurality of sensors, deployed throughout an environment to be secured, one of said plurality of sensors sending an intrusion signal comprising at least an identification (ID) number of said one of said plurality of sensors when detecting an intrusion condition; a wireless network for transmitting said intrusion signal sent by said one of said plurality of sensors, said wireless network comprising nodes, wherein each node comprises one or more of the plurality of sensors; a robot capable of autonomously patrolling within the environment to be secured, during which patrol the robot is further capable of receiving said intrusion signal through said wireless network, locating said one of said plurality of sensors in accordance with the ID number of said one sensor sending said intrusion signal, approaching said location to capture an environmental image corresponding to the detected intrusion condition, and sending said environmental image via a wireless image transmitting device after compressing said environmental image; and a remote receiving device for receiving said environmental image. 2. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said wireless network is a mesh network and said intrusion signal sent by said one sensor sending said intrusion signal within any node can be transmitted to said robot via other nodes. 3. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said locating said one of said plurality of sensors comprises review by the robot of a comparison table in accordance with the ID number of said one sensor sending said intrusion signal, contained in said intrusion signal. 4. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said approaching said location comprises positioning of the robot, wherein the robot evaluates both the strength of said plurality of sensors' signals and the orientation and traveling distance of said robot within said environment to be secured. 5. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said robot has a distance measuring device, by which the distance between said robot and an obstacle is determined so that a traveling path of said robot can be adjusted based thereon. 6. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of sensors comprise: at least one of pyro sensors, capacitance microphone sensors and 3-axis accelerometers. 7. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said intrusion condition is selected from the group consisting of any one or more of abnormal sound, abnormal vibration and someone approaching. 8. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said wireless image transmitting device is any one of an RF wireless transmitting device, a 3G mobile-phone card and a WiFi wireless network device. 9. The intruder detection system according to claim 1, wherein said remote receiving device is selected from the group consisting of a notebook computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a smart phone and other mobile devices having a network function. 10. An intruder detection method, comprising a wireless sensor network, a remote receiving device and a robot, the method comprising the following steps: an intruder detection step, in which one sensor of a plurality of sensors deployed throughout an environment to be secured sends an intrusion signal comprising an ID number of said one sensor when detecting an intrusion condition; an intrusion signal transmitting step, in which said intrusion signal is transmitted through the wireless sensor network having said plurality of sensors installed therein; an environmental image capturing step, in which said robot receives said intrusion signal through said wireless sensor network, locates said one sensor in accordance with the ID number of said one sensor, approaches said location to capture an environmental image corresponding to the detected intrusion condition, and after compressing said environmental image, sends said compressed environmental image via a wireless image transmitting device; and a remote receiving step, in which the remote receiving device receives said compressed environmental image. 11. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein said wireless network is constructed as a mesh network and said intrusion signal sent by said one sensor within any node can be transmitted to said robot via other nodes of the network, wherein each node comprises one or more of the plurality of sensors. 12. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein said robot locates said one sensor by looking it up in a comparison table in accordance with the ID number of said one sensor contained in said intrusion signal. 13. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein approaching said location comprises positioning of the robot, wherein the robot evaluates both signal strength positioning which positions said robot according to the strength of said plurality of sensors' signals and odometer positioning which positions said robot by estimating the orientation and traveling distance of said robot within said environment to be secured. 14. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein said robot determines the distance between said robot and an obstacle with a distance measuring device, thereby adjusting a traveling path of said robot. 15. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein said plurality of sensors comprises: at least one of pyro sensors, capacitance microphone sensors and 3-axis accelerometers. 16. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein said intrusion condition is selected from the group consisting of any one or more of abnormal sound, abnormal vibration and someone approaching. 17. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein said wireless image transmitting device is any one of an RF wireless transmitting device, a 3G mobile-phone card and a WiFi wireless network device. 18. The intruder detection method according to claim 10, wherein said remote receiving device is selected from the group consisting of a notebook computer, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a smart phone and other mobile devices having a network function. 