A method and apparatus for radiation treatment planning are described. The method includes receiving a plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters, and sequentially optimizing the plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving at a treatment planning system a plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters, wherein the plurality of radiation-treatment planning parameters represent characteristics of radiation applied to an anatomical region via radiation beams; and sequentially optimizing the plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters using the treatment planning system to obtain an optimized treatment plan of a plurality of radiation beams to be directed at the anatomical region, wherein sequentially optimizing comprises sequentially and individually optimizing the plurality of treatment-planning parameters in an order specified by a script, and wherein the script is a sequence of optimization steps, wherein the plurality of treatment-planning parameters comprises a plurality of optimization constraints of an optimization cost function, and wherein sequentially and individually optimizing comprises: executing a first optimization step of the script to optimize a first optimization constraint of the plurality of optimization constraints to a first goal value; applying a result of the first optimization step as an additional constraint for subsequent optimization steps; and executing one or more subsequent optimization steps of the script to optimize one or more additional optimization constraints of the plurality of optimization constraints without violating the additional constraint. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein sequentially and individually optimizing further comprises relaxing the result of the first optimization step at most by a relaxation value during execution of the one or more subsequent optimization steps. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein sequentially and individually optimizing comprises sequentially optimizing each of the optimization steps without violating any of one or more absolute constraints. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first optimization step is applied to a target volume of interest (VOI), and wherein at least one of the one or more subsequent optimization steps is applied to a critical structure. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising saving the script in memory. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising defining one or more absolute constraints that cannot be violated during said sequentially optimizing, wherein the one or more absolute constraints comprise at least one of the following: a maximum monitor units (MU) for the treatment plan; a maximum MU per beam; and a maximum MU per node. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein sequentially and individually optimizing further comprises: defining a maximum dose for a first shell structure that at least partially surrounds a planned target volume (PTV) containing at least a portion of a target volume in the anatomical region; and defining a maximum dose for a second shell structure that at least partially surrounds the PTV, wherein the maximum dose for the first shell structure is less than the maximum dose for the second shell structure. 8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving at a treatment planning system a plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters, wherein the plurality of radiation-treatment planning parameters represent characteristics of radiation applied to an anatomical region via radiation beams; and sequentially optimizing the plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters using the treatment planning system to obtain an optimized treatment plan of a plurality of radiation beams to be directed at the anatomical region, wherein sequentially optimizing comprises: performing a first optimization step to optimize a first of the plurality of treatment-planning parameters; applying a result of the first optimization step as an additional constraint to a second optimization step; and performing the second optimization step to optimize a second of the plurality of treatment-planning parameters, and wherein constraints of the first optimization step include one or more absolute constraints, wherein constraints of the second optimization step include the absolute constraints and a result of the first optimization that can deviate no more than a first relaxation value upon execution of subsequent optimization steps, wherein constraints of the third optimization step include the absolute constraints, the result of the first optimization step that can deviate no more than a first relaxation value upon execution by subsequent optimization steps and a result of the second optimization that can deviate no more than a second relaxation value upon execution by subsequent optimization steps, and wherein constraints of the fourth optimization step include the absolute constraints, the result of the first optimization step that can deviate no more than a first relaxation value upon execution by subsequent optimization steps, the result of the second optimization step that can deviate no more than a second relaxation value upon execution by subsequent optimization steps, and a result of the third optimization step that can deviate not more than a third relaxation value. 9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving at a treatment planning system a plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters, wherein the plurality of radiation-treatment planning parameters represent characteristics of radiation applied to an anatomical region via radiation beams; and sequentially optimizing the plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters using the treatment planning system to obtain an optimized treatment plan of a plurality of radiation beams to be directed at the anatomical region, wherein sequentially optimizing comprises sequentially and individually optimizing the plurality of treatment-planning parameters in an order specified by a script, and wherein the script is a sequence of optimization steps, wherein each of the plurality of optimization steps of the script corresponds with a treatment-planning objective, and wherein sequentially and individually optimizing comprises: defining a first of the plurality of optimization steps to be applied to a planned target volume (PTV) near the spine of a patient, wherein the first optimization step comprises optimizing a minimum dose (OMI) to the PTV to achieve a first treatment-planning objective; defining a second optimization step to be applied to the PTV, wherein the second optimization step comprises optimizing coverage (OCO) of the PTV to achieve a second treatment-planning objective; defining a third optimization step to be applied to a first volume of interest (VOI) containing at least a portion of the spine, wherein the third optimization step comprises optimizing a mean dose (OME) of the first VOI to achieve a third treatment-planning objective; defining a fourth optimization step to optimize a total of monitor units (MU) in the treatment plan to achieve a fourth treatment-planning objective; and sequentially optimizing the first, second, third, and fourth optimization steps individually and in sequence. 10. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving at a treatment planning system a plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters, wherein the plurality of radiation-treatment planning parameters represent characteristics of radiation applied to an anatomical region via radiation beams; and sequentially optimizing the plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters using the treatment planning system to obtain an optimized treatment plan of a plurality of radiation beams to be directed at the anatomical region, wherein sequentially optimizing comprises sequentially and individually optimizing the plurality of treatment-planning parameters in an order specified by a script, and wherein the script is a sequence of optimization steps, wherein each of the plurality of optimization steps of the script corresponds with a treatment-planning objective, wherein sequentially and individually optimizing comprises: defining a first optimization step to be applied to a planned target volume (PTV) near a lung of a patient, wherein the first optimization step comprises optimizing a minimum dose (OMI) to the PTV to achieve a first treatment-planning objective; defining a second optimization step to be applied to the PTV, wherein the second optimization step comprises optimizing coverage (OCO) of the PTV to achieve a second treatment-planning objective; defining a third optimization step to optimize a total of monitor units (MU) in the treatment plan to achieve a third treatment-planning objective; defining a fourth optimization step to be applied to a first shell structure that at least partially surrounds the PTV, wherein the fourth optimization step comprises optimizing conformality (OCI) of the first shell structure to achieve a fourth treatment-planning objective; defining a fifth optimization step to be applied to a second shell structure that at least partially surrounds the PTV, wherein the fifth optimization step comprises optimizing conformality (OCI) of the second shell structure to achieve a fifth treatment-planning objective, wherein the maximum dose for the first shell structure is less than the maximum dose for the second shell structure; and sequentially optimizing the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth optimization steps individually and in sequence. 11. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving input at a treatment planning system to define a plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters, wherein the plurality of radiation-treatment planning parameters represent characteristics of radiation applied to an anatomical region via radiation beams; and generating a script from the plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters using the treatment planning system, wherein the script comprises an ordered sequence of a plurality of optimization steps to obtain an optimized treatment plan of a plurality of radiation beams to be directed at the anatomical region. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising saving the script in memory for later retrieval. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the script further comprises loading a script from memory, the saved script comprising one or more pre-defined optimization steps. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein generating the script further comprises editing at least one of the one or more pre-defined optimization steps associated with the loaded script. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more pre-defined optimization steps are based on one or more past radiation treatment plans. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more pre-defined optimization steps are pre-defined by a manufacturer of a treatment planning system that generates the script. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more optimization steps are pre-defined by a learning process based on a previous radiation treatment plan for the anatomical volume of interest. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the script further comprises loading a script from memory, the saved script comprising one or more pre-defined optimization steps and one or more pre-defined non-optimizable inputs, wherein the non-optimizable inputs comprises one or more volumes of interest (VOI), each having a VOI name and a VOI type, and wherein the one or more pre-defined optimization steps comprise a minimum or maximum dose constraint for each VOI. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the script further comprising loading a saved script from memory, the saved script comprising a plurality of pre-defined optimization steps to define the plurality of optimization steps of the script. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of optimization steps comprises one or more optimization steps applied to at least one of beam geometry or beam usage. 21. The method of claim 11, further comprising executing the script to sequentially optimize each of the plurality of optimization steps in the order specified by the script, wherein the executing is performed by the treatment planning system. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the executing comprises: performing a first optimization step to optimize a first constraint towards a first goal value; applying a result value of the first optimization step as an additional constraint to a second optimization step, wherein the additional constraint may be relaxed up to a relaxation value in subsequent optimization steps; and performing a second optimization step to optimize a second constraint towards a second goal value, wherein the second optimization step may relax the additional constraint up to the relaxation value. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising receiving user-input at the treatment planning system via a user interface to define the relaxation value and the first and second goal values. 24. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving user-input at the treatment planning system via a user interface to define the ordered sequence of the plurality of optimization steps. 25. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving user-input at the treatment planning system via a user interface to define the ordered sequence of the plurality of optimization steps according to a user-defined relative difficulty for a particular optimization step to be achieved. 26. The method of claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of optimization steps corresponds to a treatment-planning objective, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving user-input at the treatment planning system via a user interface to define the ordered sequence of the plurality of optimization steps according to an importance of the plurality of optimization steps, and according to the relative difficulty for a particular optimization step to be achieved. 27. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating a script using a treatment planning system, wherein the script is an ordered sequence of a plurality of optimization steps to be applied to a target volume and the surrounding region as part of a radiation treatment plan, wherein the plurality of optimization steps represent characteristics of radiation applied to the target volume and the surrounding region of a patient via radiation beams; and executing the script using the treatment planning system, wherein executing the script comprises performing a linear programming optimization of a multi-constraint optimization cost function, wherein performing the linear programming optimization comprises performing each of the plurality of optimization steps in the ordered sequence to individually optimize a constraint of the multi-constraint optimization cost function, wherein the multi-constraint optimization cost function represents an optimized treatment plan of a plurality of radiation beams to be directed at the target volume and the surrounding region. 28. The method of claim 27, further comprising: receiving at the treatment planning system user-input to define one or more absolute constraints which cannot be violated during the execution of the script; and receiving at the treatment planning system user-input to define goal values for each of the plurality of optimization steps, wherein the performing each of the plurality of optimization steps in the ordered sequence comprises: performing a first optimization step to optimize a first constraint of the multi-constraint optimization cost function to a first goal value, representative of a dose to be applied to the target volume, wherein the first optimization step maximizes the minimum dose to be delivered to the target volume without violating any of the one or more absolute constraints, and wherein the result of the first optimization step is retained as an additional constraint for subsequent optimization steps; and performing a subsequent optimization step to optimize a second constraint of the multi-constraint optimization cost function to a second goal value without violating any of the one or more absolute constraints or the additional constraint. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the performing each of the plurality of optimization steps in the ordered sequence further comprises relaxing the result of the first optimization step using the treatment planning system while performing the subsequent optimization step, wherein relaxing the result allows the treatment planning system to change the additional constraint at most by a relaxation value while performing the subsequent optimization step. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the plurality of optimization steps comprise a first optimization step to be applied to the target volume and a second optimization step to be applied to a critical structure in the surrounding region of the target volume. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein the plurality of optimization steps comprise a first optimization step to be applied to the target volume and a second optimization step to be applied to a shell structure that at least partially surrounds the target volume. 32. The method of claim 29, wherein each of the constraints of the multi-constraint optimization cost function corresponds to a treatment-planning objective, and wherein each of the treatment-planning objectives is at least one of the following: 33. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more absolute constraints comprise at least one of the following: a maximum monitor unit (MU) for each beam; a maximum MU for each node; a maximum MU for the radiation treatment plan; a maximum dose for a target volume of interest (VOI) in the radiation treatment plan; or a minimum dose for another VOI in the radiation treatment plan. optimize minimum dose (OMI) of the target volume by the treatment planning system; optimize coverage (OCO) of the target volume by the treatment planning system; optimize homogeneity (OHI) of the target volume by the treatment planning system; optimize maximum dose (OMA) a critical structure near the target volume by the treatment planning system; optimize mean dose (OME) of the critical structure near the target volume by the treatment planning system; optimize conformality (OCI) of a shell structure that at least partially surrounds the target volume by the treatment planning system; or optimize monitor units (OMU) to be applied to the target volume by the treatment planning system. 34. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a treatment planning system, cause the treatment planning system to perform a method, comprising: receiving input at the treatment planning system to define a plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters, wherein the plurality of radiation-treatment planning parameters represent characteristics of radiation applied to an anatomical region via radiation beams; and generating a script from the plurality of radiation treatment-planning parameters using the treatment planning system, wherein the script comprises an ordered sequence of a plurality of optimization steps to obtain an optimized treatment plan of a plurality of radiation beams to be directed at the anatomical region. 35. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 34, further comprising saving the script in memory for later retrieval. 36. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 34, wherein generating the script further comprising loading a saved script from memory, the saved script comprising a plurality of pre-defined optimization steps to define the plurality of optimization steps of the script. 37. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 34, further comprising executing the script to sequentially optimize each of the plurality of optimization steps in the order specified by the script, wherein the executing comprises: performing a first optimization step to optimize a first constraint towards a first goal value; applying a result value of the first optimization step as an additional constraint to a second optimization step, wherein the additional constraint may be relaxed up to a relaxation value in subsequent optimization steps; and performing a second optimization step to optimize a second constraint towards a second goal value, wherein the second optimization step may relax the additional constraint up to the relaxation value. 