A rehabilitation apparatus with at least three degrees of freedom of motion, comprising: a plurality of brakes; a motor, wherein the motor is operationally connected to the brakes; a plurality of surfaces, wherein each of a plurality of the surfaces correlates to a brake; and, wherein when the motor is activated, the brakes are selectively advanced to make contact with the surfaces causing friction between the brakes and the surfaces and thus causing variable resistance in the three degrees of freedom to the apparatus based on the extent of advancement of the brakes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of exercising a patient using an apparatus provided with at least three degrees of freedom, comprising: commencing patient exercise on said apparatus; activating a motor located on said apparatus, wherein said motor is operatively connected to a plurality of brakes, each brake associated with a surface and at least one said degree of freedom; selectively advancing at least one brake using said motor to create friction between said brake and said surface and to resist movement in at least one degree of freedom. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein advancing at least one brake is based on patient ability. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein advancing at least one brake is based on a predetermined exercise program. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein advancing at least one brake is based on measured patient performance. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the patient is elderly. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said patient exercise is a wellness exercise. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein when variable friction is created based on the extent of advancement of said brakes. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein creating variable friction on a first surface causes variable resistance in at least one degree of freedom. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein creating variable friction on a second surface causes variable resistance on at least a second axis. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said motor is activated automatically. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said motor and at least one brake are used to provide frictional force against the patient during exercise. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein said friction is created in accordance with patient ability. 13. A method according to claim 1, further comprising compensating for inaccuracy between the motor and at least one said brakes using a spring. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said commencing, activating and advancing are controlled by a controller. 15. A method according to claim 14, further comprising predicting exercise performance of the patient using the controller. 