A system for moving robots in accordance with a predetermined algorithm. The system includes: a surface having a position-coding pattern which identifies the surface; mobile robots for moving across the surface, each robot being configured for sensing and decoding the position-coding pattern; and a computer system in communication with the mobile robots. The computer system is configured to send instructions for moving each mobile robot relative to the surface in response to position information corresponding to that mobile robot. Further, the computer system is configured to determine instructions for moving each mobile robot using a predetermined algorithm. The predetermined algorithm is selected on the basis of the identity of the surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for moving mobile robots in accordance with a predetermined algorithm, said system comprising: a surface having a position-coding pattern disposed thereon, the position-coding pattern identifying an identity of the surface; one or more mobile robots for moving across said surface, each robot being configured for sensing and decoding the position-coding pattern; and a computer system in communication with said one or more mobile robots, wherein said computer system is configured to send instructions for moving each mobile robot relative to the surface in response to position information corresponding to said mobile robot, wherein said computer system is configured to determine instructions for moving each mobile robot using a predetermined algorithm, said predetermined algorithm being selected on the basis of the identity of the surface, and wherein said position-coding pattern encodes, at each of at least a given density of points on the surface, two-dimensional coordinates of the point. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each mobile robot comprises an on-board controller configured for wireless communication with the computer system; a drive system connected to the controller, said drive system being configured for moving and steering the mobile robot relative to the surface; and an image sensor for optically sensing the position-coding pattern, said image sensor system being connected to the controller such that said controller can communicate position data the computer system. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to report arrival at a specified coordinate position to the computer system. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein each mobile robot incorporates a display. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said display identifies a information corresponding to a respective mobile robot. 6. The system of claim 1 comprising a plurality of mobile robots, wherein said computer system is contained in one of said mobile robots. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the surface is a game board and each mobile robot is a game piece for said game board. 