A method of preparing a joint for a prosthesis in a patient. The method includes obtaining scan data associated with the joint of the patient, preparing a three-dimensional image of the joint based on the scan data, preparing an interactive initial surgical plan based on the scan data, sending the surgical plan to a surgeon, receiving a finalized surgical plan from the surgeon, and preparing an image of a patient-specific alignment guide.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a joint for a prosthesis in a patient, the method comprising: mating a three-dimensional curved inner surface of a patient-specific alignment guide to a joint surface of the patient, the inner surface nestingly conforming and mateable only in one position on the joint surface of the patient; positioning a drill guide having a body and first and second guiding bores in alignment with corresponding first and second guiding apertures of the alignment guide; drilling first and second locating holes into the joint surface through the first and second guiding apertures; inserting first and second guide elements through the first and second guiding apertures of the alignment guide into the first and second locating holes in the joint surface; drilling third and fourth locating holes through corresponding third and fourth guiding apertures of the alignment guide; removing the alignment guide without removing the first and second guide elements; supporting a first cutting device on the first and second guide elements after the alignment guide is removed; resecting the joint surface using the first cutting device after the alignment guide is removed; supporting a second cutting device using third and fourth pins inserted into the third and fourth locating holes; and resecting the joint surface using the second cutting device after the alignment guide is removed. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first cutting device is a robotic device on the guide element. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein removing the alignment guide without removing the first and second guide elements includes sliding the alignment guide off the first and second guide elements through peripheral openings of the first and second guiding apertures. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising inserting a fixation element through a corresponding aperture of the alignment guide. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising securing the alignment guide to the joint surface with a pin. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the joint surface that is mated with the inner surface of the patient-specific alignment guide includes articular cartilage. 7. A method of preparing a knee joint for a prosthesis in a patient, the method comprising: mating a three-dimensional curved inner surface of a patient-specific femoral alignment guide onto a femoral joint surface of the patient, the inner surface configured to nestingly conform and mate only in one position to the femoral joint surface of the patient, the femoral alignment guide having first and second guiding apertures; positioning a drill guide having a body and first and second guiding bores in alignment with the first and second guiding apertures of the femoral alignment guide; drilling first and second locating holes into the femoral joint surface through the first and second guiding apertures; inserting first and second guide elements through the femoral alignment guide into the first and second locating holes; drilling a pair of distal locating holes through a pair of corresponding distal apertures of the femoral alignment guide; removing the femoral alignment guide without removing the first and second guide elements; supporting a distal cutting block on the first and second guide elements after removing the alignment guide; making a distal resection of the femoral joint surface using the distal cutting block; inserting corresponding pins of a femoral resection block in the distal locating holes after removing the alignment guide; and resecting the femoral joint surface with a blade passing through a cutting slot of the femoral resection block. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: mating a three-dimensional curved inner surface of a patient-specific tibial alignment guide onto a tibial joint surface of the patient, the inner surface nestingly conforming and mateable only in one position to the tibial joint surface of the patient; positioning a tibial drill guide having a body with first and second guiding bores in alignment with corresponding first and second guiding apertures of the tibial alignment guide; drilling first and second tibial locating holes into the tibial joint surface through the first and second guiding apertures of the tibial alignment guide; inserting first and second tibial guide elements through the tibial alignment guide into the tibial joint surface; removing the tibial alignment guide without removing the first and second tibial guide elements; supporting a tibial resection device on the first and second tibial guide elements after the tibial alignment guide is removed; and resecting the tibial joint surface with the tibial resection device. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the tibial joint surface that is mated with the inner surface of the patient-specific tibial alignment guide includes articular cartilage. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising inserting at least one fixation element through the femoral alignment guide. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the first and second guide elements are pins. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the femoral alignment guide has variable thickness. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the first and second guiding apertures are counter-bored. 14. The method of claim 7, further comprising sliding the femoral alignment guide off the first and second guide elements through peripheral openings of the first and second guiding apertures of the femoral alignment guide. 15. The method of claim 7, wherein the femoral joint surface that is mated with the inner surface of the patient-specific femoral alignment guide includes articular cartilage. 