A robotic gravity-powered generator includes two containers, one containing fluid with an inflatable bag and attached weight immersed in the fluid, and the second containing a generator. A pneumatic pump inflates the bag, permitting it to float to the top of the first container; the bag is then deflated, and moves down through the fluid due to the force of gravity. The movement of the bag up and down is converted to rotary force which operates the generator, thereby generating electricity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gravity-powered generator comprising: a first container which contains fluid; an inflatable bag within the fluid in the first container; weight attached to said inflatable bag sufficient to force the inflatable bag to the bottom of the first container when it is not inflated; a pneumatic pump attached to the inflatable bag to inflate the bag, permitting it to float toward the top of the fluid in the first container; a mechanical slide to which said inflatable bag is attached to guide the inflatable bag up and down; means for transforming the vertical force into rotary energy; a second container adjacent to the first container; a generator inside the second container powered by the energy forces generated by the movement of the inflatable bag up and down within the fluid in the first container; a generator shaft connecting the inflatable bag assembly to the generator, such shaft operable to rotate by energy provided by linear up and down travel converted to rotary power by means of a ball screw or by a pinion and endless gear rack; a gear box inside the second container; controls for controlling the operation of the pneumatic pump and generator; controls for controlling the electrical output and electrical distribution of the gravity-powered generator; and energy storage in the form of batteries and or fast charging and fast release capacitor bank. 2. The gravity-powered generator of claim 1 in which the fluid contains lubricants and anti-rust agents. 3. The gravity-powered generator of claim 1 further comprising means to hold the inflatable bag at the bottom of the first container when it is inflated. 4. The gravity-powered generator of claim 1 further comprising a sensor to sense the volume and position of the inflatable bag. 5. A method for producing electricity comprising: inflating an inflatable bag situated within a container which contains fluid, thereby causing said inflatable bag to rise within the fluid on a mechanical slide and ball screw shaft, and thereby turning a generator shaft to create electricity; deflating the inflatable bag, thereby permitting weights attached to said inflatable bag to force the inflatable bag toward the bottom of the fluid on a mechanical slide and ball screw shaft, and thereby turning a generator shaft to create electricity; and storing or distributing the electricity created by the generator. 