A radiation beam analyzer for measuring the distribution and intensity of radiation produced by a Cyberknife.RTM.. The analyzer employs a relative small tank of water into which a sensor is placed. The distance between the sensor and the radiation source is not varied. There are two methods to maintain the SAD (source to axis distance) constant. A first method maintains the position of detector fixed, utilizing a holder designed to retain the detector, and raises or lowers the small tank of water. A second method moves the detector up or down with a raising and lower mechanism in one direction and synchronically moves the small tank of water in the opposite direction with another raising and lowering mechanism. The second method also keeps the SAD constant. These methods position the detector relative to the radiation source to simulate the location of a malady within a patient's body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radiation beam analyzer for detecting radiation dosimetry of a beam emitted along an axis from a radiotherapy treatment device comprising: a dynamic phantom body formed of a material having a density proximally that of a human body; a tank containing said dynamic phantom body; at least one dosimentry probe constructed and arranged to sense photons and electrons, said at least one dosimentry probe positioned within said dynamic phantom body; a carriage supporting said tank and said dynamic phantom body; a guideway, said carriage secured to said guideway; said tank and said dynamic phantom body positioned on said carriage; and a mechanism incrementally moving said carriage and said dynamic phantom body in a substantially vertical, radial, transverse or diagonal direction relative to said guideway; the distance between a radiation source and the axis of a beam emitted from the radiation source relative to said at least one dosimetry probe being constant; whereby movement of said tank and said dynamic phantom body through a series of locations is carried out so as to provide sufficient data to determine the proper dose of radiation required for radiotherapy treatment. 2. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said dosimentry probe is an ion chamber. 3. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said dynamic phantom body includes a tank made from an acrylic material. 4. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said movement is isocentric. 5. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 including a radiotherapy treatment device, said radiotherapy treatment device is a linear accelerator. 6. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said dosimentry probe is at least one diode. 7. A radiation beam analyzer for detecting radiation dosimetry of a beam emitted along an axis from a radiotherapy treatment device comprising: a dynamic phantom body formed of a material having a density proximally that of a human body; a tank containing said dynamic phantom body; at least one dosimetry probe constructed and arranged to sense photons and electrons, said at least one dosimentry probe positioned within said dynamic phantom body; a carriage supporting said dynamic phantom body; a guideway, said carriage secured to said guideway; said tank and said dynamic phantom body positioned on said carriage; a first mechanism incrementally moving said carriage, said tank and said dynamic phantom body in a substantially vertical, radial, transverse or diagonal direction relative to said guideway; a second mechanism incrementally moving said at least one dosimetry probe within said tank and said dynamic phantom body relative to said guideway in a vertical direction; and a controller connected to and operating said first and said second mechanisms to move both said tank and said at least one dosimetry probe relative to each other to maintain the distance between a radiation source and the axis of a beam emitted from the radiation source relative to said at least one dosimetry probe constant; whereby movement of said dynamic phantom body and said at least one dosimetry probe through a series of locations is carried out so as to provide sufficient data to determine the proper dose of radiation required for radiotherapy treatment. 8. The radiation scanning system of claim 7 wherein said dosimentry probe is an ion chamber. 9. The radiation scanning system of claim 7 wherein said dynamic phantom body includes a tank made from an acrylic material. 10. The radiation scanning system of claim 7 wherein said movement is isocentric. 11. The radiation scanning system of claim 7 including a radiotherapy treatment device, said radiotherapy treatment device is a linear accelerator. 12. The radiation scanning system of claim 7 wherein said dosimentry probe is at least one diode. 13. A method of calibrating a radiotherapy treatment device comprising: providing a source of radiation along an axis; providing a dynamic phantom body formed of a material having a density proximally that of a human body; providing a tank containing said dynamic phantom body; providing at least one dosimetry probe constructed and arranged to sense photons and electrons; positioning said at least one dosimentry probe within said dynamic phantom body; supporting said dynamic phantom body and said tank on a carriage; securing said carriage to a guideway; and incrementally moving said carriage, said tank and said dynamic phantom body in a substantially vertical, radial, transverse or diagonal direction relative to said guideway; incrementally moving said at least one dosimetry probe within said dynamic phantom body; and employing a controller to simultaneously move both said tank and said at least one dosimetry probe relative to each other while maintaining the distance between a radiation source and the axis of a beam emitted from the radiation source relative to said at least one dosimetry probe constant; whereby movement of said dynamic phantom body through a series of locations is carried out so as to provide sufficient data to determine the proper dose of radiation required for radiotherapy treatment. 