Provided are methods of detecting the presence or amount of a vitamin D metabolite in a sample using mass spectrometry. The methods generally comprise ionizing a vitamin D metabolite in a sample and detecting the amount of the ion to determine the presence or amount of the vitamin D metabolite in the sample. Also provided are methods to detect the presence or amount of two or more vitamin D metabolites in a single assay.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the amount of a vitamin D metabolite in a sample by tandem mass spectrometry, comprising: (a) generating a protonated and dehydrated precursor ion of said vitamin D metabolite; (b) generating one or more fragment ions of said precursor ion; and (c) detecting the amount of one or more of said ions generated in step (a) or (b) or both and relating the detected ions to the amount of said vitamin D metabolite in said sample. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample is subjected to a purification step prior to ionization. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said purification step comprises chromatography. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said chromatography comprises liquid chromatography. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said chromatography comprises high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). 6. The method of claim 2, wherein said purification step comprises protein precipitation. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said purification step does not include high turbulence liquid chromatography (HTLC). 8. The method of claim 2, wherein said purification step comprises chiral chromatography. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample or said vitamin D metabolite is not subjected to gas-chromatography prior to said ionization step. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said vitamin D metabolite is 25-hydroxyvitamin D.sub.3. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said vitamin D metabolite is 25-hydroxyvitamin D.sub.2. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said vitamin D metabolite is 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D.sub.2. 13. A method for determining the amounts of two or more vitamin D metabolites in a sample in a single assay, said method comprising: (a) ionizing two or more vitamin D metabolites to generate protonated and dehydrated precursor ions specific for each of said two or more vitamin D metabolites; (b) generating one or more fragment ions of each of said precursor ions; and (c) detecting the amount of one or more of said ions generated in step (a) or (b) or both and relating the detected ions to the amounts of said two or more vitamin D metabolites in said sample. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said sample is subjected to a purification step prior to said ionization step. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said purification step comprises chromatography. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said chromatography comprises liquid chromatography. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said chromatography comprises high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). 18. The method of claim 14, wherein said purification step comprises protein precipitation and does not include high turbulence liquid chromatography. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein said sample or said two or more vitamin D metabolites are not subjected to gas-chromatography prior to said ionization step. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein said vitamin D metabolites comprise 25-hydroxyvitamin D.sub.3 and 25-hydroxyvitamin D.sub.2. 21. The method of claim 13, wherein said two or more vitamin D metabolites comprise one or more vitamin D metabolites selected from the group consisting of 25-hydroxyvitamin D.sub.3, 25-hydroxyvitamin D.sub.2, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D.sub.3 and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D.sub.2. 22. The method of claim 13, wherein said two or more vitamin D metabolites comprise 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D.sub.3 and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D.sub.2. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein said vitamin D metabolite is 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. 