An apparatus and method for in vivo and ex vivo control, detection and measurements of radiation in brachytherapy accomplished through scintillating material detection. One example includes scintillating fibers placed along a delivery guide such as a catheter for measuring applied radiation levels during brachytherapy treatments, sensing locations of a radiation source or providing feedback of sensed radiation. The catheter may also be a mammosite type catheter. The scintillating fibers provide light output levels correlating to the levels of radiation striking the fibers. The output may then be used to measure and compute radiation distribution maps using Monte Carlo reconstruction simulation. Adjustments to a radiation treatment may be made as needed based on actual and measured applied dosages. Characteristics of a radiation source may also be measured using scintillating materials.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting radiation for use in radiation therapy, said method comprising the steps of: inserting a radiation detector including scintillating material into a biological subject; measuring radiation levels for multiple orientations of a radiation source in relation to said radiation detector; and recording said measured radiation levels and mapping radiation distribution in the multiple orientations for use in radiation treatment. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of recording includes associating at least one of directionality and intensity with said multiple orientations. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said scintillating material includes at least one of: scintillating fibers, scintillating gas, and scintillating crystals. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of inserting inserts a radiation detector comprising a catheter. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said radiation detector includes an expandable portion. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of inserting includes inserting a balloon catheter. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of inserting includes inserting a balloon catheter with said scintillating material arranged along a length of the balloon. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising creating a dose map. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising inserting a second radiation detector into the biological subject and creating a 3-dimensional dose map. 10. An apparatus for detecting radiation for use in radiation therapy, comprising: a radiation detector having a flexible housing with scintillating material arranged along a length of said flexible housing, said scintillating material emitting a light level in proportion to sensed incident levels of radiation, thereby providing an indication of a detected radiation dose. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said radiation detector comprises a catheter. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said flexible housing includes a balloon. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said radiation detector is configured to be implantable in vivo. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said radiation detector is configured to be connectable to a photo detector for measuring the sensed incident levels of radiation. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said scintillating material is configured to conform to an outer surface of the radiation detector. 16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said scintillating material includes at least one of: scintillating fibers, scintillating gas or scintillating crystals. 17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said scintillating material lines a surface of the flexible housing. 18. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least two scintillating fibers wherein cross verification of signals between two locations of said at least two scintillating fibers yields local dose information. 19. A radiation detector for use in radiation therapy, said detector comprising: scintillating material responsive to radiation and configured to be coupled to a photo detector, wherein said scintillating material is insertable in a biological subject and provides light output indicative of sensed radiation levels, wherein said scintillating material is configured to form at least part of an outer wall of an expandable catheter. 20. The radiation detector of claim 19, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least one of: a scintillating liquid, scintillating gas, or a scintillating crystal. 21. The radiation detector of claim 19, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least one scintillating fiber. 22. The combination of the radiation detector of claim 19 and said photo detector. 23. The radiation detector of claim 19, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least two scintillating fibers and wherein cross verification of signals between two locations of the at least two scintillating fibers yields local dose information. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the radiation source to a new orientation. 