The invention provides for a mounting arrangement for a printhead assembly having a plurality of modular printhead tiles each having a plurality of micro-electromechanical nozzle arrangements for printing on a printing medium. Each tile has a flex PCB with which to provide the tile with electrical energy. The mounting arrangement includes a support defining retaining clips and channels operatively housing electrical busbars, as well as a pressure plate defining holes shaped and dimensioned to complementarily receive the retaining clips to engage the support which urges the flex PCBs against the busbars to provide electrical power to printhead tiles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mounting arrangement for a printhead assembly having a plurality of modular printhead tiles each having a plurality of micro-electromechanical nozzle arrangements for printing on a printing medium, each tile having a flex printed circuit board (PCB) with which to provide the tile with electrical energy, the mounting arrangement comprising: a support defining retaining clips and channels operatively housing electrical busbars; and a pressure plate having holes through which the retaining clips are passed and retained so as to contact the pressure plate thereby mounting the pressure plate to the support which urges the flex PCBs against the busbars to provide electrical power to printhead tiles. 2. The mounting arrangement of claim 1, wherein the pressure plate includes a curved lower portion which serves as a means of assisting in demounting the pressure plate from the support. 3. The mounting arrangement of claim 1, wherein the pressure plate includes a raised portion which is positioned on a rear surface of the pressure plate with respect to a mounting direction on the support so as to be aligned with the busbars with the flex PCBs lying therebetween when the pressure plate is mounted on the support. 4. The mounting arrangement of claim 3, wherein the raised portion of the pressure plate includes a pressure polymer. 5. The mounting arrangement of claim 3, wherein the pressure plate is formed to have a spring-like resilience which urges the flex PCBs into electrical contact with the busbars with the raised portion providing insulation between the pressure plate and the flex PCBs. 6. The mounting arrangement of claim 1, wherein the support includes extending arm portions with upper retaining clips and lower retaining clips having tab portions which engage corresponding holes of the pressure plate. 7. The mounting arrangement of claim 6, wherein the lower retaining clips are configured so that a tab portion of one of the holes of the pressure plate is retainable against an inner surface of the retaining clip. 