Certain embodiments provide a method for crystallizing a GPCR. The method may employ a fusion protein comprising: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), where the first portion comprises the TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of the GPCR; b) a stable, folded protein insertion; and c) a second portion of the GPCR, where the second portion comprises the TM6 and TM7 regions of the GPCR.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated GPCR fusion protein comprising, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises TM6 and TM7 regions of said GPCR. 2. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said isolated GPCR fusion protein is present in an isolated membrane. 3. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said isolated GPCR fusion protein is present on the surface of a cell. 4. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said isolated GPCR fusion protein is epitope tagged. 5. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said isolated GPCR fusion protein is active. 6. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 7. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to a wild-type lysozyme. 8. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of T4 lysozyme. 9. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring GPCR. 10. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a non-naturally occurring GPCR. 11. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequence of said first and second portions of said GPCR are least 80% identical to amino acid sequences of a wild type GPCR. 12. The isolated GPCR fusion protein acid of claim 1, wherein said a GPCR is selected from the group consisting of: a receptor for a biogenic amine, a dopamine receptor, a serotonin receptor, an adrenergic receptor, a .beta.2-adrenergic receptor, a melanocortin receptor subtype 4, a ghrelin receptor, a metabotropic glutamate receptor and a chemokine receptor. 13. The isolated GPCR fusion protein of claim 1, wherein said domain is in the range of from 100 to 200 amino acids in length. 14. A polypeptide comprising, from N-terminus to C-terminus: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is N-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR; b) a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; c) a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is C-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR. 15. The polypeptide of claim 14, wherein said domain spaces the C-terminal end of the first portion of said GPCR and the N-terminal end of the second region of said GPCR so that the closest alpha carbon atoms at said C-terminal end and said N-terminal end are spaced by a distance of in the range of 6 .ANG. to 16 .ANG.. 16. An isolated G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) comprising an IC3 loop containing a substitution that comprises the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme. 