A method for enhancing operational efficiency of a remote vehicle using a diagnostic behavior. The method comprises inputting and analyzing data received from a plurality of sensors to determine the existence of deviations from normal operation of the remote vehicle, updating parameters in a reference mobility model based on deviations from normal operation, and revising strategies to achieve an operational goal of the remote vehicle to accommodate deviations from normal operation. An embedded simulation and training system for a remote vehicle. The system comprises a software architecture installed on the operator control unit and including software routines and drivers capable of carrying out mission simulations and training.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for implementing a retrotraverse behavior for a remote vehicle configured to communicate with an operator control unit when a control signal from operator control unit is not received, the system comprising: a control system on the remote vehicle including a memory and a processor, the processor being configured to run the retrotraverse behavior, the retrotraverse behavior including or in communication with a waypoint routine that maintains a list of time stamped waypoints stored in the memory and separated by at least a minimum difference in time and distance, wherein one of the waypoint routine and the retrotraverse behavior generates a return path interconnecting previously-traversed waypoints in reverse order of timestamps, and wherein the remote vehicle navigates successively to the next previous time-stamped waypoint in the list until a control signal is received from the operator control unit. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory is a doubly-linked, indexed list sorted chronologically by timestamp. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the retrotraverse behavior is implemented automatically when communication with the operator control unit is lost. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein one of the waypoint routine and the retrotraverse behavior maintains a list of previously-performed retrotraverses by recording a list of start time and end time pairs for each retrotraverse period of time. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the retrotraverse behavior excludes waypoints recorded during previously-performed retrotraverses. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the retrotraverse behavior excludes waypoints recorded during previously-performed retrotraverses by excluding waypoints recorded between the start time and end time pairs for each previously-performed retrotraverse. 7. The system of claim 4, wherein the retrotraverse behavior excludes waypoints that were traversed during previously-performed retrotraverses. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the retrotraverse behavior utilizes a lookahead vector to allow smooth navigation along an intended path of travel. 9. The system if claim 8, wherein the retrotraverse behavior only utilizes lookahead vectors that lie within a predetermined distance of each waypoint along the intended path of travel. 10. The system if claim 8, wherein, when utilizing a lookahead vector, the retrotraverse behavior avoids taking shortcuts that bypass waypoints. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein, when utilizing a lookahead vector, the retrotraverse behavior utilizes a radius of interception to determine whether the remote vehicle has reached a waypoint. 12. The system of claim 8 wherein, when utilizing a lookahead vector, the retrotraverse behavior utilizes a perpendicular plane to determine whether the remote vehicle has passed a waypoint. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the retrotraverse behavior navigates the remote vehicle along the return path. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the retrotraverse behavior selects a forward or backward direction for navigating the remote vehicle along the return path based on a determination of which direction requires the least rotation. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the retrotraverse behavior determines the remote vehicle's position using odometry. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the retrotraverse behavior also determines the remote vehicle's position using a global positioning system, ties global positioning system data to odometry data, and uses a Kalman filter to provide confidence in the remote vehicle's position based on the odometry data and the global positioning system data. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the retrotraverse behavior determines the remote vehicle's position by maintaining a global map and placing the remote vehicle's coordinates within the global map. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the retrotraverse behavior maintains a destination point within the global map and adjusts the remote vehicle's heading to navigate the remote vehicle toward the destination point. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the retrotraverse behavior uses one or more of a global positioning system or navigation beacon points to determine the remote vehicle's position. 