An apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles having a mold surface with a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of a molded article. An electromagnetic energy production element produces electromagnetic energy required to cure the binder. The element is selected from electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof. The element is positioned on the mold surface so as to contact the electromagnetic energy-curable binder with the produced electromagnetic energy while the reinforcing fibers are on the mold surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles, comprising: a mold surface having a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of a molded article; an application device for applying a composition comprising an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least partially coat reinforcing fibers; an application device for applying a layer of said reinforcing fibers on said mold surface; an electromagnetic energy production element for producing electromagnetic energy required to cure said binder, wherein: (i) said element is selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof; and (ii) said element is positioned on said mold surface so as to contact said electromagnetic energy-curable binder with said produced electromagnetic energy while said reinforcing fibers are on said mold surface. 2. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 1, wherein said electroluminescent devices are one or more LED's. 3. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 2, wherein said LED's are quantum dots. 4. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the mold surface comprises an electromagnetic energy-transmissive material. 5. An apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles, comprising: a mold surface having a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of a molded article; an electromagnetic energy production element for producing electromagnetic energy configured to cure a binder deposited to at least partially coat said fibers, wherein: (i) said element is selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof; and (ii) said element is positioned on said mold surface so as to contact said electromagnetic energy-curable binder with said produced electromagnetic energy while said reinforcing fibers are on said mold surface. 6. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 5, including an application device for applying a layer of said reinforcing fibers on said mold surface. 7. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 5, including an application device for applying a composition comprising an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least partially coat reinforcing fibers. 8. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 5, wherein said electroluminescent devices are one or more LED's. 9. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 8, wherein said LED's are quantum dots. 10. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 5, wherein at least a portion of the mold surface comprises an electromagnetic energy-transmissive material. 11. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 5, wherein said mold surface is imperforate. 12. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 5, wherein said mold surface is perforate. 13. An apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles, comprising: a mold having a surface with a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of a molded article; an electromagnetic energy production element for producing electromagnetic energy configured to cure a binder deposited to at least partially coat said fibers, wherein: (i) said element is selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof; and (ii) said element is positioned on said mold surface so as to contact said electromagnetic energy-curable binder with said produced electromagnetic energy while said reinforcing fibers are on said mold surface. 14. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 13, wherein said mold has a perforate first mold part and a pressing second mold part. 15. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 14, wherein said element is located on said perforate first mold part. 16. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 13, wherein said electroluminescent devices are one or more LED's. 17. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 16, wherein said LED's are quantum dots. 18. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 13, wherein at least a portion of the mold surface comprises an electromagnetic energy-transmissive material. 19. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 13, wherein said mold surface is imperforate. 20. The apparatus for making fiber-reinforced molded articles according to claim 13, wherein said mold surface is perforate. 