Tactile sensors are disclosed that mimic the human fingertip and its touch receptors. The mechanical components are similar to a fingertip, with a rigid core surrounded by a weakly conductive fluid contained within an elastomeric skin. The deformable properties of the finger pad can be used as part of a transduction process. Multiple electrodes can be mounted on the surface of the rigid core and connected to impedance measuring circuitry within the core. External forces deform the fluid path around the electrodes, resulting in a distributed pattern of impedance changes containing information about those forces and the objects that applied them. Strategies are described for extracting features related to the mechanical inputs and using this information for reflexive grip control. Controlling grip force in a prosthetic having sensory feedback information is described. Pressure transducers can provide sensory feedback by measuring micro-vibrations due to sliding friction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A biomimetic tactile sensor system comprising: a rigid core having a surface; an elastomeric skin surrounding at least a portion of the core and having an inner and outer surface, and configured and arranged to form a space for confining a fluid between the surface of the core and the inner surface; a fluid disposed within the space between the elastomeric skin and the core, wherein the fluid comprises an incompressible fluid; a pressure sensor configured and arranged to detect audio frequency pressure variations in the fluid produced by audio frequency vibrations of the skin; and a processing system configured and arranged to receive an output from the pressure sensor. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the pressure sensor is disposed within the core. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the pressure sensor is in contact with a second fluid that is hydraulically coupled to the first fluid that receives vibrations from the skin. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the first and second fluids are separated temporarily by a soluble keeper. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing is configured and arranged to filter data from the pressure sensor and provide an output indicative of the filtered data. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the elastomeric skin comprises silicone or polyurethane. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the elastomeric skin includes asperities on the inner surface. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the elastomeric skin includes bumps or ridges on the outer surface. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a collar seal configured and arranged to secure the skin to the core. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sealable injection port disposed within the skin and configured and arranged to allow insertion of a needle for filling the space with fluid and sealing after withdrawal of the needle. 11. A biomimetic tactile sensor system comprising: a rigid core having a surface; an elastomeric skin surrounding at least a portion of the core and having an inner and outer surface, and configured and arranged to form a space for confining a fluid between the surface of the core and the inner surface; a fluid disposed within the space between the elastomeric skin and the core, wherein the fluid comprises an incompressible fluid; and a pressure sensor subsystem disposed within the core and configured and arranged to detect audio frequency pressure variations in the fluid produced by audio frequency vibrations of the skin and provide an electrical output indicative of the audio frequency vibrations. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the pressure sensor subsystem comprises a first pressure sensor with a first dynamic range and a second pressure sensor with a second dynamic range, and wherein the second dynamic range is narrower than the first dynamic range and wherein the second pressure sensor is configured and arranged to sense alternating fluctuations in the pressure of the fluid. 13. The system of claim 11, further comprising a processing circuit that is configured and arranged to filter data from the pressure sensor subsystem and provide an output indicative of the filtered data. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the elastomeric skin includes asperities on the inner surface. 15. The system of claim 11, further comprising a collar seal configured and arranged to secure the skin to the core. 16. The system of claim 11, further comprising a sealable injection port disposed within the skin and configured and arranged to allow insertion of a needle for filling the space with fluid and sealing after withdrawal of the needle. 17. The system of claim 11, further comprising a soluble keeper disposed at an inlet to the pressure sensor subsystem. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein the pressure sensor subsystem comprises a single pressure sensor having an inlet for the fluid, wherein inlet forms a first reference channel, separated by a movable member from a second reference channel containing a gas pocket, wherein a small gauge tube having a high fluidic resistance connects the first reference channel to the second reference channel, and wherein the combination of an incompressible fluid path in the inlet channel and a compressible bubble in series with the high fluidic resistance of the small gauge tube forms a mechanical high-pass filter. 19. The system of claim 11, further comprising an amplifier configured and arranged to amplify a signal produced by the pressure sensor subsystem. 20. The system of claim 11, further comprising an analog-to-digital converter for converting an analog signal to a digital signal. 21. A method of sensing vibration of a biomimetic sensor surface, the method comprising: causing relative movement between a biomimetic tactile sensor, having an elastomeric skin, and an object in contact with the elastomeric skin; detecting audio frequency pressure fluctuations that are caused by the relative movement in an incompressible fluid in contact with the elastomeric skin; and matching the detected audio frequency pressure fluctuations to one or more entries in a database of pressure fluctuations corresponding to conditions of the interface between the elastomeric skin and the object. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising producing an electrical signal corresponding to the detected pressure fluctuations. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising using the electrical signal for control of the position of the biomimetic tactile sensor. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising forming a haptic display of the detected pressure fluctuations for a human operator. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein forming a haptic display comprises conveying pressure to the skin of the operator. 26. The method of claim 21, further comprising detecting impedance changes in the fluid by use of a plurality of impedance sensors and utilizing the changes in impedance for control of the position and/or force of the biomimetic tactile sensor. 27. A method of adjusting the grip force of a manipulator, the method comprising: causing relative movement between a biomimetic tactile sensor, having an elastomeric skin, and an object in contact with the elastomeric skin; detecting audio frequency pressure fluctuations that are caused by the relative movement in an incompressible fluid in contact with the elastomeric skin; and adjusting the force between the object and the sensor based on the electrical signal indicative of the audio frequency pressure fluctuations. 28. The method of 27, wherein the pressure fluctuations are used to determine the onset of slip. 29. The method of 28, wherein the grip force is reduced until the onset of slip occurs in order to estimate the coefficient of static friction. 30. The method of 29, wherein the coefficient of static friction is used to compute an adequate grip force according to a safety factor and the estimated coefficient of static friction. 