A method for authenticating an estimated age of an archaeological artifact is described. The method generally includes irradiating the artifact with laser light, measuring a fluorescence spectrum emitted from the artifact and determining whether the artifact's actual age is consistent with the estimated age based on the measured fluorescence.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for authenticating an estimated age of an archaeological artifact, comprising: irradiating the artifact with laser light having an energy density of between about 25 watts per square centimeter and up to 6250 watts per square centimeter; measuring a fluorescence spectrum emitted from the artifact; and determining whether the artifact's actual age is consistent with the estimated age based on the measured fluorescence. 2. The method of authentication of claim 1, further comprising irradiating an etching on the artifact with laser light. 3. The method of authentication of claim 2 wherein the first area comprises a top surface layer of the artifact. 4. The method of authentication of claim 3 wherein the second area comprises a top surface layer of the artifact having been damaged by removal of part of the surface. 5. The method of authentication of claim 4, further comprising removing a portion of the surface of the artifact. 6. The method of authentication of claim 1, further comprising: irradiating the artifact with laser light on a first area; measuring a fluorescence emitted from the first area; irradiating the artifact with laser light on a second area; measuring a fluorescence emitted from the second area; and comparing the fluorescence emitted from the first area with the emitted from the second area; wherein the artifact's age is authenticated if an intensity of the fluorescence measured from the first area is greater than an intensity measured from the second area by a threshold amount. 7. The method of authentication of claim 1, further comprising: irradiating a surface of the artifact with laser light; measuring a fluorescence from the irradiated surface; focusing laser light at a depth below the surface and irradiating a point in the artifact at the depth; measuring a fluorescence from the irradiated point at depth; comparing the measured fluorescence from the irradiated surface with the measured fluorescence from the irradiated point at depth; and determining the authenticity of the age of artifact based on the comparison. 8. The method of authentication of claim 7, wherein determining the authenticity of the artifact based on the comparison comprises determining whether an intensity of the fluorescence measured from the irradiated surface is greater than an intensity measured from the irradiated point at depth by a threshold amount. 9. The method of authentication of claim 7, further comprising using a virtual focus head laser to irradiate the point at depth. 10. The method of authentication of claim 7, further comprising using a full contact head laser to irradiate a surface. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising irradiating a plurality of points on the surface of the artifact and measuring the fluorescence from the plurality of points on the surface. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising using an automated mechanical device to position a laser over the plurality of points to irradiate. 13. The method of authentication of claim 1, further comprising correlating the amount of fluorescence measured with the age of the artifact, wherein the artifact is of human origin. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein correlating the amount of fluorescence measured with the age of the artifact comprises generating a spectrum of the measured fluorescence and comparing to a library of spectra and determining the authenticity of the artifact based on the comparison. 15. A system for debunking a purported age of an artifact, comprising: a laser configured to output light having an energy density of between about 25 watts per square centimeter and up to 6250 watts per square centimeter; a spectrometer configured for measuring fluorescence stimulated by laser light absorption of the artifact; and a computer configured to analyze the fluorescence measured by the spectrometer and determine whether the fluorescence measured meets a threshold amount; wherein the computer is configured to display whether the fluorescence measured meets a threshold amount and wherein the purported age of the artifact is debunked if the measured fluorescence does not meet the threshold amount. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the threshold amount is determined from a library of spectra from laser stimulated material of known approximate age ranges and compositions. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the system further comprises a laser having virtual focus head and a laser having full contact head. 18. A method for debunking a purported age of an artifact, comprising: determining the level of radiation damage in the surface of the artifact; and comparing the level of radiation damage in the surface with the level of radiation damage in a reference material; wherein the purported age of the artifact is debunked if the level of radiation damage in the surface of the artifact falls within a range determined by the reference material. 19. The method for debunking the age of an artifact of claim 18, wherein the reference material comprises a second object having a known age range that encompasses the purported age of the artifact, the method further comprising: comparing the level of radiation damage in the surface of the artifact with the level of radiation damage in the surface of the second object having a known age range that encompasses the purported age of the artifact; and wherein the purported age of the artifact is debunked if the level of radiation damage in the surface of the artifact is less than the damage in the surface of the second object having a known age range that encompasses the purported age of the artifact. 20. The method for debunking the age of an artifact of claim 18, wherein the reference material comprises the artifact itself, the method further comprising: comparing the level of radiation damage in the surface of the artifact with the level of radiation damage in an interior point of the artifact and below the surface of the artifact; and wherein the age of the of the artifact is debunked if the difference in radiation damage between the surface and the interior point is below a threshold amount. 