A surgical robot that includes at least one robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, the robotic arm also including: a magnetic resonance (MR) compatible structural material; multiple MR-compatible joint motors; and multiple MR-compatible joint encoders.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A surgical robot comprising: at least one magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, the robotic arm also including: structural components consisting of MR compatible structural material; multiple MR compatible joint motors; and multiple MR compatible joint encoders, where the at least one robotic arm is configured as a yaw plane manipulator and the multiple joints comprise a first, second and third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints. 2. The surgical robot of claim 1, where the at least one robotic arm also includes: an end effector that includes a first tool holder configured to hold a surgical tool. 3. The surgical robot of claim 2, where the end effector includes a first actuator configured to roll a surgical tool, if held by the first tool holder, about a longitudinal axis. 4. The surgical robot of claim 3, further comprising: a second magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, the second robotic arm also including: structural components consisting of MR compatible structural material; multiple MR compatible joint motors; and multiple MR compatible joint encoders. 5. The surgical robot of claim 4, where the second robotic arm also includes: an end effector that includes a second tool holder configured to hold a surgical tool. 6. The surgical robot of claim 5, where the second robotic arm's end effector includes a second actuator configured to roll a surgical tool, if held by the second tool holder, about a longitudinal axis. 7. The surgical robot of claim 1, further comprising: a moveable support assembly configured to support the at least one robotic arm. 8. The surgical robot of claim 7, where the moveable support assembly comprises a laterally-oriented surface configured to support the at least one robotic arm. 9. The surgical robot of claim 1, where the MR compatible structural material comprises a titanium alloy, a plastic, or a combination thereof. 10. The surgical robot of claim 1, where the multiple MR compatible joint motors are piezoelectric motors. 11. The surgical robot of claim 1, further comprising a MR compatible camera configured to be coupled to the surgical robot and to provide a visual image of an operation site. 12. A surgical robot comprising: at least one magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm having multiple joints and multiple degrees of freedom, the robotic arm also including: structural components consisting of MR compatible structural material; multiple MR compatible joint motors; and multiple MR compatible joint encoders; and an end effector that includes a first tool holder configured to hold a surgical tool, where the at least one robotic arm is configured as a yaw plane manipulator and the multiple joints comprise a first, second and third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints. 13. The surgical robot of claim 12, where the end effector includes a first actuator configured to roll a surgical tool, if held by the first tool holder, about a longitudinal axis. 14. The surgical robot of claim 13, further comprising: a second magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, the second robotic arm also including: structural components consisting of MR compatible structural material; multiple MR compatible joint motors; and multiple MR compatible joint encoders; and an end effector that includes a second tool holder configured to hold a surgical tool. 15. The surgical robot of claim 14, where the second robotic arm's end effector includes a second actuator configured to roll a surgical tool, if held by the second tool holder, about a longitudinal axis. 16. The surgical robot of claim 12, where the MR compatible structural material comprises a titanium alloy, a plastic, or a combination thereof. 17. The surgical robot of claim 12, where the multiple MR compatible joint motors are piezoelectric motors. 18. The surgical robot of claim 12, further comprising a MR compatible camera configured to be coupled to the surgical robot and to provide a visual image of an operation site. 19. A surgical system comprising: a robot for operating on a patient, the robot including: at least one magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, the robotic arm also including: structural components consisting of MR compatible structural material; multiple MR compatible joint motors; and multiple MR compatible joint encoders; and an end effector that includes a first tool holder configured to hold a surgical tool; and a control system configured to: filter input received from an operator to remove hand tremor and scale the movement of the at least one robotic arm relative to the input, where the at least one robotic arm is configured as a yaw plane manipulator and the multiple joints comprise a first, second and third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints. 20. The surgical system of claim 19, where the end effector includes a first actuator configured to roll a surgical tool, if held by the first tool holder, about a longitudinal axis. 21. The surgical system of claim 20, where the robot further comprises: a second magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, the second robotic arm also including: structural components consisting of a MR compatible structural material; multiple MR compatible joint motors; and multiple MR compatible joint encoders; and an end effector that includes a second tool holder configured to hold a surgical tool; and where the control system is configured to: filter input received from an operator to remove hand tremor and scale the movement of the robotic arms relative to the input. 22. The surgical system of claim 21, where the second robotic arm's end effector includes a second actuator configured to roll a surgical tool, if held by the second tool holder, about a longitudinal axis. 23. The surgical system of claim 19, where the MR compatible structural components comprise a titanium alloy, a plastic, or a combination thereof. 24. The surgical system of claim 19, where the multiple MR compatible joint motors are piezoelectric motors. 25. The surgical system of claim 19, further comprising a MR compatible camera configured to be coupled to the surgical robot and to provide a visual image of an operation site. 26. A surgical robot comprising: a moveable support assembly, and at least one magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm configured to be coupled to the moveable support assembly, the at least one robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, and comprising structural components consisting of MR compatible structural material; the at least one robotic arm also including multiple MR compatible motors and multiple MR compatible joint encoders, and the at least one robotic arm sized to fit within the bore of a closed bore MR imaging magnet, where the at least one robotic arm is configured as a yaw plane manipulator and the multiple joints comprise a first, second and third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints. 27. The surgical robot of claim 26, further comprising: a second magnetic resonance (MR) compatible robotic arm configured to be coupled to the moveable support assembly, the second robotic arm having multiple joints and at least six degrees of freedom, and comprising structural components consisting of MR compatible structural material; the second robotic arm also including multiple MR compatible joint motors and multiple MR compatible joint encoders. 28. The surgical robot of claim 26, where the moveable support assembly comprises a laterally-oriented surface and the at least one robotic arm is configured to be coupled to the laterally-oriented surface. 29. The surgical robot of claim 26, where the MR compatible structural material comprises a titanium alloy, a plastic, or a combination thereof. 30. The surgical robot of claim 26, where the multiple MR compatible joint motors are piezoelectric motors. 31. The surgical robot of claim 26, further comprising a MR compatible camera configured to be coupled to the surgical robot and to provide a visual image of an operation site. 