Various embodiments of a biological interface system and related methods are disclosed. The biological interface system may comprise a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals emanating from one or more living cells of a patient, a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor and process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal, and a signal gate configured to receive the processed signal from the processing unit and an alternative signal generated by the system, the signal gate being configured to transmit a control signal to a controlled device based on either the processed signal or the alternative signal. A monitoring unit may receive system data and process the system data to produce a system status signal. The system status signal may be used to determine which of the processed signal and the alternative signal is to be used as the control signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A biological interface system comprising: a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals emanating from one or more living cells of a patient; a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor and process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal; and a signal gate configured to receive the processed signal from the processing unit and an alternative signal generated by the system, the signal gate being configured to transmit a control signal to a controlled device based on either the processed signal or the alternative signal, wherein a monitoring unit receives system data and processes the system data to produce a system status signal, and wherein the system status signal determines which of the processed signal and the alternative signal is to be used as the control signal. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring unit is configured to compare the system data to a predetermined threshold value. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the threshold value is adjustable. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the system is configured to perform an integral permission routine for approving an operator to adjust the threshold prior to an adjustment of the threshold value. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the system is configured to allow an adjustment of the threshold vale to be performed at a location remote from the patient. 6. The system of claim 5, the system is configured to allow the adjustment of the threshold value to be performed via the Internet. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring unit includes an integral safety level parameter used by a mathematical algorithm of the monitoring unit to produce the system status signal. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the integral safety level parameter is adjustable. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the system is configured to allow an adjustment of the integral safety level parameter to be performed at a location remote from the patient. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the system is configured to allow the adjustment to be performed via the Internet. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the system data comprises multiple system configuration parameters. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the monitoring unit is configured to perform a correlation assessment of two or more system configuration parameters, wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when an unacceptable correlation is confirmed. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the multiple system configuration parameters comprise a first system configuration parameter and a second system configuration parameter, wherein the first system configuration parameter comprises the status of the processed signal, and the second system configuration parameter comprises the status of the control signal. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the multicellular signals comprise neural signals. 15. The system of claim 1, further comprising a drug delivery system, wherein the processing unit transmits a signal to the drug delivery system to deliver a therapeutic agent to at least a portion of the patient's body. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the two or more electrical conduits transmit the multicellular signals between at least a portion of the sensor and at least a portion of the processing unit. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the monitoring unit processing includes an assessment of the magnitude of cross-talk between the two or more conduits, wherein the control signal comprises the alternative signal when the cross-talk magnitude is at or above a threshold value. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the monitoring unit is configured to assess an impedance of one or more of the electrical conduits, and wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when impedance is above or below a threshold value. 19. The system of claim 1, further comprising two or more electrical conduits for transmitting the multicellular signals, wherein the system data includes at least a portion of the multicellular signals. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the system data comprises data relating to the processed signal produced by the processing unit. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the monitoring unit is configured to assess the noise level of at least part of the processed signal, and wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when the noise level is at or above a threshold value. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the processed signal controls a parameter of the controlled device selected from the group consisting of: position; velocity; acceleration; torque; force; and any combination thereof. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the system data comprises data regarding a communication error in a communication between one or more components of the system, and wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when the communication error is at or above a threshold value. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the threshold value comprises a type of communication error. 25. The system of claim 23, wherein the threshold value comprises a quantity of communication error. 26. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second sensor for producing at least a portion of the system data. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the second sensor is configured to produce data relating to the environment proximate the patient. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the environment data comprises temperature data. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein the environment data comprises electromagnetic field data. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when the electromagnetic field is at or above a threshold value. 31. The system of claim 26, wherein the second sensor is affixed to a skin of the patient. 32. The system of claim 26, wherein the second sensor is implanted within the patient. 33. The system of claim 26, wherein the second sensor is configured to produce data relating to the patient's physiologic parameter. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the patient parameter comprises one or more of: EKG; respiration; blood glucose; temperature; blood pressure; EEG; perspiration; and any combination thereof. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the system data comprises data relating to the controlled device. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the controlled device comprises a second sensor for producing the data relating to the controlled device. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the data produced by the second sensor comprises at least one of: controlled device orientation; controlled device contact with a surface; controlled device position measurement; controlled device force measurement; controlled device power measurement; controlled device environment measurement; and any combination thereof. 38. The system of claim 35, wherein the data relating to the controlled device comprises one or more of: controlled device failure data; controlled device performance data; and controlled device parameter data. 39. The system of claim 1, further comprising a power supply. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the system data comprises power level data. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to create a time code of specific cellular activity. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein the time code represents neural spike activity. 43. The system of claim 41, wherein an embedded software routine is used in creating the time code. 44. The system of claim 41, wherein creating the time code is an automated routine. 45. The system of claim 41, wherein the system is configured to create a time code of specific neural activity, and wherein the monitoring unit is configured to compare the time code of specific cellular activity and the time code of specific neural activity. 46. The system of claim 45, wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when a comparison indicates a difference in the time codes that is at or above a threshold value. 47. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to check for a computer virus. 48. The system of claim 47, wherein the system data comprises virus status data. 49. The system of claim 48, wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when the virus status data is indicative of a virus infection. 50. The system of claim 48, further comprising a connection to a computer network or the Internet. 51. The system of claim 50, wherein the system is configured to update the virus status data via the computer network or the Internet. 52. The system of claim 1, further comprising a detachable cable and a sensor that produces data indicative of proper attachment of the detachable cable. 53. The system of claim 52, wherein the system data comprises the proper attachment data. 54. The system of claim 52, wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when the attachment data is indicative of the detachable cable not being properly attached. 55. The system of claim 1, further comprising a patient input device. 56. The system of claim 55, wherein the patient input device is selected from the group consisting of: chin joystick; eyebrow EMG switch; EEG activated switch; eye tracker; a head tracker; neck movement switch; shoulder movement switch; sip-n-puff joystick controller; speech recognition switch; tongue switch; and any combination thereof. 57. The system of claim 55, wherein the system data includes data indicative of a status of the input device. 58. The system of claim 57, wherein the control signal uses the alternative signal when the status of the input device is at an unacceptable state. 59. The system of claim 1, wherein the system status signal comprises three or more states. 60. The system of claim 59, wherein the system is configured to generate a second alternative signal. 61. The system of claim 60, wherein the control signal uses the processed signal when the system status signal is at a first state; the control signal uses the alternative signal when the system status signal is at a second state; and the control signal uses the second alternative signal when the system status signal is at a third state. 62. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to generate a second alternative signal. 63. The system of claim 1, wherein the alternative signal comprises a null signal. 64. The system of claim 1, wherein the alternative signal comprises a derivative of the processed signal. 65. The system of claim 1, wherein the alternative signal causes the controlled device to enter into a safe mode. 66. The system of claim 65, wherein the controlled device comprises a prosthetic limb, and the safe mode includes the prosthetic limb moving to a position to protect at least a portion of the patient's body. 67. The system of claim 66, wherein the portion of the patient's body comprises the patient's head. 68. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second controlled device. 69. The system of claim 1, further comprising an embedded ID. 70. The system of claim 69, wherein the embedded ID is configured to check compatibility of one or more discrete components of the system. 71. The system of claim 70, wherein the signal gate further transmits the control signal to the second controlled device. 72. The system of claim 70, wherein a second control signal is transmitted to the second controlled device by the gate. 73. The system of claim 72, wherein the control signal uses the processed signal, and the second control signal uses the alternative signal. 74. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second gate and a second controlled device, wherein the second gate transmits a second control signal to the second controlled device. 75. The system of claim 74, wherein the second control signal uses the processed signal or the alternative signal. 76. The system of claim 74, wherein the system is configured to generate a second alternative signal, wherein the second control signal uses the processed signal or the second alternative signal. 77. The system of claim 1, wherein the signal gate latches when the gate transitions from transmitting the processed signal to transmitting the alternate signal, such that the gate continues to transmit the alternate signal subsequent to a condition that initially caused the alternate signal to be transmitted is reversed. 78. The system of claim 77, wherein the signal gate remains latched until a reset of the system or a portion of the system is performed. 79. The system of claim 1, wherein the signal gate transmits the processed signal to the controlled device when the system data is in a first state as determined by the monitoring unit; wherein the signal gate subsequently transmits the alternate signal to the controlled device when the system data is in a second state as determined by the monitoring unit; and wherein the signal gate again transmits the processed signal to the controlled device when the system data is subsequently again in the first state as determined by the monitoring unit. 80. The system of claim 1, wherein the signal gate transmits the processed signal to the controlled device when the system data is in a first state as determined by the monitoring unit; wherein the signal gate transmits the alternate signal to the controlled device when the system data is subsequently in a second state as determined by the monitoring unit; and wherein the signal gate maintains transmitting the alternate signal to the controlled device when the system data is subsequently in a third state as determined by the monitoring unit. 81. The system of claim 80, wherein the third state is equivalent to the first state. 82. The system of claim 81, wherein the signal gate transmits the processed signal when the system data is in the third state and a reset of the system or a portion of the system is performed. 83. The system of claim 80, wherein the signal gate transmits the processed signal when the system data is in the third state and a reset of the system or a portion of the system is performed. 84. The system of claim 83, wherein the system is configured to perform a system diagnosis and confirm a system acceptability. 85. The system of claim 1, further comprising an alarm assembly. 86. The system of claim 85, wherein the alarm assembly comprises an audible transducer. 87. The system of claim 85, wherein the alarm assembly comprises a dialing device to dial a predetermined phone number and transmit a predetermined message. 88. The system of claim 85, wherein the alarm assembly is activated when the control signal uses the alternative signal. 89. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to reset at least portion of the system. 90. The system of claim 89, wherein the reset is activated from a remote location. 91. The system of claim 89, wherein the reset is activated by the patient. 92. The system of claim 89, wherein activation of the reset invokes a system permission routine. 93. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a neural interface system. 94. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to provide a therapeutic benefit. 95. The system of claim 94, wherein the therapeutic benefit comprises treatment of one or more of: obesity; an eating disorder; a neurological disorder; a stroke; a coma; amnesia; irregular blood flow in the brain; a psychiatric disorder; depression; a cardiovascular disorder; an endocrine disorder; sexual dysfunction; incontinence; a hearing disorder; a visual disorder; a sleeping disorder; a movement disorder; impaired limb function; absence of a limb or a limb portion; a speech disorder; a physical injury; migraine headaches; chronic pain and other severe pain conditions; and any combination thereof. 96. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to perform a patient diagnosis. 97. The system of claim 96, wherein the patient diagnosis comprises one or more of: obesity; an eating disorder; a neurological disorder; a stroke; a coma; amnesia; irregular blood flow in the brain; a psychiatric disorder; depression; a cardiovascular disorder; an endocrine disorder; sexual dysfunction; incontinence; a hearing disorder; a visual disorder; a sleeping disorder; a movement disorder; impaired limb function; absence of a limb or a limb portion; a speech disorder; a physical injury; migraine headaches; chronic pain and other severe pain conditions; and any combination thereof. 98. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to restore a patient function. 99. The system of claim 98, wherein the patient function comprises one or more of: vision; hearing; speech; communication; limb motion; ambulation; reaching; grasping; standing; sitting; rolling over; bowel movement; bladder evacuation; and any combination thereof. 100. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to change states due to a change in state of a monitored biological signal of the patient. 101. The system of claim 100, wherein the change in system state is selected from the group consisting of: system on or off state; calibration routine on or off state; reset routine on or off state; and any combination thereof. 102. The system of claim 100, wherein the monitored biological signal is selected from the group consisting of: eye motion; eyelid motion; facial muscle activation or other electromyographic activity; heart rate; EEG; LFP; respiration; and any combination thereof. 103. The system of claim 100, wherein the monitored biological signal comprises a time code of brain activity. 104. The system of claim 1, further comprising a patient activated input device, wherein the system is configured to change state due to a signal received from the patient activated input device. 105. The system of claim 104, wherein the patient activated input device is selected from the group consisting of: chin joystick; Eyebrow EMG switch; EEG activated switch; eye tracker; head tracker; neck movement switch; shoulder movement switch; sip-n-puff joystick controller; speech recognition switch; tongue switch; and any combination thereof. 106. The system of claim 1, further comprising a light emitter, wherein the multicellular signals are received during and or after activation of the light emitter, and wherein at least one cell providing cellular signals is exposed to the emitted light. 107. The system of claim 106, wherein the light emitter comprises at least one photodiode. 108. The system of claim 106, wherein the sensor includes a photodetector that detects a photo-equivalent of a cellular signal. 109. The system of claim 106, wherein the sensor includes the light emitter. 110. The system of claim 106, wherein the light emitter emits light selected from the group consisting of: visible light; infrared light; ultraviolet light; and any combination thereof. 111. The system of claim 1, wherein the multicellular signals comprises signals emanated from the central nervous system of the patient. 112. The system of claim 1, wherein the multicellular signals comprises signals emanated from two or more cells of the patient. 113. The system of claim 1, wherein the multicellular signals comprise one or more of: neuron spikes, ECOG signals, LFP signals and EEG signals. 114. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the electrodes detect the multicellular signals from clusters of neurons and provide signals including a quantity of neurons between single neuron and EEG recordings. 115. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to utilize least one cellular signal generated under voluntary control of a patient. 116. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient comprises a human being. 117. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient is selected from the group consisting of: a quadriplegic; a paraplegic; an amputee; a spinal cord injury victim; a physically impaired person; and any combination thereof. 118. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient is healthy and/or otherwise is not utilizing the system to provide a therapeutic or restorative function. 119. The system of claim 118, wherein the controlled device comprises a piece of medical equipment. 120. The system of claim 118, wherein the controlled device comprises a communication device. 121. The system of claim 118, wherein the controlled device comprises a piece of equipment with controllable moving parts. 122. The system of claim 121, wherein the equipment is used to evacuate personnel. 123. The system of claim 121, wherein the equipment is used to diffuse a bomb. 124. The system of claim 121, wherein the equipment is used to provide a military defense function. 125. The system of claim 121, wherein the equipment is one or more of: watercraft, aircraft, land vehicle, and reconnaissance robots. 126. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second processed signal for controlling a device. 127. The system of claim 126, further comprising a second controlled device, wherein the second controlled device receives the second processed signal. 128. The system of claim 126, wherein the controlled device receives the second processed signal. 129. The system of claim 126, wherein the second processed signal is based on the multicellular signals. 130. The system of claim 129, wherein the second processed signal is based on the same set of multicellular signals as the processed signal. 131. The system of claim 126, wherein the second processed signal is based on a monitored biological signal of the patient. 132. The system of claim 131, wherein the monitored biological signal is selected from the group consisting of: eye motion; eyelid motion; facial muscle activation or other electromyographic activity; heart rate; EEG; LFP; respiration; and any combination thereof. 133. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes at least one multi-electrode array comprising a plurality of electrodes. 134. The system of claim 133, wherein the array is a ten-by-ten array of electrodes. 135. The system of claim 133, wherein the multi-electrode array comprises at least one of: a recording electrode; a stimulating electrode; and an electrode having recording and stimulating capabilities. 136. The system of claim 133, wherein the sensor further comprises a second multi-electrode array. 137. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes multiple wires or wire bundle electrodes. 138. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes electrodes incorporated into one or more of: a subdural grid; a scalp electrode; a wire electrode; and a cuff electrode. 139. The system of claim 1, wherein the electrodes comprise wires, and the sensor comprises a wire bundle. 140. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes two or more discrete components. 141. The system of claim 140, wherein each of the discrete components includes one or more electrodes. 142. The system of claim 140, wherein each of the discrete components comprises one or more of: a multi-electrode array; a wire or wire bundle; a subdural grid; and a scalp electrode. 143. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor further comprises a signal processing circuitry. 144. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor transmits the multicellular signals through a wireless connection. 145. The system of claim 144, wherein the sensor transmits wirelessly to a receiver mounted on the skull of the patient. 146. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor further comprises a coil for power transmission to the sensor. 147. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of electrodes is capable of recording from clusters of neurons and outputting detected signals comprising multiple neuron signals. 148. The system of claim 147, wherein detected signals are a measure of the LFP response from neural activity. 149. The system of claim 147, wherein the multiple neuron signals comprise one or more of: ECoG signals, LFP signals, EEG signals and peripheral nerve signals. 150. The system of claim 149, wherein the controlled device comprises one or more of: watercraft, aircraft, land vehicle, and reconnaissance robots. 151. The system of claim 1, wherein one or more electrodes are placed into tissue selected from the group consisting of: nerve tissue; organ tissue; tumor tissue; any combination thereof. 152. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit includes one or more of: a temperature sensor; a pressure sensor; a strain gauge; an accelerometer; a volume sensor; an electrode; an array of electrodes; an audio transducer; a mechanical vibrator; a drug delivery device; a magnetic field generator; a photo detector element; a camera or other visualization apparatus; a wireless communication element; a light producing element; an electrical stimulator; a physiologic sensor; a heating element; and a cooling element. 153. The system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the processing unit is physically connected to the sensor. 154. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit comprises an integrated neuron spike sorting function. 155. The system of claim 154, wherein the neuron spike sorting function identifies spikes with a minimum amplitude threshold value. 156. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit comprises an element to amplify the multicellular signals. 157. The system of claim 1, wherein the signals are amplified by a gain of at least eighty. 158. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit utilizes one or more neural net software routines to map neural signals into the processed signals for control of the controlled device. 159. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit assigns one or more cellular signals to a specific use. 160. The system of claim 159, wherein the specific use is determined by the patient attempting an imagined movement or other imagined state. 161. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit utilizes two or more cellular signals that are mathematically combined to create the processed signal. 162. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit utilizes a cellular signal from a neuron whose signal is separated from other nearby neurons detected by a single electrode. 163. The system of claim 162, wherein the processing unit separates signals by neuron spike discrimination methods. 164. The system of claim 163, wherein the spike discrimination methods sort spikes by a minimum amplitude threshold value. 165. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is configured to convert a monitored biological signal of the patient to a digital signal. 166. The system of claim 1, wherein a monitored biological signal of the patient is processed by the processing unit to produce a second processed signal. 167. The system of claim 166, wherein the second processed signal is used to control the controlled device. 168. The system of claim 167, wherein the second processed signal is used to modify one or more system configuration parameters of the system. 169. The system of claim 166, wherein the second processed signal is used to stop control of the controlled device. 170. The system of claim 166, wherein the second processed signal is used to reset the system. 171. The system of claim 1, wherein the controlled device is selected from the group consisting of: a computer; a computer display; a computer mouse; a computer cursor; a joystick; a personal data assistant; a robot or robotic component; a computer controlled device; a teleoperated device; a communication device; a vehicle; a wheelchair; an adjustable bed; an adjustable chair; a remote controlled device; a Functional Electrical Stimulator device; a muscle stimulator; an exoskeletal robot brace; an artificial or prosthetic limb; a vision enhancing device; a vision restoring device; a hearing enhancing device; a hearing restoring device; a movement assist device; a medical therapeutic equipment; a drug delivery apparatus; a medical diagnostic or monitoring equipment; a bladder control device; a bowel control device; a human function enhancement device; a closed loop medical equipment and other controllable devices applicable to patients with some form of paralysis or diminished function; a device that is utilized under direct brain or thought control in either a healthy or unhealthy patient; and any combination thereof. 172. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stimulating device. 173. The system of claim 172, wherein the stimulating device comprises at least an implanted portion. 174. The system of claim 172, wherein the stimulating device comprises a first discrete component and a second discrete component, the first discrete component including at least one electrode and at least one electrical connection to the second discrete component. 175. The system of claim 172, wherein the stimulating device comprises a first discrete component, and the sensor comprises a second discrete component. 176. The system of claim 172, wherein the stimulating device comprises multiple stimulating electrodes. 177. The system of claim 176, wherein the stimulating device transmits stimulating current to one or more electrodes independently. 178. The system of claim 177, wherein the stimulating device comprises a stimulating power device. 179. The system of claim 178, wherein the power device comprises an integral power supply. 180. The system of claim 178, wherein the power device comprises an integral power receiving coil. 181. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to perform a permission routine for approving an operator to modify one or more integrated parameters of the system. 182. The system of claim 181, wherein the permission routine limits parameter modifications to specific operators. 183. The system of claim 182, wherein the permission routine comprises an approved operator list. 184. The system of claim 182, wherein permission to modify individual integrated parameters is linked to specific operators. 185. The system of claim 182, wherein a specific operator is permitted to approve modification of a parameter within a range of values. 186. The system of claim 185, wherein the range of values is controlled by a second operator. 187. The system of claim 181, wherein the permission routine includes multiple levels including permissions for multiple operators. 188. The system of claim 187, wherein a first operator controls a first set of one or more integrated parameters, and a second operator controls a second set of one or more integrated parameters. 189. The system of claim 188, wherein the first set of parameters includes one or more different parameters than the second set of parameters. 190. The system of claim 181, wherein the system is configured to interrogate the system to retrieve data stored therein. 191. The system of claim 181, wherein the system is configured to analyze the retrieved data to produce an output which recommends modifications to be made to at least one of the integrated parameters. 192. The system of claim 181, wherein prior to implementing a modification, the permission routine checks one or more of: username, password, and IP address. 193. The system of claim 181, wherein the permission routine includes a confirmation of modifications prior to implementing a modification. 194. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to perform an adaptive processing routine. 195. The system of claim 194, wherein the adaptive processing routine includes changing over time the type or combination of types of signals processed. 196. The system of claim 195, wherein the types of signals processed include one or more of: EEG signals, ECoG signals, LFP signals, and neural spikes. 197. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to perform a configuration routine for calibrating the multicellular signals. 198. The system of claim 197, wherein the configuration routine is capable of being activated by a biological signal. 199. The system of claim 197, wherein the configuration routine comprises a set of movements for configuration. 200. The system of claim 197, wherein the configuration routine comprises a video monitor. 201. The system of claim 197, wherein the configuration routine comprises a set of movements for configuration, and the video monitor is capable of displaying a selected movement. 202. The system of claim 201, wherein the movements are displayed from the patient's perspective. 203. The system of claim 197, wherein the configuration routine is capable of correlating the selected movement with a cellular signal obtained from tracking the selected movement. 204. The system of claim 197, wherein the configuration routine is capable of correlating an integrated parameter relating to the selected movement with a cellular signal obtained from tracking the selected movement. 205. The system of claim 204, wherein the parameter is one or more of: a position, a velocity, and an acceleration. 206. The system of claim 197, wherein the configuration routine includes a set of movements for configuration and the video monitor is capable of displaying a simulation of a selected movement. 207. The system of claim 206, wherein the simulation of selected movements is displayed from the patient's perspective. 208. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to perform a patient feedback module to supply feedback to the patient. 209. The system of claim 208, wherein the patient feedback module comprises one or more of: an audio transducer, a tactile transducer, a visual transducer, a video display, a gustatory transducer; and an olfactory transducer. 210. The system of claim 208, wherein the patient feedback module comprises a stimulator, and one or more neurons are stimulated to cause movement or sensation in a part of the patient's body. 211. A method of producing a control signal for use in a biological interface system, comprising: detecting multicellular signals emanating from one or more living cells of a patient; processing the detected multicellular signals to produce a processed signal; generating an alternative signal; providing a signal gate configured to receive the processed signal and the alternative signal, the signal gate selectively transmitting either the processed signal or the alternative signal to a controlled device as a control signal; monitoring a status of a biological interface system and producing a system status signal; and determining, based on the system status signal, which of the processed signal and the alternative signal is to be transmitted to the controlled device. 