Various endeffector designs are disclosed for handling semiconductor wafers. For instance, an endeffector for handling wafers at a relatively low temperature is disclosed along with an endeffector for handling wafers at a relatively high temperature. Both endeffectors include uniquely designed support members that are configured to only contact a wafer at the wafer's edge. The endeffectors may also include a wafer detection system. The endeffector for handling wafers at relatively low temperatures may also include a pushing device that is used not only to position a wafer but to hold a wafer on the endeffector during acceleration or deceleration of the endeffector caused by a robot arm attached to the endeffector. As designed, the endeffectors may have a very slim profile making the endeffectors easily maneuverable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An endeffector for handling semiconductor wafers comprising: a base member having a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of support members located on the base member for contacting and supporting a wafer placed on the endeffector, the support members defining a wafer receiving area therebetween; and a plurality of emergency pins located on the base member in a center area located between the proximal end and the distal end of the base member, each of the emergency pins having a height less than a height defined by the support members, the emergency pins being located on the base member so as to prevent a semiconductor wafer supported on the support members from contacting other portions of the base member; wherein the emergency pins have a height and are placed at a location such that the emergency pins only contact a semiconductor wafer held on the support members when the semiconductor wafer is bowing. 2. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the emergency pins have a height less than about 1 mm. 3. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the endeffector includes two emergency pins spaced across from each other in the center area on the base member within the wafer receiving area. 4. An endeffector as defined in claim 3, wherein the base member includes a first tine spaced from a second tine, each of the tines including a terminal end defining the distal end of the base member, and wherein each emergency pin is located on a corresponding tine. 5. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the base member is made from a material comprising a metal. 6. An endeffector as defined in claim 5, wherein the support members and the emergency pins are made from a crystalline material. 7. An endeffector as defined in claim 6, wherein the crystalline material comprises quartz. 8. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the base member is made from a material comprising quartz. 9. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein at least one of the support members defines a sloping surface having a convex and eccentrical shape, the sloping surface being configured only to contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer. 10. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the support members are configured to only contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer. 11. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, further comprising a pushing device located at the proximal end of the base member, the pushing device comprising a retractable piston configured to contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer for positioning the wafer on the base member. 12. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the endeffector has a maximum profile height of less than about 12 mm. 13. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the endeffector has a maximum profile height of less than about 10 mm. 14. An endeffector as defined in claim 11, wherein the piston of the pushing device is in operative association with a pneumatic actuator, the pneumatic actuator being configured to receive a pressurized gas that is used to move the piston from a retracted position to an extended position. 15. An endeffector as defined in claim 14, further comprising a suction device positioned adjacent to the pneumatic actuator, the suction device being configured to create a suction force for capturing any particles that are released during movement of the piston. 16. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, further comprising a wafer detection system comprising a light sending pathway positioned opposite a light receiving pathway across the base member, the light sending pathway being configured to emit a light beam towards the light receiving pathway, and wherein the wafer detection system is configured to detect the presence of a wafer when the light beam is intersected by the wafer. 17. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the support members have an arcuate shape that generally matches a radius of a semiconductor wafer, each support member having a wafer contact surface that tapers from a maximum radius to a minimum radius adjacent the base member, the difference between the maximum radius and the minimum radius being at least about 0.75 mm, the support members only contacting a semiconductor wafer along an edge thereof. 18. An endeffector as defined in claim 17, wherein the support members are made from a material capable of withstanding temperatures of up to at least about 750.degree. C. 19. An endeffector as defined in claim 17, wherein the base member including the support members and the emergency pins are made from a crystalline material. 20. An endeffector as defined in claim 19, wherein the support members and the emergency pins are integral with the base member. 21. An endeffector as defined in claim 20, wherein the quartz is flame polished. 22. An endeffector as defined in claim 19, wherein the crystalline material comprises quartz. 23. An endeffector as defined in claim 17, wherein the wafer contact surfaces of the support members have a convex shape. 24. An endeffector as defined in claim 17, wherein the wafer contact surfaces of the support members have a concave shape. 25. An endeffector as defined in claim 17, wherein the wafer contact surfaces of the support members are chamfered. 