The present invention provides a method, system and apparatus for robotic refueling of satellites. The system may include a dedicated refueling satellite launched directly from either earth, or alternatively it could be launched from another larger mother spacecraft or space station in which the refueling satellite is ferried into space in the case of the larger space craft or it may be stored on the space station until needed from which it can be launched. The system includes a robotic arm, suitable tools which can be affixed to the end effector of the robotic arm required for accessing, opening and closing the fuel fill valve on the satellite being serviced, storage and retrieval stations on a tool caddy on which the tools and various fuel fill valve caps are stored. The system is under teleoperation by a remotely located operator, for example located on earth, in the mother station or in the space station. Cameras are included focussed on the robotic arm and end effector and images are transmitted to the operator to allow the operator to direct and control the refueling procedure. The system may also be configured to be operated autonomously under computer control.
Claims Therefore what is claimed is: 1. A method of transferring fluid from a servicer spacecraft to a client spacecraft, said client spacecraft including a tank and a fluid port coupled to said tank, said fluid port including a fluid valve, said fluid valve including a valve actuation nut for opening and closing said fluid valve, said fluid being selected from the group consisting of fuel and oxidizer, the method comprising: instructing a robotic arm on said servicer spacecraft to perform the steps of: removing an access valve cap on said fluid valve; attaching a fluid line to said fluid valve; and opening said fluid valve by actuating said valve actuation nut, thereby transferring fluid into said tank. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of removing said access valve cap is performed by: affixing a valve tool to a distal end of said robotic arm, affixing an access valve cap removal tool said valve tool, and engaging said access valve cap removal tool to detach said access valve cap. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of attaching said fluid line is performed by clamping said robotic arm to a reaction area on said fluid valve and coupling said fluid line to said fluid valve. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further including the step of cutting a lockwire on said access valve cap; and wherein, prior to said step of opening said fluid valve, the method further including the step of cutting a lockwire on said valve actuation nut. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: removing an outer cap covering said fluid valve. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: cutting a lockwire on an outer cap covering said fluid valve, and removing said outer cap. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: affixing a cap removal tool to a distal end of said robotic arm, and removing an outer cap covering said fluid valve. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: affixing a cap removal tool to a distal end of said robotic arm, removing an outer cap covering said fluid valve, removing said cap removal tool from said distal end, affixing a wire cutter tool to said distal end, cutting a lockwire on said access valve cap, and removing said wire cutter tool from said distal end. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, further including the step of: cutting an access opening in a thermal blanket encasing said fluid valve. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, further including the step of: affixing a blanket cutter tool to a distal end of said robotic arm; cutting an access opening in a thermal blanket encasing said fluid valve; and removing and storing said blanket cutter tool. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein tools may be mounted to a distal end of said robotic arm, and wherein said step of removing said access valve cap, said step of attaching said fluid line, said step of opening said fluid valve, are each performed by one or more tools mounted on said distal end of said robotic arm. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said robotic arm is controlled by a teleoperation system configured for remote operation with a human teleoperator issuing commands via a user interface. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said robotic arm is controlled by a mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system including: a computer controller programmed to operate some or all of the fluid transfer operations, and a teleoperation system configured to have a human teleoperator remotely operate some or all of the fluid transfer operations through a user interface, and wherein said mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system is configured to work in any one of three modes, including a first autonomous mode in which the computer controller controls all fluid transfer operations, a second teleoperation mode in which said human teleoperator remotely operates said robotic arm through said user interface to control all fluid transfer operations, and a third supervised autonomy mode in which said robotic arm is autonomously operated but all autonomous operations are monitored, can be halted and must be approved by a human operator. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of removing said access valve cap is performed by: affixing an access valve cap removal tool to a distal end of said robotic arm, and engaging said access valve cap removal tool to detach said access valve cap. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein subsequent to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: removing and storing said access valve cap removal tool. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein subsequent to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: storing said access valve cap; and removing and storing said access valve cap removal tool. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said step of attaching said fluid line is performed by: affixing a valve tool having said fluid line to said distal end, clamping said valve tool to a reaction area on said fluid valve, and coupling said fluid line to said fluid valve. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein said step of attaching said fluid line is performed by: affixing a valve tool having said fluid line to said distal end, and coupling said fluid line to said fluid valve. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by engaging said valve tool to actuate said valve actuation nut. 20. The method of claim 19, further including the step of: closing said fluid valve by engaging said valve tool to actuate said valve actuation nut. 21. The method of claim 19, further including the step of: clamping said valve tool to a reaction area on said fluid valve, and closing said fluid valve by engaging said valve tool to actuate said valve actuation nut. 22. The method of claim 16, wherein said step of attaching said fluid line is performed by: affixing a valve tool to said distal end of said robotic arm, affixing said fluid line to said valve tool, and coupling said fluid line to said fluid valve. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by engaging said valve tool to actuate said valve actuation nut. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of removing said access valve cap is performed by: affixing a valve tool to a distal end of said robotic arm, clamping said valve tool to a reaction area on said fluid valve, and engaging said valve tool to detach said access valve cap. 25. The method of claim 24, further including the step of: removing and storing said valve tool. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein subsequent to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: storing said access valve cap. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said step of storing said access valve cap is performed by: clamping said robotic arm to a reaction area on a storage post and attaching said access valve cap to said storage post. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said step of attaching said access valve cap is performed by: rotating said access valve cap in a tightening direction. 29. The method of claim 1, further including the step of: closing said fluid valve. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said step of closing said fluid valve is performed by actuating said valve actuation nut. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein said step of closing said fluid valve is performed by: clamping said robotic arm to a reaction area on said fluid valve and actuating said valve actuation nut. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by clamping said robotic arm to a reaction area on said fluid valve and rotating said valve actuation nut in a first direction. 33. The method of claim 32, further including the step of: closing said fluid valve by clamping said robotic arm to said reaction area and rotating said valve actuation nut in a second direction opposite to said first direction. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of removing said access valve cap is performed by clamping said robotic arm to a reaction area on said fluid valve and detaching said access valve cap from said fluid valve. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein said step of detaching said access valve cap is performed by rotating said access valve cap in a loosening direction. 36. The method of claim 1, further including the step of: detaching said fluid line from said fluid valve. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein said step of detaching said fluid line is performed by clamping said robotic arm to a reaction area on said fluid valve and de-coupling said fluid line from said fluid valve. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein, subsequent to said step of detaching said fluid line, the method further includes the step of: replacing said access valve cap onto said fluid valve. 39. The method of claim 1, further including the step of: closing said fluid valve by actuating said valve actuation nut; and detaching said fluid line from said fluid valve. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein said step of closing said fluid valve and said step of detaching said fluid line are each performed while said robotic arm is clamped to a reaction area on said fluid valve. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein said step of removing said access valve cap, said step of attaching said fluid line, said step of opening said fluid valve, said step of closing said fluid valve, and said step of detaching said fluid line, are each performed while said robotic arm is clamped to a reaction area on a storage post. 42. The method of claim 39, wherein tools may be mounted to a distal end of said robotic arm, and wherein said step of removing said access valve cap, said step of attaching said fluid line, said step of opening said fluid valve, said step of closing said fluid valve, and said step of detaching said fluid line, are each performed by one or more tools mounted on said distal end of said robotic arm. 43. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of opening said fluid valve, the method further includes the step of: cutting a lockwire on said valve actuation nut. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein said step of cutting said lockwire is performed by: affixing a wire cutter tool on a distal end of said robotic arm, and engaging said wire cutter tool to cut said lockwire. 45. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of opening said fluid valve, the method further includes the step of: sensing the presence of a lockwire on said valve actuation nut, and if said lockwire is sensed, cutting said lockwire. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein said sensing is performed by transmitting visual images of a region of said client spacecraft to a teleoperator remote from said servicer spacecraft via a user interface. 47. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: cutting a lockwire on said access valve cap. 48. The method of claim 47 wherein, said step of cutting said lockwire is performed by: affixing a wire cutter tool on a distal end of said robotic arm, and engaging said wire cutter tool to cut said lockwire. 49. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: sensing the presence of a lockwire on said access valve cap, and if said lockwire is sensed, cutting said lockwire. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein said sensing is performed by transmitting visual images of a region of said client spacecraft to a teleoperator remote from said servicer spacecraft via a user interface. 51. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: sensing the presence of an outer cap covering said fluid valve, and if said outer cap is sensed, removing said outer cap. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein said sensing is performed by transmitting visual images of a region of said client spacecraft to a teleoperator remote from said servicer spacecraft via a user interface. 53. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the step of: sensing the presence of a lockwire on an outer cap covering said fluid valve, and if said lockwire and said outer cap are sensed, cutting said lockwire and removing said outer cap. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein said sensing is performed by transmitting visual images of a region of said client spacecraft to a teleoperator remote from said servicer spacecraft via a user interface. 55. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, further including the step of: sensing the presence of a thermal blanket encasing said fluid valve, and if said thermal blanket is sensed, cutting an access opening in said thermal blanket. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein said sensing is performed by transmitting visual images of a region of said client spacecraft to a teleoperator remote from said servicer spacecraft via a user interface. 57. The method of claim 1 wherein, subsequent to said step of closing said fluid valve, the method further includes the step of: venting any excess fluid in said fluid line away from said client spacecraft. 58. The method of claim 57 wherein said step of venting said any excess fluid is performed by routing said any excess fluid into a plenum filled substantially with vacuum, pressurizing said plenum with a gas, and opening said plenum to vent away from said client spacecraft. 59. The method of claim 57 wherein said step of venting said any excess fluid is performed by opening a plenum to outer space; routing said any excess fluid into said plenum, pressurizing said plenum with a gas, and opening said plenum to vent away from said client spacecraft. 60. The method of claim 59, wherein said gas is helium. 61. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method further includes the steps of: sensing the presence of a thermal blanket encasing said fluid valve, and if said thermal blanket is sensed, cutting an access opening in said thermal blanket; sensing the presence of an outer cap covering said fluid valve, and if said outer cap is sensed, removing said outer cap; and sensing the presence of a lockwire on said access valve cap, and if said lockwire is sensed, cutting said lockwire. 62. The method of claim 61, wherein said sensing is performed by transmitting visual images of a region of said client spacecraft to a teleoperator remote from said servicer spacecraft via a user interface. 63. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method includes the step of affixing a valve tool to a distal end of said robotic arm; wherein said step of removing said access valve cap is performed by said valve tool; wherein said step of attaching said fluid line to said fluid valve is performed by said valve tool; and wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by said valve tool. 64. The method of claim 63, further including the step of: closing said fluid valve with said valve tool. 65. The method of claim 64, further including the step of: removing and storing said valve tool. 66. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to said step of removing said access valve cap, the method includes the step of affixing a valve tool to a distal end of said robotic arm; wherein said step of attaching said fluid line is performed by: affixing a fluid line coupling to said valve tool; engaging said fluid line coupling connected to said fluid line with said fluid valve; wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by said valve tool. 67. The method of claim 66, wherein said step of removing said access valve cap is performed by: affixing an access valve cap removal tool to said valve tool; removing said access valve cap with said access valve cap removal tool; and removing said access valve cap removal tool from said valve tool. 68. The method of claim 66, wherein said step of removing said access valve cap is performed by: affixing an access valve cap removal tool to said valve tool; removing said access valve cap with said access valve cap removal tool; storing said access valve cap; removing said access valve cap removal tool from said valve tool; wherein the method further includes the steps of: closing said fluid valve; removing said fluid line coupling from said valve tool; affixing said access valve cap removal tool to said valve tool; retrieving the stored said access valve cap with said access valve cap removal tool; and mounting said access valve cap onto said fluid valve. 69. A method of transferring fluid from a servicer spacecraft to a client spacecraft, said client spacecraft including a tank and a fluid port coupled to said tank, said fluid port including a fluid valve, said fluid valve including a valve actuation nut for opening and closing said fluid valve, said fluid being selected from the group consisting of fuel and oxidizer, the method comprising: instructing a robotic arm on said servicer spacecraft to perform the steps of: retrieving an access valve cap removal tool and mounting same to a distal end of said robotic arm; engaging said access valve cap removal tool to remove an access valve cap on said fluid valve; detaching and storing said access valve cap removal tool; retrieving a fluid line coupling and mounting said fluid line coupling to said distal end of said robotic arm; coupling said fluid line coupling to said fluid valve; and opening said fluid valve by actuating said valve actuation nut, thereby transferring fluid into said tank. 70. The method of claim 69, further including the steps of: retrieving and mounting a wire cutter tool to said distal end of said robotic arm; cutting a wire on said valve actuation nut; and detaching and storing said wire cutter tool. 71. The method of claim 69, wherein said robotic arm is controlled by a teleoperation system configured for remote operation with a human teleoperator issuing commands via a user interface. 72. The method of claim 69, wherein said robotic arm is controlled by a mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system including: a computer controller programmed to operate some or all of the fluid transfer operations, and a teleoperation system configured to have a human teleoperator remotely operate some or all of the fluid transfer operations through a user interface, and wherein said mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system is configured to work in any one of three modes, including a first autonomous mode in which the computer controller controls all fluid transfer operations, a second teleoperation mode in which said human teleoperator remotely operates said robotic arm through said user interface to control all fluid transfer operations, and a third supervised autonomy mode in which said robotic arm is autonomously operated but all autonomous operations are monitored, can be halted and must be approved by a human operator. 73. The method of claim 69, wherein a valve tool is mounted on said robotic arm such that said distal end of said robotic arm is an end of said valve tool. 74. The method of claim 73, wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by engaging said valve tool to actuate said valve actuation nut. 75. The method of claim 69, wherein a valve tool is mounted on said robotic arm such that said fluid line coupling is affixed to said valve tool. 76. The method of claim 75, wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by engaging said valve tool to actuate said valve actuation nut. 77. The method of claim 69, wherein a valve tool is mounted on said robotic arm such that said access valve cap removal tool and said fluid line coupling are affixed to said valve tool. 78. The method of claim 77, wherein said step of opening said fluid valve is performed by engaging said valve tool to actuate said valve actuation nut. 79. The method of claim 69, further including the steps of: closing said fluid valve; detaching and storing said fluid line coupling. 80. The method of claim 79, wherein prior to said step of retrieving said access valve cap removal tool, the method further includes the steps of: retrieving and mounting a wire cutter tool to said distal end of said robotic arm; cutting a wire on said access valve cap; and detaching and storing said wire cutter tool. 81. The method of claim 79, wherein prior to said step of retrieving said access valve cap removal tool, the method further includes the steps of: retrieving and mounting a wire cutter tool to said distal end of said robotic arm, cutting a wire on an outer cap covering said fluid valve, and detaching and storing said wire cutter tool; retrieving and mounting an cap removal tool to said distal end of said robotic arm, removing said outer cap, and detaching and storing said cap removal tool. 82. The method of claim 79, wherein prior to said step of retrieving said access valve cap removal tool, the method further includes the steps of: retrieving and mounting a wire cutter tool to said distal end of said robotic arm, cutting a wire on an outer cap covering said fluid valve, and detaching and storing said wire cutter tool; retrieving and mounting a cap removal tool to said distal end of said robotic arm, removing said outer cap, and detaching and storing said cap removal tool; and retrieving and mounting said wire cutter tool to said distal end of said robotic arm, cutting a wire on said access valve cap, and detaching and storing said wire cutter tool. 