Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of C-reactive protein. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding C-reactive protein. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of C-reactive protein expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of C-reactive protein are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inhibiting the expression of C-reactive protein in a cell or tissue comprising contacting said cell or tissue with a compound 12 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein, wherein said compound comprises at least an 8 nucleobase portion complementary to region 1361-1410 of SEQ ID NO: 3; wherein said compound specifically hybridizes with at least an 8-nucleobase portion of said nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein and inhibits the expression of C-reactive protein, so that expression of C-reactive protein is inhibited. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is an oligonucleotide. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, phosphotriester, aminoalkylphosphotriester, alkyl phosphonates, phosphinate, phosphoramidate, thionophosphoramidate, thionoalkylphosphonate, thionoalkylphosphotriester, selenophosphate, boranophosphate, morpholino, siloxane, sulfide, sulfoxide, sulfone, formacetyl, thioformacetyl, methylene formacetyl, riboacetyl, alkene-containing backbone, sulfamate, methyleneimino, methylenehydrazino, sulfonate, sulfonamide, or amide. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein all of the internucleoside linkages of the oligonucleotide are phosphorothioate linkages. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one 2' modified sugar moiety. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the at least one 2' modified sugar moiety is OH, halogen, O-alkyl, S-alkyl, N-alkyl, O-alkenyl, S-alkenyl, N-alkenyl, O-alkynyl, S-alkynyl, N-alkynyl, O-alkyl-O-alkyl, alkaryl, aralkyl, O-alkaryl or O-aralkyl, SH, SCH.sub.3, OCN, CN, CF.sub.3, OCF.sub.3SOCH.sub.3, SO.sub.2CH.sub.3, ONO.sub.2, NO.sub.2, N.sub.3, NH.sub.2, heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkaryl, aminoalkylamino, polyalkylamino, substituted silyl, alkoxyalkoxy, dimethylaminooxyethoxy, allyl, or O-allyl, wherein the alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl can be substituted or unsubstituted C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 alkyl or C.sub.2 to C.sub.10 alkenyl and alkynyl. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the at least one 2' modified sugar moiety is 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) (2'-MOE) sugar moiety. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one modified nucleobase is 5-methylcytosine, 5-hydroxymethyl cytosine, xanthine, hypoxanthine, 2-aminoadenine, 6-alkyladenine, 6-alkylguanine, 2-alkyladenine, 2-alkylguanine, 2-thiouracil, 2-thiothymine, 2-thiocytosine, 5-halouracil, 5-halocytosine, 5-alkynyluracil, 5-alkynylcytosine, 6-azo uracil, 6-azo cytosine, 6-azo thymine, 5-uracil, 4-thiouracil, 8-haloadenine, 8-aminoadenine, 8-thioladenine, 8-thioalkyladenine, 8-hydroxyladenine, 8-haloguanine, 8-aminoguanine, 8-thiolguanine, 8-thioalkylguanine, 8-hydroxylguanine, 5-halo uracil, 5-halo cytosine, 7-methylguanine, 7-methyladenine, 2-F-adenine, 2-amino-adenine, 8-azaguanine, 8azaadenine, 7-deazaguanine, 7-deazaadenine, 3-deazaguanine, 3-deazaadenine, phenoxazine cytidine, phenothiazine cytidine, G-clamp, carbazole cytidine, pyridoindole cytidine, 7-deaza adenine, 7-deaza guanosine, 2-aminopyridine, 2-pyridone, 2-aminopropyladenine, 5-propynyluracil, or 5-propynylcytosine. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the chimeric oligonucleotide is a gapmer. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the gapmer comprises: a 5' wing segment; a 3' wing segment; and a gap segment positioned between said 5' wing segment and said 3' wing segment. 16. The method claim 15, wherein each of said 5' wing segment and 3' wing segment comprise at least one 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar moiety. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the 5' wing segment comprises five nucleobases and a phosphorothioate or phosphodiester internucleoside linkage, the 3' wing segment comprises five nucleobases and a phosphorothioate or phosphodiester internucleoside linkage, and the gap segment comprises ten nucleobases. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is an oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises a gap segment of ten 2'-deoxynucleosides positioned between 5' and 3' wing segments of five 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl)-nucleosides, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3. 