In one aspect, the invention is directed to polypeptides having an amylase activity, polynucleotides encoding the polypeptides, and methods for making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the polypeptides of the invention can be used as amylases, for example, alpha amylases, to catalyze the hydrolysis of starch into sugars.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 90% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2, or an enzymatically active fragment thereof, wherein the polypeptide has an alpha-amylase activity and is cable of generating a homogenous molecular weight (MW) profile of oligosaccharides centered at 1000-2000 MW with less than 10% of the mass greater than 25,000 MW during starch liquefaction. 2. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity is 95% sequence identity. 3. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 2, wherein the polypeptide is encoded by SEQ ID NO:1 or an enzymatically active fragment thereof. 4. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the amylase is used in starch processing. 5. A composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 6. The composition of claim 5, wherein the composition is a detergent, a detergent additive, a food, a food supplement, a feed supplement, or a feed. 7. A method of hydrolyzing a polysaccharide or oligosaccharide linkage comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a substance containing the polysaccharide or oligosaccharide with the polypeptide of claim 1, under conditions which facilitate the hydrolysis of the polysaccharide or oligosaccharide linkage. 8. A method for making a food or a feed comprising contacting a food, a feed or an oligosaccharide or polysaccharide comprising composition with the polypeptide of claim 1. 9. A method of producing a sugar comprising contacting a composition comprising an oligosaccharide or polysaccharide with the polypeptide of claim 1. 10. A method for pulp, paper or fiber processing comprising (a) contacting a pulp, a paper, a recycled paper or a fiber with the polypeptide of claim 1, or (b) the method of (a), wherein the process is for deinking of the pulp, paper, recycled paper, or fiber. 11. A method for drilling comprising contacting a drilling or a production fluid with the polypeptide of claim 1. 12. A method for washing an object comprising (i) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (ii) contacting said object with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions sufficient for said washing. 13. A method for textile desizing comprising (i) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (ii) contacting a textile with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions effective for said desizing. 14. A method for treatment of lignocellulosic fibers comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting the lignocellulosic fibers with the polypeptide of claim 1, under conditions effective for hydrolyzing the lignocellulosic fibers, thereby modifying a property of the lignocellulosic fiber. 15. A method for producing a high-maltose, a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) liquefying a polysaccharide or oligosaccharide using an effective amount of a polypeptide of claim 1 to obtain a soluble polysaccharide or oligosaccharide hydrolysate; and saccharifying the soluble polysaccharide or oligosaccharide hydrolysate, thereby producing a high-maltose, a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup. 16. A method for making ethanol comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, (b) contacting a polysaccharide-comprising or oligosaccharide-comprising composition with the polypeptide of claim 1, to produce a sugar, and (c) fermenting the sugar of (b) to produce ethanol. 17. A method for corn wet milling comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a corn or a corn starch with the polypeptide of (a) under conditions sufficient for the polypeptide to hydrolyze an oligosaccharide or a polysaccharide in the corn or corn starch. 18. A method for dry milling comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a whole ground grain with the polypeptide of (a), under conditions sufficient for the polypeptide to hydrolyze an oligosaccharide or a polysaccharide in the whole ground grain. 19. A method for starch processing comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a starch with the polypeptide of (a), under conditions sufficient for the polypeptide to hydrolyze the starch. 20. A method for preparing or treating a dough, or a baked product prepared from the dough, comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) adding the polypeptide to the dough, bread, or baked product in an amount which is effective to prepare or treat the bread, bread, or baked product. 21. The method of any one of claims 7 to 20, wherein the polypeptide further comprises a second polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, a beta amylase activity, or another enzyme. 