The invention relates to alpha amylases and to polynucleotides and polypeptides encoding the alpha amylases. In addition, methods of using the alpha amylases are also provided. The alpha amylases have increased activity and stability at acidic, neutral and alkaline pH and at increased temperatures.
Claims We claim: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising: (a) an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:102, wherein the polypeptide has alpha-amylase activity. 2. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha amylase activity comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:102, or encoded by the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:101. 3. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, comprising at least one glycosylation site or wherein the polypeptide is glycosylated. 4. A composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 5. The composition of claim 4, wherein the composition is a detergent, a detergent additive, a food, a food supplement, a feed supplement, or a feed. 6. The isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 102 is at least 97%. 7. A method of hydrolyzing starch comprising contacting a substance containing starch with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions which facilitate the hydrolysis of the starch in the substance by the polypeptide. 8. A method for washing an object comprising contacting said object with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions sufficient for said washing. 9. A method for textile desizing, comprising contacting a textile with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions effective for desizing. 10. A method for producing a high-maltose, a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup comprising liquefying starch using an effective amount of the polypeptide of claim 1 to obtain a soluble starch hydrolysate; and saccharifying the soluble starch hydrolysate, thereby producing the high-maltose, the high-glucose syrup or the mixed syrup. 11. A method for making ethanol comprising contacting a starch-comprising composition with the polypeptide of claim 1 to produce a sugar, and fermenting the sugar to produce ethanol. 12. A method for corn wet milling comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting corn or a corn starch with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions sufficient for the polypeptide to hydrolyze the starch. 13. A method for dry milling comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a whole ground grain comprising starch with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions sufficient for the polypeptide to hydrolyze the starch. 14. A method for liquefying or removing starch from a composition comprising contacting a composition comprising starch with the polypeptide of claim 1, under conditions wherein the polypeptide liquefies the composition or removes the starch from the composition. 15. The method of any one of claims 7-9, 10-13 and 14, wherein the method further comprises addition of a second polypeptide, wherein the second polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of an alpha amylase, a beta amylase, an enzyme, and a combination thereof. 16. The method of any one of claims 7, 8, 11, 13 and 14 wherein the starch is comprised in or derived from rice, germinated rice, corn, barley, wheat, legume, sweet potato, milo, sorghum, rye, bulger or a combination thereof. 