A consumable is configured to operate in a robotic welding torch. The robotic welding torch includes a torch body and a tube. The tube has an elongated body extending from a supply end to a discharge end. The tube is operably connected substantially at the supply end to the torch body. The tube is configured to operably connect at the discharge end to a first set of consumables in a first configuration and to a second set of consumables in a second configuration. The first set of consumables has a first amperage capacity and the second set of consumables has a second amperage capacity substantially larger than the first amperage capacity. The tool center point of the robotic welding torch is substantially constant between the first configuration and the second configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic welding torch configured to operate with consumables of substantially different amperage ratings, the robotic welding torch comprising: a torch body; a tube having an elongated body extending from a supply end to a discharge end, where the tube is operably connected substantially at the supply end to the torch body; where the robotic welding torch is configured to operate in at least two configurations including: a first configuration having a first set of consumables rated to operate at a first amperage and configured to be operably connected to the tube substantially at the discharge end, where the first set of consumables comprises: a first diffuser having a first diffuser geometry, and a first contact tip having a first contact tip geometry, where the first contact tip has a first opening configured to guide electrode wire through, and a second configuration having a second set of consumables rated to operate at a second amperage substantially larger than the first amperage and configured to be operably connected to the tube substantially at the discharge end, where the second set of consumables comprises: a second diffuser having a second diffuser geometry different from the first diffuser geometry, and a second contact tip having a second contact tip geometry different from the first contact tip geometry, where the second contact tip has a second opening configured to guide the electrode wire through; and where the robotic welding torch has a tool center point corresponding to an end of the electrode wire, and where the tool center point of the first configuration is substantially the same as the tool center point of the second configuration. 2. The robotic welding torch of claim 1, where the elongated body of the tube has at least one bend forming a gooseneck. 3. The robotic welding torch of claim 1, where the first amperage is 350 amps and the second amperage is 550 amps. 4. The robotic welding torch of claim 1, where the first amperage is 250 amps and the second amperage is 450 amps. 5. The robotic welding torch of claim 1, where the first amperage is 250/350 amps and the second amperage is 450/550 amps. 6. The robotic welding torch of claim 1, further comprising: means for mounting the robotic welding torch to a welding robot. 7. The robotic welding torch of claim 1: where the first set of consumables further comprises a first insulator having a first insulator geometry, and where the second set of consumables further comprises a second insulator having a second insulator geometry different from the first insulator geometry. 8. The robotic welding torch of claim 1: where the first set of consumables further comprises a first nozzle having a first nozzle geometry, and where the second set of consumables further comprises a second nozzle having a second nozzle geometry different from the first nozzle geometry. 9. A plurality of consumables, each consumable configured to operate in a robotic welding torch comprising a torch body and a gooseneck having an elongated body extending from a supply end to a discharge end, where the gooseneck is operably connected substantially at the supply end to the torch body, the plurality of consumables comprising: a first set of consumables having a first geometry and a first amperage capacity and configured to operably connect to the gooseneck and define a first tool center point; and a second set of consumables having a second geometry substantially different from the first geometry, and a second amperage capacity substantially larger than the first amperage capacity and configured to operably connect to the gooseneck and define a second tool center point substantially the same as the first tool center point. 10. The plurality of consumables of claim 9, where the first set of consumables comprises: a first insulator having a first insulator geometry, a first diffuser having a first diffuser geometry, and a first contact tip having a first contact tip geometry, where the first contact tip has a first opening configured to guide electrode wire through, and where the second set of consumables comprises: a second insulator having a second insulator geometry different from the first insulator geometry, a second diffuser having a second diffuser geometry different from the first diffuser geometry, and a second contact tip having a second contact tip geometry different from the first contact tip geometry, where the second contact tip has a second opening configured to guide the electrode wire through; and where the first tool center point and the second tool center point correspond to an end of a portion of the electrode wire protruding through one of the first opening and the second opening. 11. The plurality of consumables of claim 9, where of the plurality of consumables includes at least one of: an insulator; a diffuser; a contact tip; and a nozzle. 12. The plurality of consumables of claim 9, where the first amperage capacity is 350 amps and the second amperage capacity is 550 amps. 13. The plurality of consumables of claim 9, where the first amperage capacity is 250 amps and the second amperage capacity is 450 amps. 14. The plurality of consumables of claim 9, where the first amperage capacity is 250/350 amps and the second amperage capacity is 450/550 amps. 15. A consumable configured to operate in a robotic welding torch, the consumable comprising: a body; where the consumable is part of a set of consumables, where the set of consumables is one of a first set of consumables and a second set of consumables, where the first set of consumables has a first geometry and a first current conducting capacity, where the second set of consumables has a second geometry substantially different from the first geometry, and a second current conducting capacity substantially different from the first current conducting capacity, where the set of consumables includes at least one of: an insulator, a diffuser, a contact tip, and a nozzle, and where the robotic welding torch equipped with the first set of consumables and the robotic welding torch equipped with the second set of consumables have a common tool center point. 16. The consumable of claim 15, where the first set of consumables has a current conducting capacity of 350 amps and the second set of consumables has a current conducting capacity of 550 amps. 17. The consumable of claim 15, where the first set of consumables has a current conducting capacity of 250 amps and the second set of consumables has a current conducting capacity of 450 amps. 18. The consumable of claim 15, where the consumable has a current conducting capacity of 250 amps. 19. The consumable of claim 15, where the consumable has current conducting capacity of 550 amps. 20. The consumable of claim 15, where the consumable is one of: the insulator; the diffuser; the contact tip; and the nozzle. 