Systems and methods for performing one or more measurements of a substrate at one or more radii along the substrate are described. Thickness measurements taken at various radii along the substrate can be averaged together to obtain an average value that reflects an overall substrate thickness. A more accurate measurement of the overall substrate thickness can be obtained by performing multiple measurements and averaging the measurements together. Using the average value, polishing can be adjusted to ensure that the substrate achieves a desired planarized thickness profile.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: a polishing apparatus having one or more polishing stations for polishing of a substrate, the polishing stations operating with a plurality of polishing parameters; an in-line monitoring system including a substrate holder to hold the substrate at a location outside the polishing stations, a housing having an opening for receiving the substrate, and an eddy current sensor outside the polishing stations and near the opening to generate a signal based on a thickness of a layer of the substrate, wherein the sensor and the substrate holder are configured to undergo relative motion; and a controller configured to cause the substrate holder to insert the substrate into the opening in the housing and to cause the sensor and substrate to undergo relative motion such that the sensor traverses a path including three or more angularly separated positions adjacent an edge of the substrate, the sensor configured to generate measurements at the three or more angularly separated positions, and the controller configured to receive the signal from the sensor and control at least one of the plurality of polishing parameters in response to the measurements. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is stationary and the substrate holder is movable. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the polishing apparatus comprises a carrier head and substrate holder comprises a robot other than the carrier head. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a substrate support outside the polishing station to hold the substrate at a location away from the polishing stations and the sensor. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the substrate holder is operable to transfer the substrate from the substrate support to the sensor. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system includes a substrate edge detector. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the monitoring system is configured to detect a first edge of the substrate and a second edge of the substrate as the substrate holder scans the sensor across the substrate. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the substrate holder is located in the polishing apparatus. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system includes a vertical position sensor to determine a vertical position of the substrate; and wherein the substrate holder is configured to adjust the vertical position based on a signal from the vertical position sensor to prevent the substrate from contacting the sensor. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the monitoring system includes a horizontal position sensor to track a lateral location of the substrate. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the substrate holder is configured to adjust the lateral location based on a signal from the horizontal position sensor to prevent the substrate from contacting an inner wall of the opening. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the monitoring system includes a plurality of horizontal position sensors spaced at fixed predetermined locations within the opening to track the lateral location of the substrate. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to average measurements from each of a plurality of radial zones to generate an averaged measurement for each radial zone. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the path comprises a plurality of linear segments. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of linear segments comprise three or more angularly separated radial segments of the substrate. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the three or more angularly separated radial segments are evenly angularly spaced apart. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the sensor is configured to generate measurements at a plurality of positions along each of the three or more angularly separated radial segments. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the controller is configured to average the measurements for each of the radial segments to generate an averaged measurement for each of the radial segments and to control the polishing parameter based on the averaged measurement. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of linear segments comprise between six and twenty angularly separated radial segments of the substrate. 20. A system, comprising: a polishing apparatus having one or more polishing stations for polishing of a substrate, the polishing stations operating with a plurality of polishing parameters; a monitoring system including a substrate holder to hold the substrate at a location away from the polishing stations, a sensor to generate a signal based on a thickness of a layer of the substrate, and an opening for receiving the substrate, wherein the sensor is positioned near the opening, wherein the sensor and the substrate holder are configured to undergo relative motion, and wherein the monitoring system is configured to detect a first edge of the substrate and a second edge of the substrate as the substrate holder scans the sensor across the substrate; and a controller configured to cause the sensor and substrate to undergo relative motion such that the sensor traverses a path, the sensor configured to generate measurements at three or more separated positions along the path, the controller configured to receive the signal from the sensor and control at least one of the plurality of polishing parameters in response to the measurements, and the controller is configured to cause the substrate holder to remove the substrate from the opening upon detection of the second substrate edge. 21. A system, comprising: a polishing apparatus having one or more polishing stations for polishing of a substrate, the polishing stations operating with a plurality of polishing parameters; a monitoring system including a substrate holder to hold the substrate at a location outside the polishing stations, and a sensor outside the polishing stations to generate a signal based on a thickness of a layer of the substrate, wherein the sensor and the substrate holder are configured to undergo relative motion, and wherein the monitoring system is configured to detect a first edge of the substrate and a second edge of the substrate as the substrate holder scans the sensor across the substrate; and a controller configured to cause the sensor and substrate to undergo relative motion such that the sensor traverses a path, the sensor configured to generate measurements at three or more separated positions along the path, the controller configured to receive the signal from the sensor and control at least one of the plurality of polishing parameters in response to the measurements, and the controller configured to cause the substrate holder to rotate the substrate by an angle .alpha. upon detection of the second substrate edge. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the angle .alpha. equals 360/N, where N is an integer greater than 2. 23. A method comprising: holding a substrate on a substrate holder; inserting the substrate into an opening of a housing of an in-line monitoring system; scanning an eddy-current sensor positioned near the opening across the substrate in the in-line monitoring system, the scanning including causing the sensor to traverse a path including three or more angularly separated discrete points adjacent an edge of the substrate; generating a measurement signal associated with a thickness of the substrate at each of the three or more angularly separated discrete points from the sensor in the in-line monitoring system; and controlling a polishing parameter of a polishing apparatus based on the measurement signal. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein scanning the substrate includes moving the sensor along three or more angularly separated radial segments of the substrate, and generating a measurement signal includes measuring the substrate at one or more positions on each of the three or more angularly separated radial segments. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: detecting a first substrate edge and a second substrate edge of the substrate, the second substrate edge being farther away from the sensor than the first substrate edge when the first substrate edge is detected. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising: generating measurement signals associated with thicknesses of the substrate at a plurality of discrete points on each of the three or more angularly separated radial segments; averaging the measurement signals generated for each of the radial segments to produce an averaged signal for each of the radial segments; and controlling the polishing parameter based on the averaged signal. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein scanning the substrate includes moving the sensor along between six and twenty angularly separated radial segments of the substrate. 28. The method of claim 24, wherein the radial segments are evenly angularly spaced around the substrate. 29. The method of claim 23, further comprising averaging measurements from each of a plurality of radial zones to generate an averaged measurement for each radial zone. 30. A method comprising: scanning a sensor across a substrate in a monitoring system to position the sensor at three or more angularly separated discrete points adjacent an edge of the substrate; generating a measurement signal associated with a thickness of the substrate at each of the three or more angularly separated discrete points; detecting a first substrate edge and a second substrate edge of the substrate, the second substrate edge being farther away from the sensor than the first substrate edge when the first substrate edge is detected; rotating the substrate from a first radial segment to a second radial segment after detecting the second substrate edge; and controlling a polishing parameter of a polishing apparatus based on the measurement signal. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein rotating the substrate from the first radial segment to the second radial segment is performed without removing the substrate from an opening of the sensor. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein rotating the substrate includes removing the substrate from an opening of the sensor, rotating the substrate after removing the substrate, and returning the substrate to the opening. 33. The method of claim 30, wherein rotating the substrate includes rotating the substrate by an angle of 360/N degrees, where N is an integer greater than 2. 