A heart monitoring system for a person includes one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless network; a wearable sensor having a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; and a software module receiving data from the wireless nodes to detect changes in patient vital signs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heart monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless network; a wearable sensor on a patch or bandage secured to the person's skin and coupled to a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; and a software module receiving data from the wireless nodes to detect changes in patient vital signs. 2. The system of claim 1, comprising an accelerometer to detect a dangerous condition and to generate a warning when the dangerous condition is detected. 3. The system of claim 1, comprising a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver to communicate audio through the network. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising one of: EEG detector, EKG detector, ECG detector, electromagnetic detector, ultrasonic detector, optical detector. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor monitors patient movement. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more wireless appliances to provide location information by triangulating signals from the wireless nodes in a building. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the wireless network and to the POTS to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor monitors blood pressure. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor monitors EEG to identify a seizure. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor monitors calorie input. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor determines one of: total body water, compartmentalization of body fluids, cardiac monitoring, blood flow, skinfold thickness, dehydration, blood loss, wound monitoring, ulcer detection, deep vein thrombosis, hypovolemia, hemorrhage, blood loss. 13. The system of claim 1, comprising a patch having a bioelectric impedance (BI) sensor in communication with the wireless transceiver. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the transceiver transmits and receives voice from the person over a mesh network to one of: a doctor, a nurse, a medical assistant, a caregiver, an emergency response unit, a family member. 15. The system of claim 1, comprising a continuous blood pressure monitoring unit having to a blood flow velocity sensor coupled to a blood pressure model to continuously estimate blood pressure. 16. The system of claim 1, comprising a screen mounted on the person's wrist showing data displayed in a graphical format with trends and recommended values. 17. The system of claim 1, comprising a screen mounted on the person's wrist showing EKG, respiratory, or pulse oximeter plethysmogram data displayed in a graphical format with trends and recommended values. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the wireless network comprises an 802 network coupled to a hospital computer with electronic medical record (EMR) and remote alarm. 19. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient activity and posture. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the patient information includes medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the posture code comprises code to detect patient skeleton structure, stride and frequency. 22. The system of claim 1, comprising a patch having one or more sensors in communication with the wireless network. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor monitors glucose level. 24. A monitoring system, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless network; a wearable blood pressure sensor on a patch or bandage secured to the person's skin and coupled a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; and a software module receiving data from the wireless nodes to detect deteriorations in patient vital signs. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the sensor captures vital signs including blood pressure without frequent cuff inflation, and wherein the wireless network communicates the vital signs to one or more authorized employees throughout a hospital. 