A mobile sanitizer movable across a surface to sanitize the surface. The sanitizer may comprise an ultraviolet light source that illuminates the surface and a microprocessor control. The control may adjust the light source intensity in response to a speed of the movement of the light source relative to the surface. And, for instance, the control may drive a display indicating how movement of the device relates to sanitization settings input by a user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mobile sanitizer movable across a surface to sanitize the surface comprising an ultraviolet light source that illuminates the surface and a microprocessor control operably controlling a display that indicates to a user when a sanitization process is being successfully executed; wherein the control provides for an intensity of the light source to decrease in response to a decrease of the speed and also provides for the light intensity to increase in response to an increase of a speed of movement of the light source; or wherein the control changes an intensity of the light source in response to a change in a condition at the surface. 2. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the control further provides for an intensity of the light source to decrease in response to an decrease of a speed of movement of the light source. 3. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the control further provides for an intensity of the light source to increase in response to an increase of a speed of movement of the light source. 4. The sanitizer of claim 3 comprising a sensor that detects a speed of movement of the light source and provides data on the speed to the controller to adjust an intensity of the light source. 5. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the control adjusts an intensity of the light source in response to a speed of movement of the light source to provide a predetermined dose of the light to the surface. 6. The sanitizer of claim 5 wherein the control provides a normal maximum intensity and further provides a burst intensity that is greater than the normal maximum intensity, with the burst intensity being limited to a predetermined duration of time. 7. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein a user-input control provides an adjustment of an intensity of the light source. 8. The sanitizer of claim 7 wherein the user-input control provides for an input chosen from the group consisting of a hard surface, a carpeted surface, a mattress surface, a fabric, a drape, and an upholstered surface. 9. The sanitizer of claim 7 wherein the user-input control provides for an input chosen from the group consisting of: sanitization for viruses; sanitization for a bacteria; sanitization for a pest; and sanitization for molds and/or fungi. 10. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the control limits a maximum intensity of the light source to a predetermined maximum value and provides a non-zero minimum intensity while the sanitizer is moving. 11. The sanitizer of claim 10 further comprising a user control to turn off the light source. 12. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the control further increases or decreases an intensity of the light source in response to a change in a condition at the surface. 13. The sanitizer of claim 12 wherein the condition is chosen from the group consisting of hardness and roughness. 14. The sanitizer of claim 12 further comprising a surface detector that detects a condition of the surface. 15. The sanitizer of claim 14 wherein the surface detector is chosen from the group consisting of a photodetector, acoustic detector, capacitance detector, and resistance detector. 16. The sanitizer of claim 14 wherein a condition of the surface is chosen from the group consisting of carpet, deep carpet, hard, smooth, rough, fabric, upholstery, and drape. 17. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the ultraviolet light source is an ultraviolet C light source. 18. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the display indicates a target speed and the speed of movement. 19. The sanitizer of claim 18 wherein the display indicates an intensity of the light source. 20. The sanitizer of claim 1 wherein the display indicates when the light source is providing a burst of increased intensity. 21. A process of making a mobile sanitizer for sanitization of a surface by an ultraviolet light source comprising preparing a microprocessor control to (i) adjust the intensity of the light source as the light source is moved and in response to a speed of the movement of the light source relative to the surface and/or (ii) control a display to indicate to a user a indicating a target speed and a speed of movement of the light source relative to the surface. 22. The process of claim 21 wherein the sterilizer further comprises a display indicating when a sanitization process is being successfully executed. 23. The process of claim 21 wherein the control provides for the light intensity to decrease in response to a decrease of the speed and also provides for the light intensity to increase in response to an increase of the speed. 24. A method of sanitizing a surface with a mobile sanitizer that directs light from an ultraviolet light source onto the surface, the method comprising: selecting a plurality of settings to achieve a light dosage goal, moving the sanitization device across the surface; wherein the sanitizer automatically adjusts an intensity of the light source in response to a speed of the movement of the light source relative to the surface; or wherein the sanitizer further increases or decreases an intensity of the light source in response to a change in a condition at the surface. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising adjusting a speed of the movement in response to a display indicating that the speed requires an adjustment to meet the goal. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein the device automatically adjusts an intensity of the light source in response to a speed of the movement of the light source relative to the surface. 27. A mobile sanitizer movable across a surface to sanitize the surface comprising an ultraviolet light source that illuminates the surface and a microprocessor control operably controlling a display that indicates to a user when a sanitization process is being successfully executed; wherein the control automatically adjusts an intensity of the light source in response to a speed of the movement of the light source relative to the surface; or wherein the control changes an intensity of the light source in response to a change in a condition at the surface. 28. A mobile sanitizer movable across a surface to sanitize the surface comprising an ultraviolet light source that illuminates the surface and a microprocessor control operably controlling the light source intensity to adjust the intensity of the light source as the light source is moved and in response to a speed of the movement of the light source relative to the surface. 