The disclosure describes a novel approach of utilizing a collection bin for a front loading waste collection vehicle. The collection bin includes a weighing system with a processor for measuring the weights of material collected from each waste container and associating this weight with appropriate data, such as the owner of the waste container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A collection bin comprising: at least one pocket for receiving at least one fork of a fork assembly of a front loading waste collection vehicle; a processor, and a weighing instrument controlled by the processor, the weighing instrument is adapted to weigh material disposed in the collection bin to produce weight measurements, wherein the processor associates the weight measurements with appropriate data; and an automated robotic arm attached to the collection bin, the automated robotic arm is adapted to empty material contained in a waste container into the collection bin. 2. A collection bin comprising: at least one pocket for receiving at least one fork of a fork assembly of a front loading waste collection vehicle; a processor, a weighing instrument controlled by the processor, the weighing instrument is adapted to weigh material disposed in the collection bin to produce weight measurements, wherein the processor associates the weight measurements with appropriate data; and a frame, the frame comprising the at least one pocket; and a tub, the tub held by the frame, wherein the weighing instrument is at least one load cell, the at least one load cell attached to the frame underneath the tub. 3. The collection bin of claim 2, wherein the weighing instrument provides for an accuracy of at least one of within about 5 pounds or less. 4. The collection bin of claim 2, further comprising: an RFID system controlled by the processor and adapted to at least identify waste containers; and a GPS system controlled by the processor and adapted to determine a location of at least one of the collection bin and waste containers. 5. The collection bin of claim 2, wherein the appropriate data includes at least one of a time a waste container is emptied into the collection bin, a date a waste container is emptied into the collection bin, a location of a waste container, a location of a waste container when emptied into the collection bin, an owner of a waste container, owner information for a waste container, waste container size, and previously taken weight measurements. 6. The collection bin of claim 2, wherein the weighing instrument is self-contained. 7. The collection bin of claim 2, further comprising at least one sensor in communication with the processor, the at least one sensor is adapted to determine at least one of movement or weight change. 8. The collection bin of claim 2, further comprising a GPRS system controlled by the processor. 9. The collection bin of claim 2, further comprising a GSM antenna controlled by the processor and a SIM card. 10. The collection bin of claim 2, further comprising a display controlled by the processor and an input device. 11. The collection bin of claim 2, further comprising a communication connection connected to the processor. 12. The collection bin of claim 2, wherein the processor further comprises a weight determination and association application controlled by the processor. 13. A collection and scale system, comprising: a front loading waste collection vehicle; and a collection bin, the collection bin comprising at least one pocket for receiving at least one fork of a fork assembly of the front loading waste collection vehicle, and a weighing system, the weighing system is adapted to weigh material disposed in the collection bin to produce weight measurements and comprises at least one weighing instrument, and a processor, wherein the processor associates the weight measurements with appropriate data, wherein the weighing instrument is attached to the collection bin. 14. A collection and scale system, comprising: a front loading waste collection vehicle; and a collection bin, the collection bin comprising at least one pocket for receiving at least one fork of a fork assembly of the front loading waste collection vehicle, and a weighing system, the weighing system is adapted to weigh material disposed in the collection bin to produce weight measurements and comprises at least one weighing instrument, and a processor, wherein the processor associates the weight measurements with appropriate data, wherein the weighing system is self-contained on the collection bin. 15. A collection and scale system, comprising: a front loading waste collection vehicle; and a collection bin, the collection bin comprising at least one pocket for receiving at least one fork of a fork assembly of the front loading waste collection vehicle, and a weighing system, the weighing system is adapted to weigh material disposed in the collection bin to produce weight measurements and comprises at least one weighing instrument, and a processor, wherein the processor associates the weight measurements with appropriate data, wherein a portion of the weighing system is located on the front loading waste collection vehicle and a portion is located on the collection bin. 16. The collection bin of claim 2, wherein the weighing instrument provides for an accuracy of at least within about 1 pound or less. 17. The collection bin of claim 2, wherein the weighing instrument provides for an accuracy of at least within about 0.5 pounds or less. 18. The collection bin of claim 2, wherein the weighing instrument provides for an accuracy of at least within about 0.1 pounds or less. 