A swipe printer comprising: (a) a printhead for printing a graphic image and a position-coding pattern onto a surface; (b) an ink supply containing a first ink for printing the graphic image and a second ink for printing the position-coding pattern; (c) an image sensor positioned for imaging portions of the surface on which the printhead has printed during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern printed by the printhead during the swipe; and (d) a processor for determining absolute positions of the swipe printer using the parts of the position-coding pattern. The processor is configured to use the absolute positions for controlling an output of the printhead during the swipe.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A swipe printer configured for printing in a swipe direction, the swipe printer comprising: a printhead for printing a graphic image and a position-coding pattern onto a surface; an ink supply containing at least one first ink for printing the graphic image and a second ink for printing the position-coding pattern; at least one first image sensor positioned downstream of said printhead relative to the swipe direction, said first image sensor being configured for imaging portions of said printed surface on which said printhead has printed during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern printed by said printhead during said swipe; and a processor configured for: determining absolute positions of the swipe printer using said imaged parts of the position-coding pattern; and controlling an output of said printhead during said swipe using the determined absolute positions wherein the printhead is configured to print the position-coding pattern as a trail such that each portion of the printed surface imaged by the first image sensor contains part of the position-coding pattern. 2. The swipe printer of claim 1, wherein said second ink is an infrared-absorbing ink. 3. The swipe printer of claim 2, wherein the first ink has an infrared window enabling said first image sensor to image said position-coding pattern in the presence of the first ink. 4. The swipe printer of claim 1, which is configured for unidirectional swiping. 5. The swipe printer of claim 1, further comprising a motion sensor for sensing relative motion of the printer. 6. The swipe printer of claim 5, wherein said processor is configured to use the sensed relative motion together with said absolute positions to control the output of the said printhead. 7. The swipe-printer of claim 1, wherein said position-coding pattern further identifies an orientation of position data relative to a grid containing said position data. 8. The swipe printer of claim 7, wherein said processor is configured to use said part of the position-coding pattern to determine an orientation of the printer relative to said grid, and to use said orientation together with said absolute position to control the output of the said printhead. 9. The swipe printer of claim 1, wherein said position-coding pattern further identifies an impression identity associated with said graphic image. 10. The swipe printer of claim 1, further comprising a first memory for storing a plurality of impression identities, each stored impression identity being associable with a graphic image. 11. The swipe printer of claim 1, further comprising communication means for communicating with a computer system. 12. The swipe printer of claim 11, wherein said processor is configured to generate association data for communication to the computer system, said association data indicating an association between the impression identity and the graphic image such that said graphic image printed by said printer is interactive. 13. The swipe printer of claim 12, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 14. The swipe printer of claim 13, wherein said interactive element is selected from the group comprising: a hyperlink, an input field and a button. 15. The swipe printer of claim 14, wherein said second image sensor is positioned parallel and/or substantially coextensive with said printhead. 16. The swipe printer of claim 1, further comprising a second image sensor configured for scanning the graphic image printed by said printer. 17. The swipe printer of claim 1, wherein said printhead is configured for printing the graphic image and the position-coding pattern substantially simultaneously onto said surface during said swipe. 18. A handheld device comprising the swipe printer according to claim 1. 19. The handheld device of claim 18, which is selected from the group comprising: a mobile phone and a personal digital assistant. 