A manipulator, in particular a small robot, has at least two motor mutually movable limbs with a motion axis of both limbs being acted on by an axle drive that has an external rotor motor, a position transmitter and a transmission. The transmission has at least one planetary gear set with a center gear and at least one planet meshing with it that also meshes with a ring gear and is mounted on a planet carrier. One of both limbs of the manipulators is torque proof connected with the ring gear and is mounted by this radial and/or axially, and the other is torque proof connected by both limbs of the manipulator with the planet carrier and is mounted by this radial and/or axially.
Claims We claim as our invention: 1. A robotic manipulator comprising: at least two limbs connected to each other at a motion axis allowing relative movement of each of said two limbs with respect to each other; an axle drive in mechanical connection with said motion axis that operates on said motion axis to move said limbs relative to each other, said axle drive comprising a rotor motor, a position transmitter and a transmission; and said transmission comprising at least one planetary gear set comprising a center gear and at least one planet gear that meshes with said center gear, and a ring gear, said at least one planet gear being mounted on a planet gear carrier, one of said two limbs being connected to said ring gear with torque-proof connection and being mounted by said ring gear in a ring gear mounting arrangement selected from the group consisting of radial mounting and axial mounting, and the other of said limbs being connected to said planet gear with a torque-proof connection and being mounted by said planet carrier in a planet gear carrier mounting arrangement selected from the group consisting of radial mounting and axial mounting. 2. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said planet gear carrier forms an output shaft having a pot-shape and being pivotably mounted in said ring gear. 3. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 2 wherein said output shaft overlaps said transmission by approximately half of a length of said output shaft. 4. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 comprising a rolling contact bearing between said planet gear carrier and said ring gear. 5. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 4 wherein said rolling contact bearing is a ring ball bearing. 6. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said planetary gear set is a first planetary gear set, and wherein said transmission comprises at least one further planetary gear set sharing a common ring gear with said first planetary gear set. 7. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said rotor motor comprises a stator surrounded by a rotary rotor bell, said stator being connected with a torque-proof connection to the center gear of said planetary gear set. 8. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said ring gear is a rotary rotor bell of said rotor motor. 9. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said ring gear comprises a radial, exterior supporting ring that overlaps said transmission. 10. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said rotor motor is an electronically commutated motor. 11. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said rotor motor is a disk motor. 12. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said position transmitter is located at a front side of said rotor motor opposite said transmission. 13. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said position transmitter comprises a flange that at least partially surrounds an exterior of said rotor motor. 14. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 1 wherein said position transmitter is selected from the group consisting of incremental rotary position transducers and Hall sensors. 