Devices and methods for generating a low-temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma are disclosed. A plasma device may include a first electrode having an inlet for a gas, a second electrode having an outlet for the gas and disposed proximate to the first electrode to form a substantially uniform gap therebetween. The gas flows along the substantially uniform gap and from a plurality of different directions to converge and flow through the outlet. High frequency electrical power is applied between the first electrode and the second electrode to generate a plasma within the gas flow emerging at the outlet. Precursor chemicals are added to the plasma flow at the outlet. Various electrode designs may be implemented and various applications involving surface treatment of materials with the low-temperature atmospheric plasma, including surface activation, cleaning, sterilization, etching and deposition of thin films are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A plasma device comprising: a first electrode having an inlet for a gas; and a second electrode having a single outlet for the gas and disposed proximate to the first electrode to form a substantially uniform gap between surfaces of the first and the second electrode surfaces such that the gas flows into the gap from a plurality of different directions to converge and flow through the single outlet; wherein high frequency electrical power is applied between the first electrode and the second electrode to generate a plasma within the converging gas flow in the gap to emerge at the single outlet at atmospheric pressure and the first electrode comprises a hemispherical shape having a diameter substantially between 0.5 and 5.0 cm and the second electrode is shaped such that the substantially uniform gap is formed with a hemispherical surface of the hemispherical shape of the first electrode and the single outlet is disposed proximate to a center of the second electrode. 2. The plasma device of claim 1, wherein the single outlet of the second electrode provides a direct impingement of a reactive gas of the plasma on a workpiece. 3. The plasma device of claim 1, wherein the inlet comprises a plurality of pathways for directing the gas into the gap in the plurality of directions to converge at the single outlet. 4. The plasma device of claim 1, wherein the gap is formed by a dielectric spacer disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode. 5. The plasma device of claim 1, wherein the curved shape comprises a portion of a cylindrical shape and the curved surface comprises a cylindrical surface. 6. The plasma device of claim 1, wherein the single outlet is circular to yield a spot plasma source. 7. The plasma device of claim 1, wherein the single outlet is slotted to yield a linear plasma source. 8. The plasma device of claim 1, further comprising a precursor distributor for feeding one or more precursor chemicals into the gas flow proximate to the single outlet such that the plasma causes the one or more precursor chemicals to decompose and deposit a film on a workpiece placed downstream. 9. The plasma device of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode form a nozzle for accelerating the gas flow out of the single outlet. 