The invention relates to methods and compositions for identifying soybean plants that are tolerant, have improved tolerance or are susceptible to Charcoal Rot Drought Complex. The methods use molecular genetic markers to identify, select and/or construct tolerant plants or identify and counter-select susceptible plants. Soybean plants that display tolerance or improved tolerance to Charcoal Rot Drought Complex that are generated by the methods of the invention are also a feature of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance, improved tolerance, or susceptibility to Charcoal Rot Drought Complex (CRDC), the method comprising detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of a quantitative trait locus that is associated with the tolerance, or improved tolerance, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including markers Sat.sub.--306 and A363.sub.--3 on linkage group N. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Sat.sub.--295 and A363.sub.--3 on linkage group N. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Satt022 and A363.sub.--3 on linkage group N. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is S02118-1-A. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising A) selecting said first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of said first soybean plant or germplasm, and B) crossing said selected first soybean plant or germplasm with a second soybean plant or germplasm to introgress said quantitative trait locus into progeny soybean germplasm. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm displays less tolerance to CRDC as compared to the first soybean plant or germplasm, and wherein the introgressed soybean plant or germplasm displays an increased tolerance to CRDC as compared to the second plant or germplasm. 7. The method of claim 5, further comprising A) analyzing progeny soybean germplasm to determine the presence of tolerance to CRDC; and B) selecting progeny soybean germplasm that tests positive for the presence of tolerance to CRDC as being soybean germplasm into which germplasm having said quantitative trait locus has been introgressed. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Sat.sub.--125 and A363.sub.--3 on linkage group N. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Satt022 and A455.sub.--2 on linkage group N. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said quantitative trait locus is localized to a chromosomal interval flanked by and including Sat.sub.--125 and A455.sub.--2 on linkage group N. 