In an ultrasound imaging system that applies a beamformer to received ultrasound signal samples to form one or more beams represented by arrays of beamformed samples, a method and an apparatus compress each array of beamformed samples independently of the other arrays to form compressed beams. A plurality of analog to digital converters sample multiple analog ultrasound signals produced by a transducer array to provide multiple streams of ultrasound signal samples to the beamformer. The compressed beams are transferred via a digital interface to a signal processor. At the signal processor, the compressed beams are decompressed to form decompressed beams. The signal processor further processes the decompressed beams for diagnostic imaging, such as for B-mode and Doppler imaging, and scan conversion to prepare the resulting ultrasound image for display. This abstract does not limit the scope of the invention as described in the claims.
Claims I claim: 1. In an ultrasound imaging system including a receive beamformer applied to a plurality of sequences of ultrasound signal samples received during a sampling window to form one or more beams, wherein each beam is represented by an array of beamformed samples, wherein analog to digital conversion of a plurality of analog ultrasound signals output by a plurality of ultrasound transducer elements during the sampling window produce the plurality of sequences of ultrasound signal samples, a method comprising: compressing the beams produced by applying the receive beamformer to the ultrasound signal samples received during the sampling window to form compressed beams, including compressing the beamformed samples in the array representing a particular beam to form compressed beamformed samples for a corresponding compressed beam, wherein the compressing of a particular beamformed sample in the array depends in part on a characteristic of at least one other beamformed sample in the array, wherein each beam is compressed independently of another beam corresponding to the sampling window, wherein the corresponding compressed beam includes fewer bits than the particular beam; and transferring the compressed beams across a digital interface to a signal processor. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the arrays of beamformed samples are downconverted to an intermediate frequency or to a baseband prior to the step of compressing. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: decompressing at least a portion of the compressed beamformed samples of the corresponding compressed beam received from the digital interface to form decompressed beamformed samples for a corresponding decompressed beam, wherein the decompressing is applied to the corresponding compressed beam independently of another compressed beam, wherein the signal processor further processes the decompressed beamformed samples. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of compressing applies block floating point encoding to the array of beamformed samples representing the particular beam to form the corresponding compressed beam. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: decompressing at least a portion of the compressed beamformed samples received from the digital interface by applying block floating point decoding to a corresponding portion of the corresponding compressed beam to form decompressed beamformed samples for a decompressed beam, wherein the signal processor further processes the decompressed beamformed samples. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of compressing further comprises: defining groups of consecutive beamformed samples in the array of beamformed samples corresponding to the particular beam, each group having a predetermined number of beamformed samples; determining an exponent value for the beamformed sample having a maximum magnitude in the group; encoding the exponent value for the group to form an exponent token; forming a mantissa having a reduced number of bits to represent each beamformed sample in the group, wherein the reduced number of bits is based on the exponent value; and representing compressed beamformed samples of the group using the exponent token and a predetermined number of mantissas to form a corresponding compressed group, wherein a plurality of compressed groups form the corresponding compressed beam. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of forming a mantissa further comprises: removing a number of least significant bits (LSBs) from each beamformed sample in the group by truncating or rounding the beamformed sample to form a reduced mantissa, wherein the number of LSBs removed is based on the exponent value, wherein the step of representing the compressed beamformed samples uses the exponent token and the predetermined number of reduced mantissas to form the corresponding compressed group. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the receive beamformer produces J beams, where J is at least two, wherein the groups of beamformed samples of the corresponding beam are in an original group order, the method further comprising: multiplexing the compressed groups corresponding to the J beams to form M multiplexed sequences of compressed groups where M is less than J, including interleaving the compressed groups corresponding to a set of at least two of the compressed beams to form a corresponding multiplexed sequence, wherein the compressed groups in the corresponding multiplexed sequence are arranged in a group order, wherein the step of transferring transfers the M multiplexed sequences. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: decompressing the compressed groups of the corresponding multiplexed sequence received from the digital interface to form decompressed groups containing decompressed beamformed samples, wherein the decompressed groups are in the group order of the corresponding multiplexed sequence; and demultiplexing the decompressed groups of the corresponding multiplexed sequence to form a set of decompressed beams corresponding to the set of the compressed beams, including rearranging the decompressed groups from the group order to restore the original group order to the decompressed beams, wherein the decompressed beams are provided for further signal processing. 10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: decompressing at least a portion of the compressed beamformed samples received from the digital interface by selecting the corresponding compressed groups for decompression to form corresponding groups of decompressed beamformed samples provided for further signal processing. 11. In an ultrasound imaging system including a receive beamformer applied to a plurality of sequences of ultrasound signal samples received during a sampling window to form one or more beams, wherein each beam is represented by an array of beamformed samples, wherein analog to digital conversion of a plurality of analog ultrasound signals output by a plurality of ultrasound transducer elements during the sampling window produce the plurality of sequences of ultrasound signal samples, a method comprising: compressing the beams formed by applying the receive beamformer to the ultrasound signal samples received during the sampling window to form compressed beams, wherein each beam is compressed independently of another beam corresponding to the sampling window, the compressing including: calculating differences between consecutive beamformed samples in the array representing a particular beam to form a corresponding sequence of difference samples, wherein the differences are first order or higher order differences; and encoding the corresponding sequence of difference samples to form the compressed beamformed samples of a corresponding compressed beam, wherein the corresponding compressed beam includes fewer bits than the particular beam; and transferring the compressed beams across a digital interface to a signal processor. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the array of beamformed samples are downconverted to a baseband or an intermediate frequency prior to the step of compressing. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of calculating differences further comprises: calculating differences between the beamformed samples in pairs of beamformed samples in the array separated by a predetermined number of sample intervals to form a corresponding sequence of difference samples; and encoding the corresponding sequence of difference samples to form the compressed beamformed samples of the corresponding compressed beam. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: selectively inverting one of the beamformed samples in each pair of beamformed samples separated by the predetermined number of sample intervals in accordance with an inversion control parameter prior to the step of calculating differences. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising decompressing at least a portion of the compressed beamformed samples received from the digital interface, the decompressing further comprising: decoding the compressed beamformed samples of the corresponding compressed beam to form decoded difference samples; and integrating the decoded difference samples to form decompressed beamformed samples for a corresponding decompressed beam, wherein the integrating calculates first order or higher order integrations to invert the difference operations of the step of calculating differences. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of encoding applies block floating point encoding to the corresponding sequence of difference samples to form the corresponding compressed beam. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising decompressing at least a portion of the compressed beamformed samples received from the digital interface, the decompressing further comprising: decoding the compressed beamformed samples by applying block floating point decoding to the compressed beamformed samples of the corresponding compressed beam to form decoded difference samples; and integrating the decoded difference samples to form decompressed beamformed samples for a corresponding decompressed beam, wherein the integrating calculates first order or higher order integrations to invert the first order or higher order differences of the step of calculating differences. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of encoding further comprises: defining groups of consecutive difference samples in the corresponding sequence of difference samples, each group having a predetermined number of difference samples; determining an exponent value for the difference sample having a maximum magnitude in the group; encoding the exponent value for the group to form an exponent token; forming a mantissa having a reduced number of bits to represent each difference sample in the group, wherein the reduced number of bits is based on the exponent value; and representing the difference samples of the group using the exponent token and a predetermined number of mantissas to form a corresponding compressed group, wherein a plurality of compressed groups form the corresponding compressed beam. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of forming a mantissa further comprises: removing a number of least significant bits (LSBs) from each difference sample in the group by truncating or rounding the difference sample to form a reduced mantissa, wherein the number of LSBs removed is based on the exponent value, wherein the step of representing the difference samples uses the exponent token and the predetermined number of reduced mantissas to form the corresponding compressed group. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the receive beamformer produces N beams, where N is at least two, wherein the groups of difference samples of the corresponding beam are in an original group order, the method further comprising: multiplexing the compressed groups corresponding to the N compressed beams to form M multiplexed sequences of compressed groups where M is less than N, including interleaving the compressed groups corresponding to a set of at least two of the compressed beams to form a corresponding multiplexed sequence, wherein the compressed groups in the corresponding multiplexed sequence are arranged in a group order, wherein the step of transferring transfers the M multiplexed sequences. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: decoding the compressed groups of the corresponding multiplexed sequence received from the digital interface to form decoded groups of decoded difference samples, wherein the decoded groups are in the group order; integrating the decoded difference samples corresponding to the same compressed beam in accordance with the group order to form decompressed groups containing decompressed beamformed samples, wherein the decompressed groups are in the group order of the corresponding multiplexed sequence; and demultiplexing the decompressed groups of the corresponding multiplexed sequence to form a set of decompressed beams corresponding to the set of the compressed beams, including rearranging the decompressed groups from the group order to restore the original group order to the decompressed beams, wherein the decompressed beams are provided for further signal processing. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising: decoding the compressed groups of the corresponding multiplexed sequence received from the digital interface to form decoded groups containing decoded difference samples, wherein the decoded groups are in the group order of the corresponding multiplexed sequence; demultiplexing the decoded groups to form a set of sequences of decoded difference samples corresponding to a set of the compressed beams, including rearranging the decoded groups from the group order to restore the original group order to the sequences of decoded difference samples; and integrating each sequence of decoded difference samples to form decompressed beamformed samples for a corresponding decompressed beam, wherein the integrating calculates first order or higher order integrations to invert the first order or higher order differences of the step of calculating differences. 23. The method of claim 18, further comprising: decompressing at least a portion of the compressed beamformed samples received from the digital interface by selecting the corresponding compressed groups for decompression to form corresponding groups of decompressed beamformed samples provided for further signal processing. 24. In an ultrasound imaging system including a receive beamformer applied to a plurality of sequences of ultrasound signal samples received during a sampling window to form one or more beams, wherein each beam is represented by an array of beamformed samples, wherein a plurality of analog to digital converters samples a plurality of analog ultrasound signals output by a plurality of ultrasound transducer elements during the sampling window produce the plurality of sequences of ultrasound signal samples provided to the receive beamformer, an apparatus comprising: a compressor coupled to the receive beamformer to receive the one or more arrays of beamformed samples formed by applying the receive beamformer to the ultrasound signal samples received during the sampling window, the compressor including one or more compression units, wherein a corresponding compression unit compresses the beamformed samples of a corresponding beam independently of another beam corresponding to the sampling window to form compressed beamformed samples of a corresponding compressed beam, wherein the corresponding compression unit is configured to compress a particular beamformed sample of a particular beam based in part on a characteristic of at least one other beamformed sample of the corresponding beam, wherein the corresponding compressed beam includes fewer bits than the particular beam, wherein the compressor provides the compressed beams to a digital interface for transfer to a signal processor. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising: one or more downconverters coupled between the receive beamformer and the compressor, each downconverter receiving a corresponding beam from the receive beamformer and converting the beamformed samples of the corresponding beam to an intermediate frequency or to a baseband to form a downconverted beam provided to the corresponding compression unit. 26. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising: a decompressor coupled to receive the compressed beams from the digital interface and providing decompressed beams to the signal processor, wherein the decompressor decompresses the compressed beamformed samples of a particular compressed beam independently of another compressed beam corresponding to the sampling window to form decompressed beamformed samples of a corresponding decompressed beam. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the decompressor is implemented in a field programmable gate array (FPGA). 28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the signal processor is implemented in a FPGA, the FPGA further including: a decompression core implementing the decompressor; data channels for receiving the compressed beams from the digital interface to provide the compressed beamformed samples to the decompression core; and data channels for providing the decompressed beams to the signal processor. 29. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the decompressor is implemented at least partially in a graphics processing unit (GPU). 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the signal processor is implemented at least partially in the GPU. 31. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the compression unit further comprises: a block floating point encoder applied to the array of beamformed samples to produce the corresponding compressed beam. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, further comprising: a decompressor receiving the compressed beams from the digital interface and providing decompressed beams to the signal processor, the decompressor including a block floating decoder applied to at least a portion of compressed beamformed samples of the corresponding compressed beam to form decompressed beamformed samples of a corresponding decompressed beam. 33. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the compression unit further comprises: a difference operator to calculate first or higher order differences between consecutive beamformed samples of the corresponding beam to produce a sequence of difference samples; and an encoder to encode the sequence of difference samples to form the compressed beamformed samples of the corresponding compressed beam. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the difference operator calculates the differences between the beamformed samples in pairs of beamformed samples of the corresponding beam, wherein the beamformed samples of each pair are separated by a predetermined number of sample intervals to form the sequence of difference samples. 35. The apparatus of claim 33, further comprising a decompressor receiving the compressed beams from the digital interface and providing decompressed beams to the signal processor, the decompressor including: a decoder applied to at least a portion of the compressed beamformed samples of the corresponding compressed beam to produce a sequence of decoded difference samples; and an integrator for calculating first or higher order integrals of the sequence of decoded difference samples to form decompressed beamformed samples of a corresponding decompressed beam. 36. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the compression unit further comprises: an inverter that selectively inverts one of the beamformed samples in each pair of beamformed samples separated by the predetermined number of sample intervals in accordance with an inversion control parameter to produce the pairs of beamformed samples for the difference operator. 37. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the receive beamformer provides J beams to J compression units to form J compressed beams, wherein the corresponding compression unit produces a plurality of compressed groups of compressed beamformed samples for the corresponding compressed beam, wherein the compressed groups are in an original group order, each compressed group having a predetermined number of compressed beamformed samples, the apparatus further comprising: a group multiplexer receiving the J compressed beams and providing M multiplexed sequences of compressed groups to the digital interface, where M is less than J, the group multiplexer interleaving the groups of compressed samples corresponding to a set of at least two compressed beams to form a corresponding multiplexed sequence, wherein the compressed groups in the corresponding multiplexed sequence are arranged in a group order. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising: a decompressor receiving the M multiplexed sequences from the digital interface and forming M sequences of decompressed groups, wherein the decompressor decompresses the compressed groups of the corresponding multiplexed sequence to form decompressed groups in the group order; and a group demultiplexer coupled to receive the M sequences of decompressed groups and providing J decompressed beams to the signal processor, wherein the decompressed groups of the corresponding multiplexed sequence are rearranged from the group order to the original order to form a set of decompressed beams corresponding to the set of compressed beams. 39. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the compressor is implemented in an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) or a field programmable gate array (FPGA). 