Configurations are provided for vehicular robots or other vehicles to provide shifting of their centers of gravity for enhanced obstacle navigation. Various head and neck morphologies are provided to allow positioning for various poses such as a stowed pose, observation poses, and inspection poses. Neck extension and actuator module designs are provided to implement various head and neck morphologies. Robot control network circuitry is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method performed by a robot for addressing various obstacles, the method comprising: assuming a stable stair ascending position, wherein: the robot comprises: a chassis having a chassis center of gravity; a set of driven flippers, each flipper having a proximal end, a distal end, and a flipper center of gravity therebetween, each the proximal end of each flipper coupled to the chassis near the leading end of the chassis; a neck having a pivot end, a distal end, and a neck center of gravity therebetween, the neck pivotable about a second pivot axis substantially at the leading end of the chassis; and a sensor head at the distal end of the neck, the head having a pivot end, a distal end, and a head center of gravity therebetween, the head pivotable with respect to the neck about a third pivot axis at the distal end of the neck; and in the stable stair ascending position, the centers of gravity of the head, neck, and flippers are positioned to shift a vertical projection of the overall center of gravity of the robot to at least one step span in front of the rearmost main track ground contact point and at least one step span behind the foremost flipper track ground contact point; and assuming an unstable stair ascending position in which the centers of gravity of the head, neck, and flippers are positioned to shift a vertical projection of the overall center of gravity of the robot to outside the stable range. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the sensor head to point the sensor face to a right angle to the neck in an active position. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the sensor head to point the sensor face approximately parallel to the neck in a stowed position. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving to one or more preset positions in response to a respective single operator command. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the head houses at least part of a robot energy storage device. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a total weight of the robot is less than about 30 pounds, the sensor head comprises about 15 percent of a total weight of the robot and the neck comprises about 5 percent of a total weight of the robot. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the neck extension comprises one or more pass-through regions therein through which one or more power cables are disposed, the one or more power cables providing power from batteries disposed on the chassis or steerable drive to a controller in the sensor head. 8. The method of claim 7, the robot further comprising a network switch disposed on the chassis, the network switch operably coupled to at least one network cable connected to the sensor head from the chassis through the one or more pass-through regions and operably coupling the network switch to the controller. 9. The method of claim 7, the robot further comprising power management circuitry disposed on the chassis and operably coupled to circuitry in the sensor head through a power management bus at least partially disposed in the pass-through regions. 10. The method of claim 3, wherein the neck includes an offset for receiving the head in line with a portion of the neck in a stowed position in which the head and neck are substantially within a chassis profile. 11. A method performed by a robot for ascending an obstacle, the method comprising: approaching the obstacle by traveling in a forward direction towards a leading end of a chassis of the robot; raising a set of driven flippers coupled to the chassis near the leading end of the chassis; mounting the obstacle using a steerable drive supporting the chassis and the set of driven flippers to a position where a robot combined CG is over a top edge of the obstacle; pivoting a neck extension and a pan link extension to move the robot combined CG forward, the neck extension removably coupled to the chassis by a neck connector, the pan link extension having proximal and distal ends being coupled to the neck extension at a proximal end of the neck extension with a first tilt access actuator, the pan link extension having a sensor head coupled to a distal end of the pan link extension; and completing the ascension by driving the steerable drive and the driven flippers. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein pivoting the neck extension and pan link extension to move the robot combined CG forward includes pivoting the neck extension and pan link extension to move the robot combined CG downward. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the pan link extension has a one axis actuator along its length. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the pan link extension has at least one angled bend. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein pivoting a neck extension and a pan link extension to move the robot combined CG forward includes pivoting the pan link extension about a first tilt axis actuator between the neck extension and the pan link extension. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein pivoting a neck extension and a pan link extension to move the robot combined CG forward includes moving the sensor head by pivoting the sensor head about a second tilt axis between the sensor head and the pan link extension. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising rotating the second tilt axis actuator 360 degrees. 