A positioning device (13) for producing a light signal (32) to position a robot tool (2) relative to a workpiece (14) is provided. The positioning device (13) comprises a frame (16) and a pair of light sources (22, 24) mounted at the free end of the frame and arranged to direct a pair of light beams (28, 30) therefrom in converging directions which intersect with each other and provide a light signal (32) at a predetermined distance from the free end of the frame (16). The positioning device (13) can include two pairs of light sources to generate two pairs of intersecting light beams (28, 30; 29, 31, ). The two pairs of light sources can be arranged so that the two pairs of light beams (28, 30; 29, 31) are located substantially 90 degrees apart.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A welding torch shroud capable of producing a light signal to position a welding torch relative to a workpiece, the shroud comprising: a frame having first and second opposite ends and defining a channel extending between the first and second ends, the channel adapted to receive a welding nozzle, the first end of the frame being attachable to an end of the welding torch; and a lighting means for producing at least two pairs of light beams projecting away from the second end of the frame, the lighting means comprises at least two pairs of light sources arranged for directing the at least two pairs of light beams therefrom in converging directions so that the at least two pairs of light beams intersect with each other and provide a light signal at a predetermined distance from the second end of the frame, the at least two pairs of intersecting light beams intersecting at substantially the same point and wherein the at least two pairs of light sources are mounted radially outward of the channel and adjacent the second end of the frame. 2. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that the shroud includes means for adjusting the angle or distance of the at least two pairs of light sources to adjust the point of intersection of the at least two pairs of light beams. 3. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that the at least two pairs of lighting sources are at least two pairs of laser diode light sources. 4. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that adjustment means are provided for adjusting the longitudinal position of the frame and/or the at least two pairs of light sources mounted on the frame relative to the end of the welding torch to adjust the distance of the intersection point of the at least two pairs of light beams from the end of the welding torch. 5. The welding torch shroud according to claim 4, characterized in that limiting means are provided to limit the longitudinal movement of the frame and/or the at least two pairs of light sources mounted on the frame relative to the welding torch. 6. The welding torch shroud according to claim 4, characterized in that the adjustment means includes one or more removable spacing elements for location between the first end of the frame and the welding torch. 7. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that attachment means are provided for attaching or detachably attaching the frame to the welding torch. 8. The welding torch shroud according to claim 7, characterized in that the attachment means comprises a screw fitting, bayonet fitting, friction fit, one or more screws, bolts, ties, clips, inter-engaging members or the like. 9. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that the frame is rotatably mounted on the end of the welding torch. 10. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that the at least two pairs of light sources are provided in recesses defined in the second end of the frame. 11. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that lens or magnification means are associated with the at least two pairs of light sources to adjust the size and/or angle of convergence of the at least two pairs of light beams produced from the at least two pairs of light sources. 12. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that each of the at least two pairs of light beams is projected substantially 90 degrees relative to the further light beam pair. 13. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that the frame has a power source in the form of at least one rechargeable battery, the frame includes electrical contact means to allow engagement with complementary electrical contact means provided on a docking station for allowing recharging of said battery. 14. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that each pair of the at least two pairs of light beams is a different color so that when the at least two pairs of light beams overlap, a light signal of a further different color is produced. 15. The welding torch shroud according to claim 1, characterized in that adaptor means are provided for engagement between the first end of the frame and the end of the welding torch. 16. A welding torch shroud capable of producing a light signal to position a welding torch relative to a workpiece, comprising: a frame having first and second opposite ends and defining a channel extending between the first and second ends, the channel adapted to receive a welding nozzle, the first end of the frame being attachable to an end of the welding torch; and a lighting means for producing at least two pairs of light beams projecting away from the second end of the frame, the lighting means comprises at least two pairs of light sources mounted radially outward of the channel and adjacent the second end of the frame arranged for directing the at least two pairs of light beams therefrom in converging directions so that the at least two pairs of light beams intersect with each other and provide a light signal at a predetermined distance from the second end of the frame, the at least two pairs of intersecting light beams intersecting at substantially the same point and wherein adjustment means are provided for adjusting the longitudinal position of the frame and/or the at least two pairs of light sources mounted on the frame relative to the second end of the welding torch to adjust the distance of the intersection point of the at least two pairs of light beams from the second end of the welding torch. 17. The welding torch shroud according to claim 16, characterized in that the frame is rotatably mounted on the end of the welding torch. 18. A welding torch shroud capable of producing a light signal to position a welding torch relative to a workpiece, comprising: a frame having first and second opposite ends and defining a channel extending between the first and second ends, the channel adapted to receive a welding nozzle, the first end of the frame being attachable to an end of the welding torch; and a lighting means for producing at least two pairs of light beams projecting away from the second end of the frame, the lighting means comprises at least two pairs of light sources mounted radially outward of the channel and adjacent the second end of the frame arranged for directing the at least two pairs of light beams therefrom in converging directions so that the at least two pairs of light beams intersect with each other and provide a light signal at a predetermined distance from the second end of the frame, the at least two pairs of intersecting light beams intersecting at substantially the same point and wherein the frame is rotatably mounted on the end of the welding torch. 19. The welding torch shroud according to claim 18, characterized in that adjustment means are provided for adjusting the longitudinal position of the frame and/or the at least two pairs of light sources mounted on the frame relative to the end of the welding torch to adjust the distance of the intersection point of the at least two pairs of light beams from the end of the welding torch. 20. A method of using a welding torch shroud capable of producing a light signal to position a welding torch relative to a workpiece, the shroud comprising: a frame having first and second opposite ends and defining a channel extending between the first and second ends, the channel adapted to receive a welding nozzle, the first end of the frame being attachable to an end of the welding torch; and a lighting means for producing at least two pairs of light beams projecting away from the second end of the frame, the lighting means comprising at least two pairs of light sources providing the at least two pairs of light beams; characterized in that the method includes the steps of: directing the at least two pairs of light beams in converging directions so that the at least two pairs of light beams intersect with each other and provide a light signal at a predetermined distance from the second end of the frame, wherein the at least two pairs of intersecting lighting beams intersect at substantially the same point and wherein the at least two pairs of light sources are mounted radially outward of the channel and adjacent the second end of the frame. 21. A method for positioning a welding torch relative to a platform and determining whether one or more location pins are correctly positioned on the platform, by using the shroud according to claim 1 and characterized by the steps of: moving the welding torch to a pre-programmed position for the location pin; projecting the at least two pairs of light beams from the shroud onto the location pin; and determining whether the at least two pairs of light beams are projected substantially equally around the centre of the location pin in a correct position or if the at least two pairs of light beams are projected in an offset manner from the centre of the location pin in an incorrect position. 22. The method according to claim 21, characterized in that the at least two pairs of light beams are located at substantially 90 degrees to each other. 