This invention concerns the control of rotating excavation machinery, for instance to avoid collisions with obstacles. In a first aspect the invention is a control system for autonomous path planning in excavation machinery, comprising: A map generation subsystem to receive data from an array of disparate and complementary sensors to generate a 3-Dimensional digital terrain and obstacle map referenced to a coordinate frame related to the machine's geometry, during normal operation of the machine. An obstacle detection subsystem to find and identify obstacles in the digital terrain and obstacle map, and then to refine the map by identifying exclusion zones that are within reach of the machine during operation. A collision detection subsystem that uses knowledge of the machine's position and movements, as well as the digital terrain and obstacle map, to identify and predict possible collisions with itself or other obstacles, and then uses a forward motion planner to predict collisions in a planned path. And, a path planning subsystem that uses information from the other subsystems to vary planned paths to avoid obstacles and collisions. In other aspects the invention is excavation machinery including the control system; a method for control of excavation machinery; and firmware and software versions of the control system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A control system for autonomous path planning in excavation machinery, comprising: a map generation subsystem to receive data from an array of sensors to generate a 3-Dimensional digital terrain and obstacle map; an obstacle detection subsystem to find and identify obstacles in the digital terrain and obstacle map, and then to refine the map by identifying 3-Dimensional exclusion zones that are within reach of the machine during operation; a collision detection subsystem that uses knowledge of the machine's position and movements, as well as the digital terrain and obstacle map, to identify possible collisions with itself, the obstacles and the exclusion zones in the refined map; a forward motion planning subsystem to predict collisions in a planned path; and a path planning subsystem that uses information from the other subsystems to vary planned paths to avoid collisions. 2. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the excavation machinery has a central axis of rotation and at least one sensor is mounted on a boom of the machinery. 3. A control system according to claim 2, wherein the machinery is a dragline, shovel or excavator. 4. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the array of sensors used to generate the terrain and obstacle map comprises passive sensors and active sensors. 5. A control system according to claim 4, wherein the passive sensors include a vision sensor. 6. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the array of sensors includes an off-board sensor that is attached to a known movable obstacle, and the obstacle detection subsystem finds the known movable obstacle in the map based on data received from the off-board sensor. 7. A control system according to claim 6, wherein the obstacle detection subsystem is further operable to track movement of the known movable obstacle and the collision detection subsystem further identifies possible collisions with the known movable obstacle based on the tracked movement. 8. A control system according to claim 7, wherein the off-board sensor is a trackable identification tag that is attached to a human or an object. 9. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the 3-Dimensional digital terrain and obstacle map is dynamically constructed during normal operation of the machine. 10. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the 3-Dimensional digital terrain and obstacle map is referenced to a coordinate frame related to the machine's geometry, and is constructed during normal operation of the machine. 11. A control system according to claim 1, wherein virtual obstacles that are not detectable by the array of sensors are incorporated into the digital terrain and obstacle map at any time to limit the operation of the machine. 12. A control system according to claim 11, wherein 3-Dimensional safety zones are assigned to the obstacles detected in the digital terrain and obstacle map to define the minimum clearance area. 13. A control system according to claim 1, wherein path planning is performed using knowledge of the machine's current and desired states and its movement in response to inputs. 14. A control system according to claim 13, wherein the path planning is performed based on criteria such as the shortest path, minimum energy used and the minimum time taken. 15. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the system supports partial automation where possible collisions and the planned path is displayed to the operator of the machine. 16. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the system supports full automation where the planned path is automatically executed by the machine. 17. Excavation machinery including a control system according to claim 1. 18. A method for control of excavation machinery, comprising the steps of: receiving data from an array of sensors to generate a 3-Dimensional digital terrain and obstacle map; finding and identifying obstacles in the digital terrain and obstacle map, and then refining the map by identifying 3-Dimensional exclusion zones that are within reach of the machine during operation; using knowledge of the machine's position and movements, as well as the digital terrain and obstacle map, to identify possible collisions with itself, the obstacles and the exclusion zones in the refined map; predicting collisions in a planned path; and using information from the other subsystems to vary planned paths to avoid collisions. 19. A control system according to claim 1, wherein the control system is located at a location remote to the machine, and communicates with the machine via a wireless link. 