A heart monitoring system for a person includes one or more wireless nodes; and a wearable appliance in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the appliance monitoring vital signs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A monitoring system, comprising: one or more wireless nodes communicating over an aeronautical mobile telemetry (AMT) band; a wearable appliance in communication with the one or more wireless nodes, the appliance monitoring RR (respiratory rate), SpO2 (oxygen saturation), ECG (electrocardiogram), HR (heart rate), core temperature (inside heart) and peripheral temperature (on top of instep), CI (cardiac output index), systematic pressure, pulmonary pressure, ETCO2 (outcoming carbon dioxide), or FIO (ingoing oxygen); and patient monitoring equipment coupled to the wireless nodes to display patient vital signs without attaching cables to a patient. 2. The system of claim 1, comprising a bed receiver coupled to a parabolic antenna under the patient focused to capture signals from the wearable appliance, and a wired transceiver coupled to the bed receiver to communicate with patient monitoring equipment over a wireline from the patient bed after wireless reception. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the wearable appliance includes a high reliability transmission link with a redundant communication protocol to transmit patient data. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising an accelerometer to detect a dangerous condition and to generate a warning when the dangerous condition is detected. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein wireless nodes comprises a mesh wireless network with data hopping from node to node. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the wearable appliance comprises EKG detector, ECG detector, electromagnetic detector, ultrasonic detector, optical detector, NIBP, SpO2, respiration, end-tidal CO2 monitoring, temperature, anesthetic gas analyzer. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance monitors patient movement or patient position using a positioning system. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the wearable appliance performs data encryption to secure patient data. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from a user through the wireless nodes, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 10. The system of claim 1, comprising means to secure the wireless nodes against unauthorized network intrusion. 11. The system of claim 1, comprising a heart disease recognizer to detect stroke symptom or heart attack symptom. 12. The system of claim 1, comprising a database to store patient information. 13. The system of claim 1, comprising a database to store medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 14. The system of claim 1, comprising hospital or operating room patient monitoring equipment coupled to the wireless node. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the nodes communicate over aeronautical mobile telemetry frequency using a mesh network where data hops from node to node. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance comprises a sensor to capture at least one of: RR (respiratory rate), SpO2 (oxygen saturation), ECG (electrocardiogram), HR (heart rate), core temperature (inside heart) and peripheral temperature (on top of instep), CI (cardiac output index), systematic pressure, systematic systolic arterial pressure; systematic diastolic arterial pressure; systematic mean arterial pressure, CVP (central venous pressure), pulmonary pressures, pulmonary systolic arterial pressure, pulmonary diastolic arterial pressure, pulmonary mean arterial pressure, svO2 (oxygen saturation in the lung artery), ETCO2 (outcoming carbon dioxide), FIO (ingoing oxygen), diuretics, patient weight, patient fluid balance (ingoing and outcoming fluids), EEG, intracranial pressure (ICP). 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the wireless nodes are in an ambulance, comprising a long range transceiver coupled to the wireless nodes to send patient data from the ambulance to the hospital. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein unused transmitter is enabled as needed during RF interference and otherwise disabled to conserve power. 19. The system of claim 1, comprising a frequency hopping transmitter and an ultrawideband transmitter, wherein the ultrawideband transmitter is operated during an RF interference. 20. The system of claim 1, comprising a frequency hopping transmitter and an optical transmitter, wherein the optical transmitter is operated during an RF interference. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the wearable appliance slows down transmission data rate when RF interference is detected. 22. The system of claim 1, comprising a plurality of directional antennas placed around the patient or under a patient, wherein each directional antenna is aimed at the wearable appliance to capture transmission from the wearable appliance. 23. The system of claim 1, comprising a parabolic antenna placed under the patient and focused to capture signals from the wearable appliance mounted on the patient. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the wearable transceiver stores copies of patient data in a queue and removes each entry in the queue only after confirmation of reception by a remote processor, wherein the queue comprises nonvolatile memory. 