A technique for low-temperature ion implantation is disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment, the technique may be realized as an apparatus for low-temperature ion implantation. The apparatus may comprise a pre-chill station located in proximity to an end station in an ion implanter; a cooling mechanism within the pre-chill station configured to cool a wafer from ambient temperature to a predetermined range less than ambient temperature; a loading assembly coupled to the pre-chill station and the end station; and a controller in communication with the loading assembly and the cooling mechanism to coordinate loading a wafer into the pre-chill station, cooling the wafer down to the predetermined temperature range before any ion implantation into the wafer, and loading the cooled wafer into the end station where the cooled wafer undergoes an ion implantation process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for low-temperature ion implantation, the apparatus comprising: a pre-chill station located in proximity to an end station in an ion implanter; a cooling mechanism within the pre-chill station configured to cool a wafer from ambient temperature to a predetermined range less than ambient temperature; a loading assembly coupled to the pre-chill station and the end station; and a controller in communication with the loading assembly and the cooling mechanism to coordinate loading a wafer into the pre-chill station, cooling the wafer down to the predetermined temperature range before any ion implantation into the wafer, and loading the cooled wafer into the end station where the cooled wafer undergoes an ion implantation process. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the pre-chill station encloses a first vacuum space, and the end station enclosing a second vacuum space separate from the first vacuum space. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the ion implanter is a single-wafer ion implanter that processes one wafer at a time in the end station. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further adapted to cause the loading assembly to remove the wafer from the end station immediately after the ion implantation process. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the end station comprises a platen that holds the wafer during the ion implantation process, and wherein the wafer is thermally substantially isolated from the platen. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the platen comprises a plurality of mesa structures that support the wafer, such that total contact area between the platen and the wafer is substantially smaller than the wafer surface. 7. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the platen facilitates tilting and rotation of the wafer. 8. The apparatus, according to claim 1, wherein the pre-chill station comprises a fixed platen that holds the wafer for cooling. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the fixed platen comprises lift pins to accommodate loading and unloading of the wafer by the loading assembly. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the wafer is attached to an object to achieve a larger thermal mass such that the wafer experiences a smaller temperature increase during the ion implantation process. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the object is a carrier plate that is heavier than the wafer. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cooling mechanism cools the wafer based on one or more techniques selected from a group consisting of: gas cooling, coolant circulation, coolant phase change, Peltier heat transfer, and a built-in cryopump. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein an amount of temperature increase due to the ion implantation process is predicted for the wafer, and wherein the controller is further configured to cause the wafer to be cooled based at least in part on the predicted amount of temperature increase to avoid overheating the wafer during the ion implantation process. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the pre-chill station is part of a loadlock coupled to the end station. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined temperature range is less than or equal to -50.degree. C. 16. A method for low-temperature implantation, the method comprising: cooling a wafer down to a predetermined temperature range less than ambient temperature before any ion implantation into the wafer; loading the cooled wafer into an end station; and performing an ion implantation process on the cooled wafer. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the predetermined temperature range is less than or equal to -50.degree. C. 18. The method according to claim 16, further comprising: warming up the wafer above a dew point after the ion implantation process. 19. The method according to claim 16, further comprising: predicting an amount of temperature increase for the wafer due to the ion implantation process; and cooling the wafer based at least in part on the predicted amount of temperature increase to avoid overheating the wafer during the ion implantation process. 20. The method according to claim 16, further comprising: pausing the ion implantation process; re-cooling the wafer to a desired temperature; and resuming the ion implantation process. 