A radiosurgery system is described that delivers a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, based on ocular imaging, which leads to direction of an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of an ocular structure is tracked and related to a radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial aids in positioning the system. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system, for treating an eye with x-ray radiation, comprising: an x-ray radiation emitter that emits x-ray radiation toward the eye during a treatment session; a collimator that collimates the emitted x-ray radiation into a collimated x-ray radiation beam having a cross-section dimension of less than about 6 mm; and an eye mapping module that repeatedly maps locations of ocular structures in a posterior region of the eye to a coordinate system during the treatment session. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the eye mapping module comprises a sensor that detects locations of the eye structures. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising, a sensor that detects movement of the eye during the treatment session. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising a system shut-off that reduces or ceases emission of x-ray radiation when the sensor detects that eye movement is beyond a movement threshold. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising an x-ray radiation emitter mover that moves the x-ray radiation emitter to direct the emitted x-ray radiation toward the eye. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the x-ray radiation emitter mover is coupled to the eye mapping module and moves the x-ray radiation emitter based on mapped locations of eye structures during the treatment session. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an eye-contact member that engages a surface of the eye during the treatment session and provides to the eye mapping module an indication of movement of the eye. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the eye-contact member creates a suction between the eye-contact member and the surface of the eye to maintain the eye in substantially a fixed position. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the eye-contact member is coupled to the eye mapping module. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the eye-contact member comprises a material that is at least partially transmissive of the x-ray radiation beam. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the eye mapping module comprises an image detection system that detects at least one of a fundus, a limbus, a cornea, and a reflection off a surface of the eye. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the x-ray radiation emitter is configured to be stationary relative to a position of the eye during the treatment session. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the cross-sectional dimension comprises a diameter between about 0.5 mm and about 5 mm. 14. A planning system, for delivery of x-ray radiation to an eye, comprising: a processing module that receives an input comprising a biometric parameter of the eye; wherein, based on the biometric parameter, the processing module outputs to an electromotive system a direction for an x-ray beam to be emitted onto the sclera of the eye, the biometric parameter comprising at least one of an axial length of an eye and an anterior chamber depth; and a collimator that collimates the emitted x-ray beam into an x-ray beam having a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the biometric parameter comprises at least one of an ocular axial length, an anterior chamber depth, a corneal thickness, and a corneal diameter. 16. The system of claim 14, further comprising an image detection system that detects at least one of a fundus, a limbus, a cornea, and a reflection off a surface of the eye. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the image detection system is coupled to the processing module and provides to the processing module the input comprising the biometric parameter of the eye. 18. The system of claim 14, further comprising an x-ray radiation emitter that emits x-ray radiation, during a treatment session, having an energy of from about 10 keV to about 500 keV. 19. The system of claim 14, further comprising the electromotive system that directs the x-ray beam to be emitted onto the sclera of the eye. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein the cross-sectional dimension comprises a diameter between about 0.5 mm and about 5 mm. 21. A planning system, for delivery of x-ray radiation to an eye, comprising: means for processing an input comprising a biometric parameter of the eye; means for directing an x-ray beam to be emitted onto the sclera of the eye; wherein, based on the biometric parameter, the means for processing outputs to the means for directing a direction for the x-ray beam to be emitted onto the sclera of the eye, the biometric parameter comprising at least one of an axial length of an eye and an anterior chamber depth; and means for collimating the emitted x-ray beam into an x-ray beam having a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the biometric parameter comprises at least one of an ocular axial length, an anterior chamber depth, a corneal thickness, and a corneal diameter. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the cross-sectional dimension comprises a diameter between about 0.5 mm and about 5 mm. 