Embodiments of the present invention relate to the use of a particle accelerator beam to form thin films of material from a bulk substrate. In particular embodiments, a bulk substrate having a top surface is exposed to a beam of accelerated particles. Then, a thin film of material is separated from the bulk substrate by performing a controlled cleaving process along a cleave region formed by particles implanted from the beam. To improve uniformity of depth of implantation, channeling effects are reduced by one or more techniques. In one technique, a miscut bulk substrate is subjected to the implantation, such that the lattice of the substrate is offset at an angle relative to the impinging particle beam. According to another technique, the substrate is tilted at an angle relative to the impinging particle beam. In still another technique, the substrate is subjected to a dithering motion during the implantation. These techniques may be employed alone or in combination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: providing a substrate having a surface region and a thickness; generating a beam of accelerated particles; scanning the beam in two dimensions over the surface region to form a cleave region beneath the surface region and defining a thickness of material to be detached; during the scanning, moving the substrate to alter an effective angle between the beam and a plane of the surface of the substrate; and freeing the thickness of material to be detached from the substrate using a controlled cleaving process. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the moving alters an angle at which the particles impact the substrate, thereby distributing channeling over the substrate. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the moving comprises tilting the substrate around a first axis. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the moving further comprises tilting the substrate along a second axis. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising offsetting a lattice of the substrate relative to the beam by a constant angle. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the offsetting occurs around an axis different from the first axis. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the lattice is offset by a miscut. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the lattice is offset by inclining the surface region relative to the beam. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the accelerated particles comprise hydrogen species, helium species, or a combination of hydrogen and helium species. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the thickness of material to be detached is between about 10-200 um. 11. A method for manufacturing a free-standing film from a bulk substrate, the method comprising: providing a pedestal bonded to a bottom surface of a bulk substrate having an exposed top surface; providing a platen moveably disposed relative to a mechanical element; clamping the pedestal to the platen with a clamp device; causing a particle accelerator to introduce a particle beam into the exposed top surface to form a cleave region; and performing a controlled cleaving process along the cleave region to separate a film of material from the bulk substrate. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the pedestal is clamped to the platen utilizing a magnetic clamp device. 13. The method of claim 11 further comprising, during the introduction of the particle beam into the surface of the bulk substrate, causing the mechanical element to impart a dithering motion to the platen. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the mechanical element is configured to provide a relative incident angle between the particle beam and the top surface to reduce ion channeling effects. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the particle beam has an energy level ranging from about 0.5 MeV to 5 MeV. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the particle beam comprises hydrogen species, or deuterium species, or helium species. 17. The method of claim 11 wherein the platen is provided with an upper surface inclined at an angle relative to the particle beam, the method further comprising causing the platen to engage with the pedestal such that the top surface of the bulk substrate is also inclined at the angle. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the platen engages with the pedestal in a kinematic manner. 19. The method of claim 11 further seating the pedestal within an open frame pallet prior to engagement of the pedestal and the plate. 20. A method of fabricating a photovoltaic cell, the method comprising: providing a plurality of semiconductor substrates, each semiconductor substrate including an exposed surface and a lattice comprising a plurality of primary crystal planes; scanning a beam of accelerated particles in a fan shape over the plurality of substrates at a range of angles relative to the exposed surfaces, such that at points of impingement of the beam on the exposed surfaces, the plurality of primary crystal planes are misaligned with the beam; forming a thickness of semiconductor material by cleaving the semiconductor substrate along a cleave region resulting from implantation of the accelerated particles; and incorporating the thickness of material into a photovoltaic cell. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein: at the points of impingement, the exposed surfaces are oriented substantially perpendicular to the beam; and the exposed surfaces are miscut relative to the primary crystal planes. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising subjecting the plurality of substrates to a dithering motion during the scanning of the beam. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein: at the points of impingement, the plurality of primary crystal planes are misaligned with the beam due at least in part to an inclination of the exposed surfaces relative to the beam. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the inclination of the exposed surface results from a fixed tilting of the plurality of substrates. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the inclination of the exposed surface also results from a dithering motion during the scanning of the beam. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein the inclination of the exposed surface results from a dithering motion of the plurality of substrates during the scanning of the beam. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein a timing of the dithering motion is coordinated with a timing of the scanning to misalign the plurality of primary crystal planes from the beam. 