A system and method for determining an optimal backbone for a robotic relay network are provided. A robotic relay network comprising a plurality of nodes including a base station node, one or more mobile relay nodes, and one or more user nodes is provided. A signal strength value for each pair-wise communication link between each of the nodes is identified. A weight function is applied to each communication link value to determine a communication link weight. An optimal backbone tree is determined from the communication link weights.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for determining an optimal backbone for a robotic relay network, comprising: a robotic relay network comprising a plurality of nodes including a base station node, one or more mobile relay nodes, and one or more user nodes; a signal module to identify a signal strength value for each pair-wise communication link between each of the nodes; a weight module to apply a weight function to each communication link value to determine a communication link weight, wherein the weight function is applied according to one of the following equations: w(v)=1/ {square root over ((v))} where w is the communication link weight, and v is the signal strength value; or w(v)=|v-vo| if v>vc and w(v)=M+vc-v if v.ltoreq.vc where w is the communication link weight, v is the signal strength value, vc is a cutoff signal strength value threshold, vo is an optimal signal strength value, vm is a maximum signal strength value, and M=max(vo-vc, vm-vo); and a backbone module to determine an optimal backbone tree from the communication link weights. 2. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: a node identification module to identify the mobile relay nodes in the optimal backbone tree as stable nodes and the remaining mobile relay nodes as redundant nodes. 3. A system according to claim 2, further comprising: a location module to locate nodes previously unconnected to the mobile relay network by the redundant nodes; and a connection module to connect the located nodes to the mobile relay network, wherein the backbone module is further configured to redetermine the optimal backbone tree to include the located nodes. 4. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: an optimization module to minimize the number of mobile relay nodes connecting the user nodes to the base station in the optimal backbone tree. 5. A system according to claim 1, further comprising: an optimization module to maximize optimal link quality of the optimal backbone tree. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein the signal strength value for each pair-wise communication link is one of an average of the pair-wise communication link and the smaller of the pair-wise communication link. 7. A method for determining an optimal backbone for a robotic relay network, comprising: providing a robotic relay network comprising a plurality of nodes including a base station node, one or more mobile relay nodes, and one or more user nodes; identifying a signal strength value for each pair-wise communication link between each of the nodes; applying a weight function to each communication link value to determine a communication link weight, wherein the weight function is applied according to one of the following equations: w(v)=1/ {square root over ((v))} where w is the communication link weight, and v is the signal strength value; or w(v)=|v-vo| if v>vc and w(v)=M+vc-v if v.ltoreq.vc where w is the communication link weight, v is the signal strength value, vc is a cutoff signal strength value threshold, vo is an optimal signal strength value, vm is a maximum signal strength value, and M=max(vo-vc, vm-vo); and determining an optimal backbone tree from the communication link weights. 8. A method according to claim 7, further comprising: identifying the mobile relay nodes in the optimal backbone tree as stable nodes; and identifying the remaining mobile relay nodes as redundant nodes. 9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: locating nodes previously unconnected to the mobile relay network by the redundant nodes; connecting the located nodes to the mobile relay network; and redetermining the optimal backbone tree to include the located nodes. 10. A method according to claim 7, further comprising: minimizing the number of mobile relay nodes connecting the user nodes to the base station in the optimal backbone tree. 11. A method according to claim 7, further comprising: maximizing optimal link quality of the optimal backbone tree. 12. A method according to claim 7, wherein the signal strength value for each pair-wise communication link is one of an average of the pair-wise communication link and the smaller of the pair-wise communication link. 13. A method for determining an optimal backbone for a robotic relay network with minimal internal nodes, comprising: providing a robotic relay network comprising a plurality of nodes including a base station node, one or more mobile relay nodes, and one or more user nodes; identifying a signal strength value for each pair-wise communication link between each of the nodes; applying a weight function to each communication link value to determine a communication link weight, wherein the weight function is applied according to the equation: w(v)=1/ {square root over ((v))} where w is the communication link weight, and v is the signal strength value; and determining an optimal backbone tree comprising a minimal number of nodes connecting the user nodes to the base station from the communication link weights. 14. A method according to claim 13, further comprising: determining the shortest path from each node to the base station. 15. A method according to claim 13, further comprising: identifying nodes previously unconnected to the mobile relay network; and connecting the identified nodes to the mobile relay network. 