A method and apparatus is disclosed, for construction and operation of an all terrain polymorphic tracked vehicle. The invention improves on the prior art by providing a mechanism whereby it is possible to vary the shapes of the tracks during operation of the vehicle. This capability facilitates negotiating obstacles and rough terrain, enables such vehicles to climb stairs or similar obstacles, and also enables self leveling of the vehicle on inclined terrain.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which we claim an exclusive property or privilege are defined as follows: 1. A polymorphic vehicle, comprising: a) a chassis including a main body with left and right sides; b) a left pair of arms on the left side of the vehicle, comprising front and rear arms, each arm being rotatably attached to the chassis about a transverse axis, allowing rotation of the arm about said transverse axis, wherein said transverse axis passes through the mid-point along the length of said arm; c) a right pair of arms on the right side of the vehicle, comprising front and rear arms, each arm being rotatably attached to the chassis about a transverse axis, allowing rotation of the arm about said transverse axis, wherein said transverse axis passes through the mid-point along the length of said arm; d) for each pair of arms, an actuation system consisting of a transmission, actuator, and linkage, which enables said pair's front and rear arms to be rotated in synchronous motion; e) rotatably attached to each such arm, at least two wheels or track sprockets, at least one such wheel or track sprocket located near to each end of said arm, said outer-mist wheels at each end of said arm being positioned equi-distantly from the mid-point along said arm, through which passes the axis of said arm's rotational attachment to the chassis; f) at least one drive system and preferably two independent drive systems, comprising at least one motor, engine or other actuator, and associated transmissions and linkages, to cause at least one of the wheels or track sprockets on each side of the vehicle to rotate; g) a single right and a single left track belt, each belt extending around, supported by and operably interfacing with all of the wheels or track sprockets mounted on the right and left pairs of arms respectively, such that causing any wheel or track sprocket to rotate will drive the track belt with which said wheel or track sprocket interfaces. 2. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, further including a remote control unit, operably connected to the vehicle. 3. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 2, wherein the remote control unit is connected by way of radio frequency. 4. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, further including a motorized pan-tilt platform, mounted on the chassis. 5. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, further including a robotic arm or other manipulating device mounted on the chassis. 6. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, further including a firearm or other weapons system, mounted on the chassis. 7. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, further including accessories attached thereto, wherein said accessories are chosen from the group consisting of image capture devices, visible light cameras, infra red cameras, time of flight cameras, microphones, range finders, lasers, bio-chemical sensors, radiation sensors, x-ray equipment, disrupters; and also including wireless equipment, standard sensors and combinations thereof. 8. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one wheel or track sprocket is compliant to impact. 9. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the rotatable arms is compliant to impact. 10. A polymorphic tracked vehicle as claimed in claim 1 further including a track tensioning device. 11. A polymorphic, vehicle as claimed in claim 10, wherein springs mounted inside at least one of the rotatable arms push outwards on the mounting mechanisms of at least one of the wheels or track sprockets, thereby maintaining tension in the track belt with which said wheel or track sprocket interfaces. 12. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 10, wherein actuators mounted on the rotatable arms can be used to alter the position along the arm at which at least one of the wheels or track sprockets is mounted, thereby controlling the tension in the track belt with which said wheel or track sprocket interfaces. 13. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the rotatable interfaces between the chassis and the arms, and any mechanisms and control systems associated with said interfaces, are designed such that said interfaces provide elastic or damped elastic mechanical impedance in response to torsional disturbances, thereby providing a springy, shock absorbing suspension for said vehicle. 14. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one arm is rotatably connected to the chassis via a rotatable toroidal structure, whereby power can be delivered to at least one wheel or track sprocket mounted on said arm, via a rotating shaft which passes through the center of said toroidal structure, such that said shaft and said toroidal structure may rotate independently of each other. 15. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, wherein pistons or other linear actuators are functionally connected between the chassis and at least one of the arms, thereby providing a means of causing said arms to rotate with respect to said chassis. 16. A polymorphic vehicle as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one motor is mounted on at least one rotatable arm, and wherein said motor is functionally connected with at least one wheel or track sprocket mounted on said arm, in order to deliver rotational power to said wheel or track sprocket. 17. A method for operating a polymorphic tracked vehicle, having a front arm and rear arm rotatably attached to each side of the vehicle at the mid-points of said arms, with wheels or track sprockets rotatably attached to each arm, and with single left and single right track belts which each extend around all of the rotatable wheels or track sprockets on the left and right sides of the vehicle respectively, so as to cause the vehicle to climb a series of stairs having a rise in elevation at the first stair and at each subsequent stair, comprising: a) rotating the arms so that the highest part of at least one track belt is raised at least as high as the rise of the first stair; b) driving at least one of the track belts, so as to propel the vehicle towards the stairs, until at least one of the track belts contacts the first stair; c) rotating the anus on at least one side or the vehicle in order extend the tracked base or the vehicle; d) driving at least one of the track belts so as to propel the vehicle tip the series of stairs. 18. A method for operating a polymorphic tracked vehicle, having a front arm and rear arm rotatably attached to each side of the vehicle at the mid-points of said arms, with wheels or track sprockets rotatably attached to each arm, and with single left and single right track belts which each extend around all, of the rotatable wheels or track sprockets on the left and right sides of the vehicle respectively, so as to change the height at which the main body of the vehicle is raised above the ground, comprising synchronously rotating the front and rear arms on at least one side of the vehicle, thereby causing a change in the vertical separation between the highest and lowest parts of the track, which is supported by the wheels or track sprockets which are rotatably attached to said arms, thereby causing a change in the height of at least one side of the main body of the vehicle above the ground. 19. A method for operating a polymorphic tracked vehicle, as claimed in claim 18, wherein the arms on the left side of the vehicle and the arms on the right side of the vehicle are rotated by different amounts, thereby causing a change in height above the ground of the left side of the vehicle's main body which is different from the change in height above the ground of the right side of the vehicle's main body, thereby changing the level of incline of the vehicle's main body relative to the ground, and thereby providing a means for self leveling of the vehicle when it is on inclined or uneven terrain. 