A vehicle convoy system for use in connection with a vehicle, wherein the vehicle includes at least one drive mechanism to impart drive to the vehicle, includes at least a first processor that is adapted to be placed in operative or communicative connection with the drive mechanism to effect control of the drive mechanism based upon data of the position of a leading vehicle in front of the vehicle so that the vehicle moves to follow movement of the leading vehicle. The vehicle can, for example, be a self-propelled wheelchair.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vehicle convoy system for use in connection with a powered vehicle adapted to provide mobility, the powered vehicle comprising at least one drive mechanism to impart drive to the powered vehicle and a controller in operative connection with the drive mechanism, the vehicle convoy system comprising at least a first processor adapted to be placed in communicative connection with the drive mechanism to effect control of the drive mechanism based upon data of the position of a leading vehicle in front of the powered vehicle, a tether to removably connect the powered vehicle to the leading vehicle, a length of the tether being variable when connecting the powered vehicle to the leading vehicle, and at least a first sensor associated with the tether and in communicative connection with the first processor to provide data to the first processor of the position of the leading vehicle so that the powered vehicle is adapted to move to follow movement of the leading vehicle when the powered vehicle is placed in connection with the leading vehicle via the tether, the leading vehicle being adapted to provide mobility independently from the powered vehicle when the powered vehicle is not tethered to the leading vehicle, the first processor of the powered vehicle convoying system being in communicative connection with the controller to transmit a signal to the controller based upon data of the position of the leading vehicle. 2. The vehicle convoying system of claim 1 wherein the powered vehicle is a wheelchair. 3. The vehicle convoying system of claim 1 wherein the first sensor is adapted to sense the distance to which the tether is extended. 4. The vehicle convoying system of claim 3 further comprising a second sensor, the second sensor being adapted to sense an orientation of the tether in the vicinity of the powered vehicle. 5. The vehicle convoying system of claim 4 wherein the first processor is in communicative connection with the first sensor, the second sensor and the controller to receive data from at least one of the first sensor and the second sensor and to execute at least one algorithm to generate the signal. 6. The vehicle convoying system of claim 3 wherein the tether comprises a length of flexible material. 7. The vehicle convoying system of claim 6 further comprising a drum around which the flexible material is retractably wound. 8. The vehicle convoying system of claim 7 wherein the first sensor comprises a first rotary encoder operatively connected to the drum. 9. The vehicle convoying system of claim 8 further comprising a second sensor adapted to sense an orientation of the tether in the vicinity of the powered vehicle. 10. The vehicle convoying system of claim 9 further comprising at least a third sensor to measure orientation of the tether in the vicinity of the leading vehicle. 11. The vehicle convoying system of claim 10 wherein the first processor is in communicative connection with the first sensor, the second sensor, the third sensor and the controller to receive data from at least one of the first sensor, the second sensor and the third sensor and to execute at least one algorithm to generate the signal. 12. The vehicle convoying system of claim 11 further comprising a connection sensor to sense when the tether is connected to the leading vehicle. 13. The vehicle convoying system of claim 12 wherein the tether comprises a coupling and the connection sensor senses when the coupling is connected to the leading vehicle. 14. The vehicle convoying system of claim 13 wherein the coupling is a magnetic coupling. 15. The vehicle convoying system of claim 11 wherein the signal emulates a signal from a manual control system of the powered vehicle. 16. The vehicle convoying system of claim 11 further comprising a first module comprising a connector to connect the first module to the vehicle, the first module further comprising a drum around which the flexible material is retractably windable, the first sensor, the second sensor and the first processor. 17. The vehicle convoying system of claim 16 further comprising a second module comprising a connector to connect the second module to the leading vehicle, the second module comprising the third sensor. 18. The vehicle convoying system of claim 17 wherein the first module comprises a first communication system in operative connection with the first processor and the second module comprises a second communication system to communicate with the first communication system in a wireless manner. 19. The vehicle convoying system of claim 18 wherein the second module comprises a second processor in communicative connection with the third sensor and with the second communication system. 20. The vehicle convoying system of claim 19 wherein the second module comprises a connection sensor in communicative connection with the second processor to sense when the tether is connected to the leading vehicle. 21. The vehicle convoying system of claim 20 wherein the extending end of the tether comprises a magnetic coupling. 22. The vehicle convoying system of claim 20 wherein the signal emulates a signal from a manual control system of the powered vehicle. 23. The vehicle convoying system of claim 22 wherein the manual control system is a joystick. 24. The vehicle convoying system of claim 1 wherein the signal from the convoying system to the controller is adapted to enable to the controller to control the drive mechanism to drive the powered vehicle to maintain substantially the same speed as the leading vehicle and substantially the same trajectory as the leading vehicle. 25. A vehicle for providing mobility, comprising: at least one drive mechanism to impart drive to the vehicle; at least one controller in communicative connection with the drive mechanism to control the drive mechanism; at least one convoying system in communicative connection with the controller, the convoying system comprising a tether of variable length to removably connect the vehicle to a leading vehicle in front of the vehicle and at least a first sensor associated with the tether to provide data of the position of the leading vehicle, the convoying system being adapted to transmit a signal to the controller based upon the data of the position of the leading vehicle so that the vehicle is adapted to move to follow movement of the leading vehicle, the leading vehicle being adapted to provide mobility independently from the vehicle when the vehicle is not tethered to the leading vehicle. 26. The vehicle of claim 25 wherein the vehicle is a wheelchair. 27. The vehicle of claim 26 wherein the signal emulates a signal from a manual control system of the vehicle. 28. The vehicle of claim 25 wherein the tether is extendible and the first sensor is adapted to sense the distance to which the tether is extended. 29. The vehicle of claim 28 wherein the convoying system further comprises a second sensor, the second sensor being adapted to sense an orientation of the tether in the vicinity of the vehicle. 30. The vehicle of claim 29 wherein the convoying system comprises at least a first processor in communicative connection with the first sensor, the second sensor and the controller to receive data from at least one of the first sensor and the second sensor and to execute at least one algorithm to generate the signal. 31. The vehicle of claim 28 wherein the tether is a length of flexible material. 32. The vehicle of claim 31 wherein the convoying system further comprises a drum around which the flexible material is retractably wound. 33. The vehicle of claim 32 wherein the first sensor comprises a first rotary encoder operatively connected to the drum. 34. The vehicle of claim 33 wherein the second sensor comprises a second rotary encoder. 35. The vehicle of claim 31 wherein the convoying system further comprises at least a third sensor to measure orientation of the tether in the vicinity of the leading vehicle. 36. The vehicle of claim 35 wherein the convoying system comprises at least a first processor in communicative connection with the first sensor, the second sensor, the third sensor and the controller to receive data from at least one of the first sensor, the second sensor and the third sensor and to execute at least one algorithm to generate the signal. 37. The vehicle of claim 36 wherein the convoying system is adapted to sense when the tether is connected to the leading vehicle. 38. A vehicle convoy comprising: at least one leading vehicle; and at least one trailing vehicle positioned behind the leading vehicle, the trailing vehicle comprising at least one drive mechanism to impart drive to the trailing vehicle; at least one controller in communicative connection with the drive mechanism to control the drive mechanism; and at least one convoying system in communicative connection with the controller, the convoying system comprising a tether of variable length to removably connect the trailing vehicle to the leading vehicle and at least a first sensor associated with the tether to provide data of the position of the leading vehicle, the convoying system being adapted to transmit a signal to the controller so that the trailing vehicle is adapted to move to follow movement of the leading vehicle, the leading vehicle being adapted to provide mobility independently from the trailing vehicle when the trailing vehicle is not tethered to the leading vehicle. 39. The vehicle convoy of claim 38 wherein at least one of the leading vehicle and the trailing vehicle is a wheelchair. 40. A method of grouping at least one trailing vehicle and at least one leading vehicle in a convoy comprising: positioning the trailing vehicle behind the leading vehicle, the trailing vehicle comprising at least one drive mechanism to impart drive to the vehicle; at least one controller in communicative connection with the drive mechanism to control the drive mechanism; and at least one convoying system in communicative connection with the controller, the convoying system comprising a tether of variable length to removably connect the trailing vehicle to the leading vehicle and at least a first sensor associated with the tether to provide data of the position of the leading vehicle, connecting the tether between the trailing vehicle and the leading vehicle; causing the convoying system to transmit a signal to the controller so that the trailing vehicle is adapted to move to follow movement of the leading vehicle, the leading vehicle being adapted to provide mobility independently from the trailing vehicle when the trailing vehicle is not tethered to the leading vehicle. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein at least one of the leading vehicle and the trailing vehicle is a wheelchair. 