A sensor fabric has a plurality of flakes of a flexoelectric material and electrodes as threads for connecting the flakes together. Each flake has at least one pair of opposite edges connected by two separate electrodes. When the sensor fabric is placed in contact with the surface of an object, the flake is bent along the contour of the object surface. The bending of the flexoelectric flake generates a polarization voltage between its opposite edges, which can be measured via the electrodes to determine the local surface contour of the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor fabric for touch sensing, comprising: a plurality of flakes of a flexoelectric material, each flake having a first edge and a second edge opposite to the first edge, and opposing surfaces defining a plane, the first and second edges being disposed in the plane; and a plurality of electrodes connected to the flakes for sensing a bias voltage between the first and second edges of each flake, wherein the electrodes connected to the flakes include a first group of electrodes running in a first direction and a second group of electrodes running in a second direction, each electrode in the first group being connected to the first edges of the plurality of flakes, and each electrode in the second group being connected to the second edges of the plurality of flakes. 2. A sensor fabric as in claim 1, wherein the flexoelectric material has a two-dimensional non-centrosymmetric lattice structure. 3. A sensor fabric as in claim 2, wherein the flexoelectric material is boron nitride. 4. A sensor fabric as in claim 2, wherein the flexoelectric material is boron carbon nitride. 5. A sensor fabric as in claim 1, wherein each flake further includes a third edge and a fourth edge opposite to the third edge, and the electrodes further include a third group of electrodes running in the first direction and a fourth group of electrodes running in the second direction, each electrode in the third group being connected to the third edges of the plurality of flakes, and each electrode in the fourth group being connected to the fourth edges of the plurality of flakes. 6. A sensor fabric as in claim 1, further including a flexible substrate supporting the flakes and electrodes. 7. A sensor fabric as in claim 1, wherein the flakes have a rectangular shape. 8. A sensor fabric as in claim 1, wherein the flakes have a hexagonal shape. 9. A sensor fabric as in claim 1, wherein the first edge is substantially parallel to the second edge. 10. A method of sensing a shape of an object, comprising: placing a sensor fabric in contact with a surface of the object, the sensor fabric has a plurality of flakes of a flexoelectric material and a plurality of electrodes connected to the flakes, each flake having a first edge and a second edge opposite to the first edge, and opposing surfaces defining a plane, the first and second edges being disposed in the plane; and sensing a bias voltage between the first and second edges of each flake caused by bending of the flake, wherein the electrodes connected to the flakes include a first group of electrodes running in a first direction and a second group of electrodes running in a second direction, each electrode in the first group being connected to the first edges of the plurality of flakes, and each electrode in the second group being connected to the second edges of the plurality of flakes. 11. A method of sensing as in claim 10, wherein each flake of the sensor fabric further includes a third edge and a fourth edge opposite to the third edge, and the step of sensing further includes sensing a bias voltage between the third and fourth edges of each flake. 12. A method of sensing as in claim 11, wherein the flexoelectric material has a two-dimensional non-centrosymmetric lattice structure. 13. A method of sensing as in claim 12, wherein the flexoelectric material is boron nitride. 14. A method of sensing as in claim 12, wherein the flexoelectric material is boron carbon nitride. 15. A method of sensing as in claim 10, wherein the first edge is substantially parallel to the second edge. 16. A method of detecting stiffness of an object, comprising: placing a sensor fabric in contact with a surface of the object, the sensor fabric having a plurality of flakes of a flexoelectric material and a plurality of electrodes connected to the flakes, each flake having a first edge and a second edge opposite to the first edge, and a third edge and a fourth edge opposite to the third edge, and opposing surfaces defining a plane, the first, second, third and fourth edges being disposed in the plane; pressing the sensor fabric against the object surface with a first pressure; determining a first contour of the object surface under the first pressure by sensing a bias voltage between the first and second edges and a bias voltage between the third and fourth edges of each flake caused by bending of the flake; pressing the sensor fabric against the object surface with a second pressure; and determining a second contour of the object surface under the second pressure, wherein differences between the first and second contours provide an indication of the stiffness of the object wherein the electrodes connected to the flakes include a first group of electrodes running in a first direction and a second group of electrodes running in a second direction, each electrode in the first group being connected to the first edges of the plurality of flakes, and each electrode in the second group being connected to the second edges of the plurality of flakes. 17. A method of detecting stiffness as in claim 16, wherein the first edge is substantially parallel to the second edge. 