The invention concerns a method for laser ablation of a surface coating from a wall, such as a painted wall finish, for example in a nuclear plant to be decontaminated, and a device for implementing said method. The inventive ablation method includes sweeping shots on the coating of at least one pulsed laser beam with a laser beam quality factor M.sup.2 less than 20, and characterized in that it comprises a direct control of said shots by optical deflection, such that the impact zones (I1, I2, I3,) of said shots on said coating are disjointed or substantially adjacent with minimized overlapping.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An ablation method for ablating a surface layer (2) of a wall, said method comprising at least one scanning pass in which shots from at least one pulsed laser beam (6 or 6a, 6b, 6c, 6d) with a beam quality M.sup.2 of less than 20 are fired on to said layer, wherein the method includes a directional control of said shots by optical deflection by a stationary deflection head (5) with pulse durations of between 20 ns and 500 .mu.s and an energy each pulse being between 0.1 mJ and 10 mJ in such a way that the simple or composite impact zones of said shots on said layer are separate or substantially contiguous with a minimized overlap that represents less than 10% of the area of each impact zone which has a largest dimension (d) between 10 .mu.m and 500 .mu.m. 2. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that it comprises: a) a prior estimation of the fluence f.sub.0 of said or each beam on said layer required at each pulse for said or each scanning pass, by taking into account a constituent material of said layer to be ablated and the surface state of the latter, into account; then b) an adjustment of the energy of said or each beam at each pulse and/or of the largest transverse dimension of said or each pulsed beam in order to obtain said fluence f.sub.0 estimated in a). 3. The ablation method as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that it comprises, prior to step (a), said estimation of the number of said scanning passes required, by taking into account the constituent material of said layer, the thickness of the latter and the scan frequency of said shot scanning into account. 4. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the impact zone (11, 12, 13) corresponding to each of said shots is formed by an even number of laser beams (6a, 6b, 6c and 6d) that are temporally synchronized and juxtaposed by means of a prism, to create a geometric repeat pattern, the outline of each impact zone on said layer being polygonal. 5. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said stationary deflection head that is located at a distance (D) of between 200 mm and 1 m from said layer (2) to be ablated. 6. The ablation method as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that said scanning is carried out by controlling the movement of at least one galvanometric mirror housed in said deflection head (5) in order to deflect said beam or beams (6 or 6a, 6b, 6c, 6d) on to a multitude of places on said layer (2) so as to reach regions of the latter that are not yet ablated. 7. The ablation method as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that said deflection head (5) has at least two galvanometric mirrors that are controlled in such a manner that said impact zones (11, 12, 13) describe, in succession, a plurality of substantially contiguous parallel lines (L1, L2, L3, . . . , Ln, Ln+1, Ln+2, . . . ) on said layer (2), each line consisting of a series of said impact zones. 8. The ablation method as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that it carries out said scanning to describe, in succession: a first group of said lines (L1, L2, L3, . . . , Ln), separating them pairwise by a predetermined spacing corresponding substantially to said largest dimension (d) of each impact zone (11, 12, 13) on said layer (2); then a second group of said lines (Ln+1, Ln+2) which are each inserted so as to be substantially contiguous between two consecutive lines (L1 and L2, L2 and L3) of said first group. 9. The ablation method as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that a display technique is used to display the state of said layer (2) by increasing the contrast obtained by fluorescence, said technique being coupled to image processing in order to distinguish the ablation regions from those that are not ablated and consequently to control the movement of said at least one galvanometric mirror of said deflection head. 10. The ablation method as claimed in claim 5, characterized in that it comprises, during said scanning, a confinement of the space lying between said deflection head (5) and said layer (2) to be ablated, said confinement including a step of sucking out and filtering the ablation residues. 11. The ablation method as claimed in claim 2, characterized in that said fluence f.sub.0 is between 1 J/cm.sup.2 and 50 J/cm.sup.2. 12. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said shot scanning is carried out for a scan frequency of greater than 500 Hz. 13. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, said or each beam (7) being emitted by at least one laser head containing at least one laser rod pumped by transverse optical pumping, characterized in that the spherical aberration generated by the thermal effects in said laser head is corrected using, in said head, an optical device having a negative spherical aberration of amplitude close to, but of opposite sign, to the aberration due to said thermal effects, to compensate for this aberration with respect to said laser beam. 14. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, said layer (2) to be ablated being located in a cleaning zone and said or each beam (7) being emitted by at least one laser head connected to pumping means, characterized in that said or each laser head is connected to said pumping means via an optical fiber, in such a way that said pumping means are kept outside said cleaning zone. 15. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said or each laser beam (6 or 6a, 6b, 6c, 6d) is pulsed in the infrared range. 16. The ablation method as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that said or each beam (7) is emitted by a laser head (4) constituting the downstream end of a fiber laser. 17. An ablation device (1) comprising at least one laser head (4) designed to generate a pulsed laser beam (7) and a deflection head (5) fixedly mounted downstream of said or each laser head in order to deflect the shots of at least one beam (6 or 6a, 6b, 6c, 6d) on to a surface layer (2) of a wall, scanning over said layer with pulse durations that may each be between 20 ns and 500 .mu.s, characterized in that said or each laser head is suitable for generating said or each beam (7) with an energy of between 0.1 mJ and 10 mJ and in that said deflection head is suitable for deflecting said or each beam (6 or 6a, 6b, 6c, 6d) by giving it a largest transverse dimension on said layer that may be between 10 .mu.m and 500 .mu.m. 18. The ablation device (1) as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that said deflection head (5) comprises at least one galvanometric mirror that can be moved under the control of control means. 19. The ablation device (1) as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that it comprises a confinement unit (8) for confining the space lying between said layer (2) to be ablated and said deflection head (5), said confinement unit comprising ablation residue suction means (9) and filtering means (12) and being equipped with a system for positioning said device on said layer. 20. The ablation device (1) as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that said confinement unit (8) is provided with a means of displaying the state of said layer (2) which is coupled to an image processing system in order to distinguish the ablated regions from those that are not ablated and consequently to control said at least one galvanometric mirror. 21. The ablation device (1) as claimed in claim 17, characterized in that said or each laser head (4) is of the fiber laser type. 22. The ablation device (1) as claimed in claim 17, said or each laser head containing at least one laser rod pumped by transverse optical pumping, characterized in that the spherical aberration generated by the thermal effects in said laser head are connected by using, in the latter, an optical device having a negative spherical aberration of amplitude close to, but of opposite sign, the aberration due to thermal effects to compensate for this aberration with respect to said laser beam. 23. The ablation device (1) as claimed in claim 22, characterized in that said optical device having a negative spherical aberration comprises a conversion lens or a combination of several lenses, at least one of which is convergent. 24. The ablation device (1) as claimed in claim 18, characterized in that it comprises a confinement unit (8) for confining the space lying between said layer (2) to be ablated and said deflection head (5), said confinement unit comprising ablation residue suction means (9) and filtering means (12) and being equipped with a system for positioning said device on said layer. 