The present invention provides methods of detecting cancer using biomarkers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for facilitating the diagnosis of a breast cancer in a subject, comprising detecting a fibrinogen .alpha.C domain polypeptide consisting of SEQ ID No. 1, from a blood sample from said subject, wherein a decrease of said polypeptide in said sample compared to a normal control sample indicates the presence of breast cancer in said subject. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said subject has previously been treated surgically or hormonally for said cancer. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), Beta-2-microglobulin (B2M), Bladder tumor antigen (BTA), CA 15-3, CA 27.29, CA 125, CA 72-4, CA 19-9, Calcitonin, Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), Chromogranin A, Serum gamma globulin, Serum Her-2/neu, Human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), Lipid Associated Sialic Acid in Plasma (LASA-P), NMP22, Neuron-specific enolase (NSE), Prostate-specific antigen (PSA), Prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA), S-IOO, TA-90, Thyroglobulin, or Tissue polypeptide antigen (TPA). 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said subject is BRAC1 or BRAC2 positive. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said cancer is breast cancer, colon cancer, liver cancer, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, or lung cancer. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a peptide with mass to charge (m/z) ratio of about 7558, 7933, 1418 or 15168. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said fibrinogen .alpha.C domain polypeptide is detected electrophoretically, or immunochemically. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said immunochemical detection is by radio-immune assay, immunofluorescence assay or by an enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said subject has not been previously diagnosed as having cancer. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said subject has been previously diagnosed as having cancer. 11. A method of diagnosing a breast cancer in a subject comprising, detecting the presence of a fibrinogen .alpha.C domain polypeptide consisting of SEQ. ID No: 1 from a blood sample from the subject; determining the level of said fibrinogen .alpha.C domain polypeptide in said sample to provide a test value; and comparing the test value to a standard value, wherein a test value below the standard value is indicative of breast cancer. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said test value is 2 fold lower than said standard value. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said test value is 5 fold lower than said standard value. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said test value is 10 fold lower than said standard value. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is detected electrophoretically, or immunochemically. 