A system and method for reducing the number of input/output connections required to connect a microfluidic substrate to an external controller for controlling the substrate. A microfluidic processing device is fabricated on a substrate having a plurality of N independently controllable components, (e.g., a resistive heating elements) each having at least two terminals. The substrate includes a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting the substrate to an external controller, and a plurality of leads for connecting the contacts to the terminals of the components. The leads are arranged to allow the external controller to supply control signals to the terminals of the components via the contacts using substantially fewer contacts than the total number of component terminals. The components are independently controlled by arranging the leads so that each component's terminals are connected to a unique combination of contacts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a microfluidic device comprising a plurality of N independently controllable components each having at least a first terminal and a second terminal with an external controller, the method comprising: sending a first current to a first independently controllable component through a first lead connecting to a plurality of first terminals of a first group of the independently controllable components; receiving a first current from the first independently controllable component through a second lead connecting to a plurality of second terminals of a second group of independently controllable components, wherein the first current corresponds to heating of the reaction chamber; sending a second current to a second independently controllable component through a third lead connecting a plurality of first terminals of a third group of independently controllable components; and, receiving a second current from the second independently controllable component through a fourth lead connecting to a plurality of second terminals of a fourth group of independently controllable components. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second current corresponds to optical monitoring of the reaction chamber. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second current corresponds to heating of a thermally operative component. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second current corresponds to moving a microdroplet in the microfluidic device. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first independently controllable component is the only independently controllable component common to the first group and second group of independently controllable components. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the second independently controllable component is the only independently controllable component common to the third group and fourth group of independently controllable components. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first independently controllable component comprises a resistive heating element. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first independently controllable component comprises a resistive sensing element. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein one of the independently controllable components comprises a plurality of independently controllable subcomponents. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the independently controllable subcomponents each comprise a first and second terminal each connected to a lead. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling a first subcomponent, the controlling comprising: sending a first subcomponent current to the first subcomponent through the lead connected to the first terminal of the first subcomponent; and, receiving a first subcomponent current from the first subcomponent through the lead connected to the second terminal of the first subcomponent. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the lead connected to the first terminal of the first subcomponent connects to a terminal of at least one additional component or subcomponent. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the lead connected to the second terminal of the first subcomponent connects to a terminal of at least one additional component or subcomponent. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the lead connected to the first terminal of the first subcomponent and the lead connected to the second terminal of the first subcomponent only both connect the first subcomponent. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the leads comprises a current directional flow element. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the current directional flow element comprises a diode. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising periodically and intermittently sending the first current to cyclically heat the reaction chamber. 18. A system configured to perform operations on a microdroplet, the system comprising: a microfluidic device comprising: a plurality of N independently controllable components each including a first terminal and a second terminal; a plurality of leads, wherein each lead connects to two or more terminals which are each associated with a unique independently controllable component; and, a reaction chamber; and, a controller comprising stored instructions to control the operation of the independently controllable components, wherein the stored instruction comprise sending a current to a first independently controllable component corresponding to heating the reaction chamber. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the microfluidic device further comprises a current directional flow unit. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the current directional flow unit comprises a diode. 