A special purpose processor (SPP) can use a Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) to model a large number of neural elements. The FPGAs or similar programmable device can have multiple cores doing presynaptic, postsynaptic, and plasticity calculations in parallel. Each core can implement multiple neural elements of the neural model.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A special purpose processor comprising: a FPGA implementing a neural model, the neural model including multiple neural elements, the FPGA including multiple cores to implement neural elements, the cores processing data in parallel, the processing in the cores including presynaptic calculations using input values and weights, postsynaptic calculations to produce postsynaptic outputs using the results of the presynaptic calculations and plasticity calculations to modify the weights, the input values being provided to the cores by looping through a connection table to get pointers for an output storage table, the pointers indicating the inputs for the cores in a predefined order. 2. The special purpose processor of claim 1, wherein the postsynaptic outputs being provided from the cores to a output storage table in a predefined order which loops through the output storage table. 3. The special purpose processor of claims 1, wherein the weights being provided to the cores by looping through a weight table to get weights for the cores in a predefined order. 4. A brain-based device including the special purpose processor of claim 1, further comprising: at least one sensor providing inputs for the special purpose processor; and at least one actuator receiving an output from the special purpose processor, the output being the result of processing by neural elements of the neural model. 5. A brain-based device including the special purpose processor of claim 1, further comprising: multiple removable pods including at least one sensor and at least one actuator. 6. A special purpose processor comprising: a FPGA implementing a neural model, the neural model including multiple neural elements, the FPGA including multiple cores to implement neural elements, the cores processing data in parallel, the processing in the cores including presynaptic calculations using input values and weights, postsynaptic calculations to produce postsynaptic outputs using the results of the presynaptic calculations and plasticity calculations to modify the weights, the postsynaptic outputs being provided from the cores to a output storage table in a predefined order which loops through the output storage table. 7. The special purpose processor of claim 6, wherein the weights being provided to the cores by looping through a weight table to get weights for the cores in a predefined order. 8. The special purpose processor of claim 6, wherein the input values being provided to the cores by looping through a connection table to get pointers for an output storage table, the pointers indicating the inputs for the cores in a predefined order. 9. A brain-based device including the special purpose processor of claim 6, further comprising: at least one sensor providing inputs for the special purpose processor; and at least one actuator receiving an output from the special purpose processor, the output being the result of processing by neural elements of the neural model. 10. A brain-based device including the special purpose processor of claim 6, further comprising: Multiple removable pods including at least one sensor and at least one actuator. 11. A special purpose processor comprising: a FPGA implementing a neural model, the neural model including multiple neural elements, the FPGA including multiple cores to implement neural elements, the cores processing data in parallel, the processing in the cores including presynaptic calculations using input values and weights, postsynaptic calculations to produce postsynaptic outputs using the results of the presynaptic calculations and plasticity calculations to modify the weights, the weights being provided to the cores by looping through a weight table to get weights for the cores in a predefined order. 12. The special purpose processor of claim 11, wherein the input values being provided to the cores by looping through a connection table to get pointers for an output storage table, the pointers indicating the inputs for the cores in a predefined order. 13. The special purpose processor of claim 11, wherein the postsynaptic outputs being provided from the cores to a output storage table in a predefined order which loops through the output storage table. 14. A brain-based device including the special purpose processor of claim 11, further comprising: at least one sensor providing inputs for the special purpose processor; and at least one actuator receiving an output from the special purpose processor, the output being the result of processing by neural elements of the neural model. 15. A brain-based device including the special purpose processor of claim 11, further comprising: multiple removable pods including at least one sensor and at least one actuator. 