The present disclosure provides for a method for analyzing treated fingerprints on a document. A sample document is provided. A digital image of the sample document is obtained. The sample document is treated with a reagent and a hyperspectral image of the document is obtained. The hyperspectral image of the document is analyzed to determine a region of interest and a hyperspectal image is obtained of the region of interest. The present disclosure also provides for a system comprising a carrier frame, an imaging station for obtaining a digital image of the sample document, a first processing station for treating the document and a second processing station for developing the treated document, a second imaging station for obtaining a hyperspectral image of at least one of the document and a region of interest of the document, and a robotic subsystem for transporting the document through the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising the steps of: (a) providing a sample document; (b) obtaining a digital image of said sample document; (c) treating said sample document with ninhydrin; (d) illuminating said sample document to thereby produce a first plurality of interacted photons wherein said first plurality of interacted photons are selected from the group consisting of: photons scattered by said sample document, photons reflected by said sample document, photons absorbed by said sample document, photons emitted by said sample document, and combinations thereof; assessing said first plurality of interacted photons to thereby generate a hyperspectral image representative of said sample document; (e) analyzing said hyperspectral image to thereby identify at least one region of interest of said sample document; and (f) obtaining a hyperspectral image of at least one of said regions of interest, wherein steps (b)-(d) are automated using robotics. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said hyperspectral image comprises an image and a fully resolved spectrum unique to the material for each pixel location in said image. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said hyperspectral image comprises a visible hyperspectral image. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said digital image comprises a color digital image. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising passing said first plurality of interacted photons through a tunable filter wherein said filter is selected from the group consisting of: a multi-conjugate tunable filter, a liquid crystal tunable filter, acousto-optical tunable filters, Lyot liquid crystal tunable filter, Evans Split-Element liquid crystal tunable filter, Solc liquid crystal tunable filter, Ferroelectric liquid crystal tunable filter, Fabry Perot liquid crystal tunable filter, and combinations thereof. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said reagent comprises ninhydrin. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising assigning an identifying mark to at least one of said digital image, said hyperspectral image representative of said sample document, said hyperspectral image representative of said region of interest, and combinations thereof. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said identifying mark comprises a barcode. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising analyzing said hyperspectral image representative of said region of interest to thereby determine at least one of: the presence of at least a portion of a fingerprint and the absence of at least a portion of a fingerprint. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said region of interest of said document comprises an area of said document exhibiting high color contrast with respect to the rest of the document in response to said reagent. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said region of interest comprises at least a portion of at least one latent fingerprint. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising comparing at least one of a detected fingerprint, a portion of a detected fingerprint, and combinations thereof, to a reference data base comprising at least one reference fingerprint. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein each reference fingerprint in said reference data base is associated with a known individual. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein if said comparison results in a match, correlating the detected fingerprint with the individual associated with the reference fingerprint. 15. A system comprising: a first imaging station for obtaining a digital image representative of a sample document; a first processing station for treating said document with ninhydrin to thereby produce a treated document; a second processing station for developing said treated document; a second, imaging station for obtaining a hyperspectral image representative of at least one of: said document, a region of interest of said document, and combinations thereof; and a robotic subsystem for transporting said document through said system. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising a means for mounting a sample document under analysis. 17. The system of claim 15 wherein said first imaging station and said second imaging station are the same. 18. The system of claim 15 wherein said first imaging station comprises: an illumination source for illuminating said document to thereby generate a first plurality of interacted photons; a collection optics for collecting said first plurality of interacted photons; and a detector for detecting said first plurality of interacted photons and generating a digital image representative of said document. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein said illumination source comprises a broadband white light source. 20. The system of claim 15 wherein said second imaging station comprises: an illumination source for illuminating at least one of said document and a region of interest to thereby generate a second plurality of interacted photons; a collection optics for collecting said second plurality of interacted photons; a tunable filter through which said second plurality of interacted photons are passed; a detector for detecting said second plurality of interacted photons to thereby generate a hyperspectral image representative of at least one of: said document, said region of interest of said document, and combinations thereof. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein said collection optics comprises a zoon lens. 22. The system of claim 20 wherein said tunable filter is selected from the group consisting of: a multi-conjugate tunable filter, a liquid crystal tunable filter, acousto-optical tunable filters, Lyot liquid crystal tunable filter, Evans Split-Element liquid crystal tunable filter, Solc liquid crystal tunable filter, Ferroelectric liquid crystal tunable filter, Fabry Perot liquid crystal tunable filter, and combinations thereof. 23. The system of claim 20 wherein said illumination source comprises a broadband white light source. 24. The system of claim 15 further comprising a computer control system for controlling the operation of said system. 25. The system of claim 15 further comprising a at least one image data base wherein said image data base comprises at least one of: a digital image representative of said document, a hypserpsectral image representative of said document, a hyperspectral image representative of a region of interest of said document, and combinations thereof. 26. The system of claim 15 further comprising a means for associating two or more of said digital image representative of said document, said hyperspectral image representative of said document, and said hyperspectral image representative of said region of interest of said document. 27. The system of claim 15 wherein environmental conditions present in said second processing station are controlled to thereby accelerate development of said document. 28. The system of claim 15 further comprising a reference data base comprising at least one reference fingerprint wherein said reference fingerprint is associated with a known individual. 29. The system of claim 28 further comprising a means for comparing a detected fingerprint on said sample document with said at least one reference fingerprint. 