An actuator having a two-parameters energy converter is coupled to a transducer and is driven by a controller. Prior to assembly and operation of the actuator, a calibration procedure is performed. The calibration procedure, together with the unique controller, enable accurate control of the output parameters of the actuator. In one example, the parameters are rate and force, and the calibration and controller enable accurate control of the rate and force at the output of the actuator by measuring only the rate at the output of the energy converter. Consequently, no sensors are needed at the output of the actuator, i.e., at the output of the transducer, where the load is applied.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating an actuator comprising an energy converter and a transducer, the energy converter being characterized by a first and a second interrelated parameters and the transducer being characterized by a transducing ratio, the method comprising: coupling a first sensor to the output of the energy converter to measure values of the first and second interrelated parameters; operating the energy converter by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; constructing at least one interrelated parameters curve using outputs provided by the first sensor; coupling the transducer to the energy converter to thereby form the actuator; coupling a second sensor to the output of the transducer; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; constructing an internal losses model of the actuator using outputs provided by the second sensor; coupling a static load to output of the transducer; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; and, obtaining static load calibration to obtain external loses model of the actuator. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein constructing at least one interrelated parameters curve comprises constructing a plurality of curves, each curve enabling a defined operational mode of the energy converter. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second interrelated parameter comprise rate and force. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein rate comprises speed and force comprises moment. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second interrelated parameters comprise velocity and moment. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein each of the first and second sensors comprises velocity-moment sensor. 7. A method for calibrating an actuator comprising a machine and a transmission, the machine comprising an energy converter and the transmission comprising a velocity and moment transducer having a transmission ratio, the method comprising: coupling velocity and moment sensors to the output of the machine; operating the machine by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; constructing velocity-moment curves characteristic of the machine using outputs provided by the velocity and moment sensors coupled to the machine; coupling the transmission to the machine to thereby form the actuator; coupling velocity and moment sensors to the output of the transmission; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; constructing an internal losses model of the actuator using outputs provided by the velocity and moment sensors coupled to the transmission; coupling a static load to output of the transmission; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; and, obtaining static load calibration to obtain external loses model of the actuator. 8. A method of operating an actuator operating on a load, the actuator comprising an energy converter and a transducer, the energy converter being characterized by a first parameter and a second parameter, the first and second parameters being interrelated, and the transducer being characterized by a transducing ratio, the method comprising: using a processor, measuring current value of the first parameter; using the measured current value to obtain current value of the second parameter from pre-established parameters curves; calculating transduced value of the first parameter using the current value of the first parameter and the transducing ratio; calculating transduced value of the second parameter using the transduced value of the first parameter; predicting actual value of the transduced value of the first parameter using an internal loses model; predicting actual value of the transduced value of the second parameter using the actual value of the transduced value of the first parameter, the internal loses model and an external loses model. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first parameter comprises rate of change and the second parameter comprises magnitude of force. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the first parameter comprises speed and the second parameter comprise moment. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein using the measured current value to obtain current value of the second parameter comprises: prior to operating the actuator, performing a calibration step comprising: coupling a first sensor to the output of the energy converter to measure values of the first and second parameters; operating the energy converter by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; constructing at least one interrelated parameters curve using outputs provided by the first sensor. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the calibration step further comprises: coupling the transducer to the energy converter to thereby form the actuator; coupling a second sensor to the output of the transducer; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; constructing an internal losses model of the actuator using outputs provided by the second sensor; coupling a static load to output of the transducer; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; and, obtaining static load calibration to obtain external loses model of the actuator. 13. A method for controlling an actuator operating on an arbitrary load, the actuator comprising an energy converter and a transducer, the method comprising: performing converter calibration of the energy converter operating independently of the transducer; performing actuator calibration of the actuator operating without a load; performing static load calibration of the actuator operating with applied static load; and, using the converter calibration, actuator calibration, and static load calibration to form a feedback loop to control operation of the actuator on the arbitrary load. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein performing converter calibration comprises: coupling rate and force sensors to the output or the energy converter; operating the converter by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; and, constructing rate-force curves characteristic of the energy converter using outputs provided by the rate and force sensors coupled to the energy converter. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein performing actuator calibration comprises: coupling the transducer to the energy converter to thereby form the actuator; coupling rate and force sensors to the output of the transducer; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; and, constructing an internal losses model of the actuator using outputs provided by the rate and force sensors coupled to the transducer. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein performing static load calibration comprises: coupling a static load to output of the transducer; operating the actuator by providing a plurality of activation signals of different values; and, obtaining static load calibration to obtain external loses model of the actuator. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein using the converter calibration comprises: measuring rate of change at the output of the converter; and, using the measured rate of change to obtain converter force from the pre-established rate-force curves. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein using the actuator calibration comprises: calculating transducer rate of change using converter rate of change and transducer ratio; and, using the actuator calibration to introduce internal loses values to the transducer rate of change. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein using the static load calibration comprises: calculating transducer rate of change using converter rate of change and transducer ratio; and, using the static load calibration to introduce external loses to the transducer rate of change. 20. An actuator comprising: an energy converter characterized by a first parameter and a second parameter, the first and second parameters being interrelated; a sensor coupled to the output of the energy converter and measuring magnitude of the first parameter; a transducer being characterized by a transducing ratio; a controller comprising: converter calibration module storing curves interrelating the first and second parameters; internal loses model; external loses model; feedback loop receiving the magnitude of the first parameter from the sensor and utilizing the magnitude of the first parameter, transducing ratio, internal loses model and external loses model to calculate control signal to drive the energy converter, wherein the feedback loop performs the operations: using the measured magnitude of the first parameter to obtain current value of the second parameter from the converter calibration module; calculating transduced value of the first parameter using the magnitude of the first parameter and the transducing ratio; calculating transduced value of the second parameter using the transduced value of the first parameter; predicting actual value of the first parameter using the internal loses model; predicting actual value of the transduced value of the second parameter using the actual value of the first parameter, the internal loses model and the external loses model. 