Methods and apparatus for rapid thermal processing of a planar substrate including axially aligning the substrate with a substrate support or with an empirically determined position are described. The methods and apparatus include a sensor system that determines the relative orientations of the substrate and the substrate support.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rapid thermal processing apparatus for processing a planar substrate, the apparatus comprising: a chamber including a heat source; a first substrate support to hold the substrate in the chamber in a first position; a second substrate support in a second position to hold the substrate during thermal processing, the second substrate support being movable in a direction to place the substrate closer to and further from the heat source; a sensor to sense the position of the substrate relative to the second substrate support, the sensor comprising, a light source to direct light onto a surface of the substrate, an optical detector to monitor an intensity of light reflected from the surface of the substrate, and an electronic controller in communication with the optical detector, the electronic controller generating a plurality of measurements from reflections detected by the detector to calculate a location on the substrate surface where a reflection occurred, including determining which of the measurements corresponds to an edge of the substrate; and an actuator in communication with the sensor to change the position of the substrate relative to the axial position of the second substrate support. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor evaluates a shadow cast by either the second substrate support on the substrate or the substrate on the second substrate support to detect the position of the substrate relative to the position of the second substrate support. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a camera, an illumination system and a vision image analysis system which detects centers of the second substrate support and substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a chamber lid and at least two position sensors, the at least two position sensors being located on the chamber lid, and a reflective light beam may optionally be transmitted from the at least two sensors through the chamber lid. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising liquid or gas jets positioned adjacent the substrate to move the substrate in a plurality of axial directions. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of positioning rods to contact the edge of the substrate to push the substrate in a plurality of directions within the plane of the substrate, the positioning rods oriented in the same plane as the substrate. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second substrate support comprises an edge ring including an alignment mark on an inner surface of the substrate support to be aligned with a corresponding alignment mark on the substrate. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first substrate support is selected from a robot blade and a lift pin assembly and the second substrate support is an edge ring. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second substrate support is coupled to a magnetically levitated rotor. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a magnetic field generating device to move the levitated rotor in a plurality of axial directions within the plane of the substrate, the magnetic field generating device coupled to the magnetically levitated rotor. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a system controller to obtain position signals from the sensor and to send a signal to one or more electromagnets to adjust the position of the second substrate support relative to the substrate. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a plurality of positioning rods positioned to contact the second substrate support or the magnetically levitated rotor to push the second substrate support or the magnetically levitated rotor in a plurality of directions parallel to the plane of the substrate. 