Methods for cleaning a surface of a substrate and for increasing the useable lifetime of a photomask substrate are provided. In one method, a substrate has at least one radiation-produced particle disposed thereon, and a laser that has a wavelength that substantially coincides with a high absorption coefficient of the substrate is directed towards the substrate. A thermal increase is generated in the substrate, and the radiation-produced particle is removed from the substrate by transferring thermal energy from the substrate to the radiation-produced particle until the radiation-produced particle decomposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning a surface of a substrate, comprising: directing a laser towards a substrate having an absorption spectrum with at least one local maximum and at least one radiation-produced particle disposed thereon, the laser having an infrared wavelength that is substantially the same as the local maximum of the substrate absorption spectrum; generating a thermal increase in the substrate; and removing the radiation-produced particle from the substrate by transferring thermal energy from the substrate to the radiation-produced particle until the radiation-produced particle decomposes. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing the laser through a protective material positioned above the substrate. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate is at least partially enclosed within a pellicle and the protective material is a pellicle film. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein laser wavelength is above 8 micrometers. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said removing the radiation-produced particle includes laser absorption by the particle. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate includes at least one thin film layer. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the thin film layer is patterned and includes void areas under which respective portions of the substrate are exposed. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising maintaining a temperature of the substrate below a threshold temperature to prevent damage thereto. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate includes at least two materials and the laser wavelength is substantially the same as a local maximum of the absorption spectrum of one of the materials. 10. A method for increasing the useable lifetime of a photomask substrate, comprising: directing electromagnetic radiation through a protective material towards a photomask substrate having an absorption spectrum with at least one local maximum and radiation-produced particle contamination, the electromagnetic radiation having an infrared wavelength that is substantially the same as the local maximum of the photomask substrate absorption spectrum; generating a thermal increase in the photomask substrate; and removing at least a portion of the radiation-produced particle contamination by transferring thermal energy from the photomask substrate to the radiation-produced particle contamination until the radiation-produced particle contamination decomposes. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the photomask substrate is at least partially enclosed within a pellicle and the protective material is a pellicle film. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the substrate is quartz and the electromagnetic radiation wavelength is about 9 micrometers. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein said removing at least a portion of the radiation-produced particle contamination includes energy absorption by the particle contamination. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the photomask substrate includes at least one thin film layer. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the thin film layer is patterned and includes voids under which respective portions of the photomask substrate are exposed. 16. The method of claim 10, further comprising maintaining a temperature of the photomask substrate below a threshold temperature to prevent damage thereto. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the substrate includes at least two materials and the electromagnetic radiation wavelength is substantially the same as a local maximum of the absorption spectrum of one of the materials. 18. A method for cleaning a surface of a substrate at least partially enclosed within a pellicle, comprising: directing a laser through a pellicle film towards a substrate having an absorption spectrum with at least one local maximum and a contaminating particle layer disposed thereon, the laser having an infrared wavelength that is substantially the same as the local maximum of the substrate absorption spectrum; generating a thermal increase in the substrate; and removing at least a portion of the contaminating particle layer from the substrate by transferring thermal energy from the substrate to the contaminating particle layer until the contaminating particle layer portion decomposes. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the contaminating layer is a haze layer. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the haze layer is an ammonium sulfate haze layer. 