In a minimally invasive surgical system, a camera includes a prismatic element having a lens within the prismatic element. The lens corrects the resulting image focus for the non-visible light to make it substantially the same as the focus for the visible light. Alternatively, the lens corrects the resulting image focus for the visible light to make it substantially the same as the focus for the non-visible light.
Claims I claim: 1. A method comprising: receiving, from a minimally invasive surgical instrument, light including visible light and non-visible light; separating the visible light from the non-visible light; passing one of the visible light and the non-visible light through a first optical path; passing an other of the visible light and the non-visible light through a second optical path, wherein the second optical path comprises a lens, wherein the first optical path does not pass through the lens, and wherein the lens corrects a focus of an image formed from the one of the visible light and the non-visible light so that the focus of the image is about the same as a focus of another image formed from the other of the visible light and the non-visible light; and recombining the one of the visible light and the non-visible light from the lens with the other of the visible light and the non-visible light. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: focusing the recombined visible and non-visible light with a focus lens group. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the separating further comprises: passing the visible light and the non-visible light onto a first surface having a pass, reflect surface coating, wherein the other of the visible light and the non-visible light passes through the surface coating and the one of the visible light and the non-visible light is reflected by the surface coating to produce first reflected light. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the separating further comprises: passing the first reflected light onto a second surface having a second surface coating, wherein the first reflected light is reflected by the second surface coating to produce second reflected light. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the passing one of the visible light and the non-visible light through a lens further comprises passing the second reflected light through the lens. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-visible light is included in fluorescence. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the fluorescence comprises light in the near infrared spectrum. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein a diffractive element is used in place of the lens. 9. A minimally invasive surgical system comprising: a camera including a prismatic element, wherein the prismatic element comprises a first optical path and a second optical path, wherein the second optical path comprises a lens within the prismatic element, wherein the first optical path does not pass through the lens, and wherein the lens corrects a focus of an image formed from one of visible light and non-visible light so that the focus of the image is about the same as a focus of another image formed from an other of the visible light and non-visible light that passes through the prismatic element along the first optical path. 10. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 9, wherein the prismatic element further comprises: a first surface having a pass, reflect coating, wherein the coating passes the other of the visible light and the non-visible light through the coating, and reflects the one of the visible light and non-visible light. 11. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 10, wherein the prismatic element further comprises: a second surface, opposite and removed from the first surface, having a reflect coating. 12. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 10, wherein the prismatic element further comprises: a third surface, different from the first surface, having the pass, reflect coating. 13. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 9, wherein the prismatic element includes a plurality of prisms. 14. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 13, wherein the lens is formed in faces of two adjacent prisms in the plurality of prisms. 15. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 9, wherein the non-visible spectrum light is included in fluorescence. 16. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 15, wherein the fluorescence comprises light in the near infrared spectrum. 17. A minimally invasive surgical system comprising: a camera comprising an imaging plane; and a focus correction assembly comprising: a first optical path, a second optical path comprising a lens, a common start location, and a common end location; wherein a length of the second optical path is longer than a length of the first optical path: wherein the first optical path does not pass through the lens; and wherein the focus correction assembly is configured and positioned with reference to the camera so that light in a first spectrum that passes from the start location through the first optical path to the end location and light in a second spectrum that passes from the start location through the second optical path to the end location are both focused on the imaging plane to form a visible image and an non-visible image that are substantially in focus on the imaging plane. 18. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 17, wherein the first optical path is straight and the second optical path is folded. 19. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 17, wherein the second optical path is defined in part by a first surface that passes the first spectrum and reflects the second spectrum. 20. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 17, wherein the first spectrum comprises at least a portion of the visible spectrum, and wherein the second spectrum comprises at least a portion of the infrared spectrum. 21. The minimally invasive surgical system of claim 17, wherein the second spectrum is a narrow band spectrum that corresponds to a fluorescence emission spectrum of a medical fluorophore. 22. A method comprising: receiving, from a minimally invasive surgical instrument, light including visible light and non-visible light; separating the visible light from the non-visible light; passing one of the visible light and the non-visible light through a first optical path; passing an other of the visible light and the non-visible light through a second optical path, wherein the second optical path comprises a lens, wherein the first optical path does not pass through the lens, and wherein the lens modifies aberrations of an image formed from the one of the visible light and the non-visible light so that a focus of the image is about the same as a focus of another image formed from the other of the visible light and the non-visible light; and recombining the one of the visible light and the non-visible light from the lens with the other of the visible light and the non-visible light. 