A method for prognosing osteoporosis phenotypes or estimating osteoporosis quantitative traits comprising determining outcomes for selected SNP variables and clinical variables. Products and methods for genotyping multiple osteoporosis associated genetic variations.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of prognosing an osteoporosis phenotype in a subject, which comprises: (I) determining in a biological sample from the subject the genotype of the subject at one or more positions of single nucleotide polymorphism, thereby obtaining outcomes for one or more single nucleotide polymorphism variables, and determining one or more clinical variables for the subject; and (II) using the variable outcomes obtained in (I) to prognose the phenotype; wherein: (a) the osteoporosis phenotype is a presence of one or more non-traumatic fractures in the wrist, hip or spine (WSHfractures) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the general BSTEP model variables in FIG. 9; and/or (b) the osteoporosis phenotype is a presence of one or more non-traumatic fractures in the wrist, hip or spine (WSHfractures) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the general FSTEP model variables in FIG. 9; and/or (c) the osteoporosis phenotype is a presence of one or more non-traumatic fractures in the wrist, hip or spine (WSHfractures) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained In step (I) comprise the male BSTEP model variables in FIG. 9; and/or (d) the osteoporosis phenotype is a presence of one or more non-traumatic fractures in the wrist, hip or spine (WSHfractures) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the male FSTEP model variables In FIG. 9; and/or (e) the osteoporosis phenotype is a presence of one or more non-traumatic fractures in the wrist, hip or spine (WSHfractures) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the female BSTEP model variables in FIG. 9; and/or (f) the osteoporosis phenotype is a presence of one or more non-traumatic fractures in the wrist, hip or spine (WSHfractures) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the female FSTEP model variables in FIG. 9; and/or (g) the osteoporosis phenotype is presence of one or more non-traumatic vertebral fractures and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the male vertebral fractures variables or the female vertebral fractures variables in Table 5; and wherein (i) an outcome for an SNP variable is the identity of the nucleotide in the genomic DNA of the subject at the position of the single nucleotide polymorphism; (ii) an outcome for the clinical variable AGE is age of the subject in years; (iii) an outcome for the clinical variable MENOPAUSE AGE is the age in years of the onset of menopause in a female subject; (iv) an outcome for the clinical variable MENARCHE AGE is the age in years of the onset of menarche in a female subject; (v) an outcome for the clinical variable BMI is the body mass index of the subject. 2. A method of estimating an osteoporosis quantitative trait in a subject, which comprises: (I) determining in a biological sample from a subject the genotype of the subject at one or more positions of single nucleotide polymorphism, thereby obtaining outcomes for one or more single nucleotide polymorphism variables, and determining one or more clinical variables for the subject; and (II) using the variable outcomes obtained in (I) to estimate the trait; wherein: (a) the quantitative trait is lumbar spine bone mineral density (LSBMD) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the male or female LSBMD variables in Table 5; and/or (b) the quantitative trait is femoral neck bone mineral density (FNBMD) and the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) comprise the male or female FNBMD variables in Table 5; and wherein (i) an outcome for an SNP variable is the identity of the nucleotide in the genomic DNA of the subject at the position of the single nucleotide polymorphism; (ii) an outcome for the clinical variable AGE is age of the subject in years; (iii) an outcome for the clinical variable MENOPAUSE AGE is the age in years of the onset of menopause in a female subject; (iv) an outcome for the clinical variable MENARCHE AGE is the age in years of the onset of menarche in a female subject; (v) an outcome for the clinical variable BMI is the body mass index of the subject. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein in any of (a) to (g) the variables for which outcomes are obtained in step (I) consist of the SNP and clinical variables listed in FIG. 9 for the model or in Table 5 for the phenotype. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein in step (II), only the outcomes obtained in step (I) are used to prognose the phenotype or estimate the trait. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein obtaining outcomes for SNP variables comprises microarray analysis or sequencing. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein obtaining outcomes for SNP variables comprises the use of one or more oligonucleotide probe pairs or probe sets listed in FIG. 2A, 2B or 2C. 7. A method according to claim 1 which comprises use of one or more oligonucleotide primer pairs listed in FIG. 3A, 3B or 3C. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein step (II) comprises: (i) inputting the outcomes determined in step (I) into a probability function or quantitative function thereby calculating a probability function value or a quantitative function value; and (ii) where a probability function value is obtained, comparing the probability function value with probability function values calculated for individuals of known phenotype. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein in any of (a) to (g) the variables for which outcomes are obtained consist of the SNP variables and clinical variables listed in FIG. 9 for the model or in Table 5 for the phenotype. 10. A method according to claim 1 comprising use of a probability function derived using the data in any of FIGS. 17A, 17B, 18A, 18B, 19A or 19B. 11. A method of selecting a suitable treatment for treating osteoporosis in a subject, the method comprising: (a) prognosing an osteoporosis phenotype in the subject by a method according to claim 1; and (b) selecting a treatment which is suitable for the determined osteoporosis phenotype or trait. 12. A method of treating osteoporosis in a subject comprising: (a) prognosing an osteoporosis phenotype in the subject by a method according to claim 1; and (b) administering to the subject a treatment which is suitable for the determined osteoporosis phenotype or trait. 