A system for automatically reproducing an image on a large surface, such as the surface of an outdoor or indoor athletic field or athletic court. The system includes a computer, a microcontroller, a mobile robotic platform, a plurality of distance sensors, a plurality of boundary markers, and image reproduction machinery. The computer takes the image input by the user and translates for use by the microcontroller. The distance sensors use the boundary markers to provide positioning information to the microcontroller. The microcontroller is used to control motors and sensors on the mobile robotic platform and image reproduction machinery. The mobile robotic platform propels and steers the system along the surface. The image production machinery comprises a guide rail, a carriage, and a paint head assembly which reproduce the image onto a large surface. The movement of the image production machinery is decoupled from the movement of the mobile robotic platform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An image reproduction system, for painting an image on a surface, comprising: (a) a mobile robotic platform; (b) image reproduction machinery, comprising a guide rail mounted on the robotic platform, an arm mounted on and extending outward from the guide rail, whereby the arm is moveable along the guide rail, and a paint head assembly mounted on the arm, whereby the paint head assembly is moveable along the arm, and the image reproduction machinery is configured to provide movement of the paint head assembly in both the x axis and y axis of a plane overlaying the surface to be painted, independent of the movement of the robotic platform; (c) a plurality of motors for controlling movement of the mobile robotic platform, movement of the arm along the guide rail and movement of the paint head assembly along the arm; (d) a plurality of paint reservoirs positioned on the robotic platform and connected to the paint head assembly; and (e) a microcontroller for controlling the motors and operation of the paint head assembly. 2. The image reproduction system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of boundary markers positioned on the surface to be painted and a positioning sensor located on the mobile robotic platform or image reproduction machinery, whereby the positioning sensor provides positioning information of the mobile robotic platform or the image reproduction machinery for use by the microcontroller. 3. The image reproduction system of claim 2, wherein the sensor is positioned on the paint head assembly. 4. The image reproduction system of claim 1, wherein the arm extends perpendicularly from the guide rail and parallel to the surface to be painted. 5. The image reproduction system of claim 1, further comprising a guide rail angle adjuster mounted on the robotic platform and connected to the guide rail for adjusting the orientation of the guide rail relative to the robotic platform and the surface to be painted, whereby the guide rail is pivoted parallel to the surface. 6. The image reproduction system of claim 1, wherein the robotic platform is propelled by a plurality of wheels. 7. The image reproduction system of claim 1, wherein the paint head assembly is rotatably mounted on the arm, such that the paint head assembly can rotate in either direction. 8. The image reproduction system of claim 1, wherein the paint head assembly comprises a plurality of nozzles, with each nozzle connected to one of the paint reservoirs. 9. The image reproduction system of claim 1, wherein the paint head assembly comprises a nozzle and the nozzle is adjustable vertically to vary the distance from the surface to be painted. 10. The image reproduction of claim 1, further comprising a computer for receiving input of an image to be reproduced and communicating with the microcontroller. 11. The image reproduction system of claim 1, wherein the microcontroller comprises image data for controlling the image reproduction machinery and the motors. 12. An image reproduction system, for painting an image on a surface, comprising: (a) a self-propelled, mobile, robotic platform; (b) image reproduction machinery, comprising a guide rail mounted on the robotic platform, an arm mounted on and extending outward from the guide rail, whereby the arm is moveable along the guide rail, and a paint head assembly mounted on the arm, whereby the paint head assembly is moveable along the arm, and the image reproduction machinery is configured to provide movement of the paint head assembly in both the x axis and y axis of a plane overlaying and parallel to the surface to be painted, independent of the movement of the robotic platform; (c) a plurality of motors for controlling movement of the mobile robotic platform, movement of the arm along the guide rail and movement of the paint head assembly along the arm, wherein the motors are supported by the robotic platform; (d) a plurality of pressurized paint reservoirs positioned on the robotic platform and connected to the paint head assembly; (e) a microcontroller for controlling the motors and operation of the paint head assembly, supported by the robotic platform; and (f) a plurality of boundary markers positioned on the surface to be painted and a positioning sensor located on the mobile robotic platform or image reproduction machinery, whereby the positioning sensor provides positioning information of the mobile robotic platform or the image reproduction machinery for use by the microcontroller. 13. The image reproduction system of claim 12, wherein the boundary markers are reflectors and the positioning sensor is positioned on the paint head assembly. 14. The image reproduction system of claim 12, further comprising a guide rail angle adjuster mounted on the robotic platform and connected to the guide rail for adjusting the orientation of the guide rail relative to the robotic platform and the surface to be painted, whereby the guide rail is pivoted parallel to the surface. 15. The image reproduction system of claim 12, wherein the paint head assembly comprises a plurality of nozzles, with each nozzle connected to one of the paint reservoirs and the nozzles are adjustable vertically to vary the distance from the surface to be painted. 16. The image reproduction system of claim 12, wherein the arm extends perpendicularly from the guide rail and parallel to the surface to be painted. 17. The image reproduction of claim 12, further comprising a computer for receiving input of an image to be reproduced and communicating with the microcontroller. 18. The image reproduction system of claim 12, wherein the robotic platform is propelled by a plurality of wheels. 19. The image reproduction system of claim 12, wherein the paint head assembly is rotatably mounted on the arm, such that the paint head assembly can rotate in either direction. 20. The image reproduction system of claim 12, wherein the microcontroller comprises image data for controlling the image reproduction machinery and the motors. 