A human-machine interface system adapted to track movement of an object in air is disclosed. In one aspect, the human-machine interface includes an acoustic transmitter, an acoustic receiver, and logic configured to apply a calculated inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted by the acoustic transmitter to a signal received by the acoustic receiver, wherein movement of the object is used to control the machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A human-machine interface system adapted to track movement of an object in air wherein said human-machine interface comprises: an acoustic transmitter; an acoustic receiver; and logic configured to apply a calculated inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted by the acoustic transmitter to a signal received by the acoustic receiver, wherein movement of the object is used to control the machine. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transmitter is configured to transmit said impulse signal at regular intervals. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said transmitter is configured to transmit said impulse signal continuously. 4. The system as claimed in claim 1 comprising logic for calculating said inverse matrix. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the calculated inverse matrix comprises a ridge inverse matrix. 6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the calculated inverse matrix comprises a Moore-Penrose inverse matrix. 7. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to sample the received signal using a sliding window. 8. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to generate the impulse signal from a non-repeating code. 9. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to generate the impulse signal from a code having at least some respective portions linearly independent of one another. 10. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the impulse signal comprises substantially white noise. 11. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to generate the impulse signal with a bandwidth which is a fraction of the bandwidth of the transmitter and receiver subsystem. 12. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to select a subset of rows and/or columns of the inverse matrix to calculate. 13. The system as claimed in claim 12 comprising logic configured to interpolate between the subset of rows and/or columns in the calculated inverse matrix. 14. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to decompose the calculated inverse matrix into a pair of matrices derived from a subset of a singular value decomposition of the impulse signal matrix. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14, further comprising logic configured to select a subset of samples of the received signal to produce a subset vector and multiplying the pair of matrices by the subset vector. 16. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to construct a position diagram based on an estimated channel response resulting from applying the calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the return signal. 17. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of transmitters configured to be driven by respective signals from the same frequency band; the receiver being configured to separate the respective received signals. 18. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to combine a plurality of estimated channel responses using ellipse or ellipsoid intersection. 19. The system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising logic configured to sample the impulse signal and the received response signal at the same rate. 20. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 1. 21. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to operate a human-machine interface which tracks movement of an object in air wherein said human-machine interface comprises: an acoustic transmitter; an acoustic receiver; said instructions including logic configured to apply a calculated inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted by the acoustic transmitter to a signal received by the acoustic receiver, wherein movement of the object is used to control the machine. 