A robotic harvester has a mobile platform. A programmable multi-axis robot arm is connected to the platform. The robot arm is mounted to a computer controller. A stereovision camera connected to the computer is mounted on the mobile platform. The camera views the area under the mobile platform and identifies objects in geometric coordinates. The robot arm is directed to the location of the object and a gripper on the robot arm grasps the object. The stem is separated from the object and the object is deposited on a sorting conveyor. The harvester is incrementally moved. A method of harvesting is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic harvester comprising a mobile platform with a power source, a programmable multi-axis robot arm connected to the robotic harvester, a master controller connected to the robotic arm, a stereovision camera mounted on the mobile platform, the master controller being a computer having software programmed to control the robot arm to relate the stereovision camera to the robot arm; a hood that covers the stereovision camera and its field of view; a gripper attached to the robot arm and controllable by the computer, wherein the stereovision camera, with a single measurement, locates and identifies an object in geometric 3D coordinates, the computer directing the robot arm to the object using the geometric coordinates and the gripper grasping the object and removing the object; wherein the gripper has a plurality of spaced-apart removable fingers, each finger having a pivotable finger tip, the finger tips being rotatable toward each other; the object being grasped between the fingers of the gripper, the object having a stem attached thereto, the stem of the object being disposed and held between two of the fingers wherein stem tension is measurable and wherein movement of the robot arm is able to separate the stem from the object; and wherein at least one retaining wall is formed on the fingers of the gripper. 2. The robot harvester of claim 1, wherein the robot arm is moved sideways with respect to the stem to separate the stem from the object. 3. The robotic harvester of claim 1, wherein a piston plunger is connected to a base of the gripper at a predetermined tension, the piston plunger is activated to pin the object within the gripper. 4. The robotic harvester of claim 1, further comprising a leaf canopy spreader to move foliage on a plant to provide access to the fruit, the leaf canopy spreader having a pair of parallel horizontal bars mounted by the platform of the robotic harvester, the bars being spaced apart horizontally to push aside the foliage to expose the fruit for the gripper to grasp. 5. A robotic harvester comprising a mobile platform with a power source, a programmable multi-axis robot arm connected to the robotic harvester, a master controller connected to the robotic arm, a stereovision camera mounted on the mobile platform, the master controller being a computer having software programmed to control the robot arm to relate the stereovision camera to the robot arm; a hood that covers the stereovision camera and its field of view; a gripper attached to the robot arm and controllable by the computer, wherein the stereovision camera, with a single measurement, locates and identifies an object in geometric 3D coordinates, the computer directing the robot arm to the object using the geometric coordinates and the gripper grasping the object and removing the object; wherein the gripper has a plurality of spaced-apart removable fingers, each finger having a pivotable finger tip, the finger tips being rotatable toward each other; the object being grasped between the fingers of the gripper, the object having a stem attached thereto, the stem of the object being disposed and held between two of the fingers wherein stem tension is measured and wherein movement of the robot arm separates the stem from the object; wherein at least one retaining wall is formed on the fingers of the gripper; and further comprising a leaf canopy spreader to move foliage on a plant to provide access to the fruit, the leaf canopy spreader having a pair of parallel horizontal bars mounted by the platform of the robotic harvester, the bars being spaced apart horizontally to push aside the foliage to expose the fruit for the gripper to grasp. 6. The robotic harvester of claim 1, wherein the computer has a program to advance the mobile platform in programmable incremental steps, and the robotic harvester has a brake to ensure precise stopping and a motion tracking sensor to assure the advancement and stopping of the robotic harvester. 7. A method of harvesting crops substantially comprising the steps of: a) providing a mobile platform with a power source, a programmable multi-axis mobile arm having a gripper with fingers connected to the mobile platform, a stereovision camera mounted on the mobile platform, a computer having software programmed to control the robot arm and the gripper and to relate the stereovision camera to the robot arm; b) recording a single stereo image in 3D space of a region under the platform; c) using the software to analyze the image to determine if objects meeting certain criteria exist within the regions; d) using the software to calculate XYZ coordinates of the location of each recognized object; e) moving the robot arm to scoop the recognized object into the gripper and closing the fingers on the gripper to retain the recognized object; f) raising the recognized object a predetermined height and measuring the tension on a stem attached to the recognized object; g) moving a piston plunger within the gripper to forcibly retain the recognized object; h) moving the robot arm with the gripper sideways with respect to the stem to separate the recognized object from the stem; i) moving the robot arm over a conveyor on the mobile platform and opening the gripper to deposit the recognized object on the sorting conveyor; j) repeating steps b) through i) for remaining objects; k) advancing the mobile platform a predetermined distance; 1) providing a leaf canopy spreader and if heavy foliage exists activating the leaf canopy spreader to uncover objects; m) repeating steps b) through 1). 8. The robotic harvester of claim 5, wherein each horizontal bar has depending flexible flaps attached thereto wherein the flexible flaps avoid damage to the plant. 9. The robotic harvester of claim 5, wherein the computer has a program to advance the mobile platform in programmable incremental steps, and the robotic harvester has a brake to ensure precise stopping and a motion tracking sensor to assure the advancement and stopping of the robotic harvester. 