A high inertance liquid piston engine-compressor that is lightweight, portable and for use with pneumatically actuated devices that may have periods of inactivity between periods of pneumatic use. The engine-compressor provides a power generation system that is for use with mobile or portable devices which need a portable long lasting energy source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A liquid piston engine-compressor, comprising: a liquid piston, the liquid piston further comprising: a tube having a first end and a second end; a first transition member attached to the first end of the tube; a second transition member attached to the second end of the tube; a first diaphragm attached to the first transition member; a second diaphragm attached to the second transition member, so that the first diaphragm and the second diaphragm trap a fluid in the tube; an engine head attached to the first diaphragm of the liquid piston, wherein the engine head and the first diaphragm define a variable volume combustion chamber; wherein the engine head defines an opening so that a compressed air-fuel mixture of at least 20 psig may pass therethrough; an ignition device attached to the engine head in order to combust the air-fuel mixture in the combustion chamber; an exhaust valve attached to the engine head so that combustion byproducts pass through the engine head when the exhaust valve opens; a variable volume compression chamber, the compression chamber further comprising: a housing attached to the second diaphragm of the liquid piston, opposite the second transition member; an inlet valve attached to the housing; an outlet valve attached to the housing; a reservoir, the reservoir further comprising: a first tube attached to the variable volume compression chamber; a reservoir body attached to the first tube, wherein the reservoir body is pressurized to at least 20 psig by the compression chamber; a second tube attached to the reservoir body so that pressurized air is released for use; a third tube attached to the reservoir body so that pressurized air is released to an air/fuel mixing circuit; the air/fuel mixing circuit attached to the third tube; and an air/fuel line attached to the mixing circuit in order to provide air/fuel for combustion in the combustion chamber. 2. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, further comprising: a fuel chamber, wherein the fuel chamber is pressurized to at least 20 psig; a tube attached to the fuel chamber and the air/fuel mixing circuit. 3. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the first diaphragm is a silicone rubber. 4. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the second diaphragm is an elastomeric material. 5. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the second diaphragm is a metal bellows. 6. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein a volume of the first transition member is at least equal to a volume of the compression chamber. 7. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein a weight of the engine-compressor is in a range of from about 1 pound to about 20 pounds. 8. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the tube of the liquid piston has a ratio of length to diameter of at least 10. 9. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the tube of the liquid piston has a pressure rating of at least 200 psig. 10. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the tube of the liquid piston is a thin-walled metal. 11. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the tube of the liquid piston is constructed of flexible high-pressure tubing. 12. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the tube of the liquid piston has an inner diameter less than a largest inner diameter of either transition member. 13. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the first diaphragm has a stiffness of from about 0.2 Pa/mm.sup.3 to about 200 Pa/mm.sup.3. 14. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 13, wherein the second diaphragm has a stiffness of from about 0.2 Pa/mm.sup.3 to about 200 Pa/mm.sup.3. 15. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the first diaphragm and the second diaphragm are oriented so that they flex in opposition of each other in response to combustion in the combustion chamber. 16. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the first transition member has a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the first transition member attaches to the first end of the tube of the liquid piston and the second end of the first transition member is opposite of the first end of the first transition member, wherein the ratio of the cross sectional area of the second end of the first transition member to the cross sectional area of the tube of the liquid piston is from about 2 to about 1000. 17. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, wherein the second transition member has a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of the second transition member attaches to the second end of the tube of the liquid piston and the second end of the second transition member is opposite of the first end of the second transition member, wherein the ratio of the cross sectional area of the second end of the second transition member to the cross sectional area of the tube of the liquid piston is from about 2 to about 1000. 18. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, further comprising a compressed natural gas fuel injector. 19. The liquid piston engine-compressor of claim 1, further comprising an inlet valve attached to the engine head so that the combustion chamber is connected to ambient air. 20. A liquid piston engine-compressor, comprising: a liquid piston, the liquid piston further comprising: a tube having a first end and a second end; a first transition member attached to the first end of the tube; a second transition member attached to the second end of the tube; a first diaphragm attached to the first transition member; a solid piston slidably engaging the second transition member, so that the first diaphragm and the solid piston trap a fluid in the tube; an engine head attached to the first diaphragm of the liquid piston, wherein the engine head and the first diaphragm define a variable volume combustion chamber; wherein the engine head defines an opening so that a compressed air-fuel mixture of at least 20 psig may pass therethrough; an ignition device attached to the engine head in order to combust the air-fuel mixture in the combustion chamber; an exhaust valve attached to the engine head so that combustion byproducts pass through the engine head when the exhaust valve opens; a variable volume compression chamber, the compression chamber further comprising: a housing attached to the solid piston of the liquid piston, opposite the second transition member; an inlet valve attached to the housing; an outlet valve attached to the housing; a reservoir, the reservoir further comprising: a first tube attached to the variable volume compression chamber; a reservoir body attached to the first tube, wherein the reservoir body is pressurized to at least 20 psig by the compression chamber; a second tube attached to the reservoir body so that pressurized air is released for use; a third tube attached to the reservoir body so that pressurized air is released to an air/fuel mixing circuit; the air/fuel mixing circuit attached to the third tube; and an air/fuel line attached to the mixing circuit in order to provide air/fuel for combustion in the combustion chamber. 21. A liquid piston engine-compressor, comprising: a liquid piston, the liquid piston further comprising: a tube having a first end and a second end; a first transition member attached to the first end of the tube; a second transition member attached to the second end of the tube; a first solid piston slidably engaging the first transition member; a second solid piston slidably engaging the second transition member, so that the first solid piston and the second solid piston trap a fluid in the tube; an engine head attached to the first solid piston of the liquid piston, wherein the engine head and the first solid piston define a variable volume combustion chamber; wherein the engine head defines an opening so that a compressed air-fuel mixture of at least 20 psig may pass therethrough; an ignition device attached to the engine head in order to combust the air-fuel mixture in the combustion chamber; an exhaust valve attached to the engine head so that combustion byproducts pass through the engine head when the exhaust valve opens; a variable volume compression chamber, the compression chamber further comprising: a housing attached to the second solid piston of the liquid piston, opposite the second transition member; an inlet valve attached to the housing; an outlet valve attached to the housing; a reservoir, the reservoir further comprising: a first tube attached to the variable volume compression chamber; a reservoir body attached to the first tube, wherein the reservoir body is pressurized to at least 40 psig by the compression chamber; a second tube attached to the reservoir body so that pressurized air is released for use; a third tube attached to the reservoir body so that pressurized air is released to an air/fuel mixing circuit; the air/fuel mixing circuit attached to the third tube; and an air/fuel line attached to the mixing circuit in order to provide air/fuel for combustion in the combustion chamber. 