A contact tip for a welding torch includes a refractory material reinforced copper composite including approximately 10 to 50% by volume of a refractory material and at least one of copper and a copper alloy. The refractory material is one of a metal and a ceramic material. The contact tip may include an elongated, generally cylindrical body having a front contact end, an opposite rear retaining end, and a passageway extending from the rear retaining end to the front contact end. A portion of the passageway may be defined by the refractory material reinforced copper composite. The portion may have a diameter that is approximately 3 to 8% larger than an outer diameter of a consumable electrode wire, and the portion may have a length of approximately 0.2 to 0.6 inches.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A contact tip for a welding torch, the contact tip comprising: a refractory material reinforced copper composite including approximately 10 to 50% by volume of a refractory material and at least one of copper and a copper alloy; the refractory material being one of a metal and a ceramic material; the electrical conductivity of said refractory material reinforced copper composite being generally between 2.61.times.10.sup.7 and 5.22.times.10.sup.7 Siemens per meter at 20.degree. C. 2. The contact tip of claim 1, wherein the refractory material comprises at least one of tungsten (W), molybdenum (Mo), graphite, tungsten carbide (WC), zirconium oxide (ZrO.sub.2), silicone carbide (SiC), magnesium oxide (MgO), and alumina (Al.sub.2O.sub.3). 3. The contact tip of claim 1, wherein the refractory material has a structure including one or more of whiskers, continuous fibers, short fibers, particles, laminar flakes, and porous pre-form structures. 4. The contact tip of claim 1, wherein the refractory material is tungsten (W), and the refractory material is present in a range of 10 to 41% by volume. 5. The contact tip of claim 4, wherein the refractory material is present in a range of 10 to 32% by volume. 6. The contact tip of claim 1, wherein said contact tip is partially formed of said refractory material reinforced copper composite. 7. The contact tip of claim 1, wherein said contact tip is entirely formed of said refractory material reinforced copper composite. 8. The contact tip of claim 1, including a body made of at least one of a copper and a copper alloy, said body being impregnated with said refractory material reinforced copper composite. 9. The contact tip of claim 1, including a body having a front discharge end, an opposite rear feed end, and a bore extending through said body; and an insert received in said bore through one of said front discharge end and said rear feed end, said insert including said refractory material reinforced copper composite. 10. The contact tip of claim 1, including a body having a front discharge end, an opposite rear feed end, and a passageway extending from said rear feed end to said front discharge end; a portion of said passageway being defined by said refractory material reinforced copper composite, said portion having an inner diameter that is approximately 3 to 8% larger than an outer diameter of a consumable electrode wire, and said portion having a length of approximately 0.20 to 0.60 inches. 11. A contact tip for a welding torch, the contact tip comprising: a body having a front discharge end, an opposite rear feed end, and a passageway extending from said rear feed end to said front discharge end; a front portion of said passageway at said front discharge end having a diameter that is approximately 3 to 8% larger than an outer diameter of a consumable electrode wire, said front portion having a length of approximately 0.20 to 0.60 inches, and said front portion being defined by a refractory material reinforced copper composite; said refractory material reinforced copper composite including approximately 10 to 50% by volume of a refractory-material and at least one of copper and a copper alloy; the refractory material being one of a metal and a ceramic material; the electrical conductivity of said refractory material reinforced copper composite being generally between 2.61.times.10.sup.7 and 5.22.times.10.sup.7 Siemens per meter at 20.degree. C. 12. The contact tip of claim 11, wherein the refractory material comprises at least one of tungsten (W), molybdenum (Mo), graphite, tungsten carbide (WC), zirconium oxide (ZrO.sub.2), silicone carbide (SiC), magnesium oxide (MgO), and alumina (Al.sub.2O.sub.3). 13. The contact tip of claim 11, wherein the refractory material is tungsten (W), and the refractory material is present in a range of 10 to 41% by volume. 14. The contact tip of claim 13, wherein the refractory material is present in a range of 10 to 32% by volume. 15. A welding torch assembly comprising: a retaining head; and a contact tip mounted in said retaining head, said contact tip including a refractory material reinforced copper composite including approximately 10 to 50% by volume of a refractory material and at least one of copper and a copper alloy; the refractory material being one of a metal and a ceramic material; the electrical conductivity of said refractory material reinforced copper composite being generally between 2.61.times.10.sup.7 and 5.22.times.10.sup.7 Siemens per meter at 20.degree. C. 16. The welding torch assembly of claim 15, wherein the refractory material comprises at least one of tungsten (W), molybdenum (Mo), graphite, tungsten carbide (WC), zirconium oxide (ZrO.sub.2), silicone carbide (SiC), magnesium oxide (MgO), and alumina (Al.sub.2O.sub.3). 