The position of a movable element such as the end of a robot arm (10) which has several degrees of freedom, being mounted on a base (11) and including a wrist mechanism, is determined by installing a multiplicity of base targets (32, 74) around the base of the robot, and a multiplicity of arm targets (42, 74) around the base (14) of the wrist mechanism (15), and an optical means (90) that moves with the movable element to determine the positions of at least some of the base targets and of at least some of the arm targets. The optical means may be a laser tracker or a camera system (90), and it may be mounted on the part (13) of the robot arm to which the base (14) of the wrist mechanism (15) is connected. This enables existing robots (10) to achieve absolute positional accuracy relative to a fixed external frame of reference.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for determining the position of the end of a robot arm that is movable within a frame of reference, the robot arm having several degrees of freedom, the robot arm being mounted on a base and including a wrist mechanism, the wrist mechanism including a rotational support element, the apparatus comprising a multiplicity of first targets fixed relative to the wrist mechanism of the robot arm, and a multiplicity of base elements at fixed positions relative to the frame of reference, the apparatus also comprising an optical measurement system including optical means movable with the robot arm, wherein the base elements are around the base of the robot, and the first targets are arranged as arm targets around the rotational support element of the wrist mechanism, and the movable optical means is mounted on or adjacent to the robot arm, and the optical measurement system comprising means to enable the positions of at least some of the base elements relative to the movable optical means and the positions of at least some of the arm targets relative to the movable optical means to be determined. 2. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the movable optical means comprises a laser tracker. 3. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base elements are base targets. 4. An apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the base elements comprise retro-reflectors. 5. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base elements comprise base cameras, and the movable optical means comprises at least one target and at least one camera to view the arm targets. 6. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base elements are mounted on a base element support structure of a material of low thermal expansivity. 7. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the base element support structure is arranged to rest on three spaced-apart support elements. 8. An apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein the base elements are readily removable from and replaceable on the base element support structure. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first targets comprise retro-reflectors. 10. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the first targets are mounted on an arm target support structure of a material of low thermal expansivity surrounding and mounted to the wrist mechanism. 11. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the movable optical means is mounted on an arm element to which the rotational support element of the wrist mechanism is attached. 12. A method for determining the position of the end of a robot arm, comprising using an apparatus as claimed in claim 1. 13. A method for repeatedly determining the positions of the ends of a plurality of robot arms as claimed in claim 12 in which the arm targets or the base elements or the movable optical means are exchanged between different robot arms cyclically. 