A wheeled platform 100 is disclosed, which is characterized by high mobility and reliability, and which can be used in a wide range of applications including transport and robotic devices. The wheeled platform 100 has fore and aft body portions 130, 132, each body portion 130, 132 having first and second sides 106, 108. Overlapping wheels 112, 114, 116, 118 are rotatably attached to the first side 106 and overlapping wheels 120, 122, 124, 126 are rotatably attached to the second side 108. The fore body portion 130 can be connected to the aft body portion 132 via an articulation element 133.
Claims We claim: 1. A wheeled structure comprising: a body; right and left sets of forward and rearward wheels rotatably coupled to corresponding sides of the body, at least one wheel of each set of wheels driven to propel the wheeled structure; a non-articulated tail element extending from a first end pivotally coupled to the body by an articulation element and terminating at an element-free second end; and a drive module coupled to the tail element to control the movement of the tail element between a first, stowed position, wherein the tail element and element-free second end of the tail element are pivoted to lay along the body, and a second, non-stowed position where the tail element can make selective contact with a plurality of steps of a stairway; wherein the tail element is configured to contact a first step of the stairway and lift the first end wheel to attain the first step. 2. The wheeled structure of claim 1, wherein to make selective contact with a stairway, the tail element is pivotable through a continuous range of articulated positions about the articulation element. 3. The wheeled structure of claim 1, wherein the tail element can make selective contact with a trailing step of the stairway. 4. The wheeled structure of claim 1, wherein the articulation element is a hinge. 5. The wheeled structure of claim 1, wherein the articulation element is a pivot. 6. The wheeled structure of claim 1, wherein the articulation element is a flexible body portion. 7. The wheeled structure of claim 1, wherein the tail element is straight. 8. The wheeled structure of claim 1, wherein when the tail element is articulated furthest forward with respect to the body, the tail is long enough to contact a stairway step forward of the first end wheel. 9. A wheeled structure comprising: a body having first and second ends; right and left sets of forward and rearward wheels rotatably coupled to corresponding sides of the body, at least one wheel of each set of wheels driven to propel the wheeled structure; a non-articulated tail element extending from a first end pivotally coupled to the body by an articulation element and terminating at an element-free second end; and a drive module coupled to the tail element to control the movement of the tail element between a first, stowed position and a second, non-stowed position where the element-free second end of the tail element can make selective contact with a plurality of steps of a stairway; wherein the tail element is configured to rotate between a first position extending below the first end of the body and a second position extending past the opposite, second end of the body. 10. The wheeled structure of claim 9, wherein to make selective contact with a stairway, the tail element is pivotable through a continuous range of articulated positions about the articulation element. 11. The wheeled structure of claim 9, wherein the tail element can make selective contact with a trailing step of the stairway. 12. The wheeled structure of claim 9, wherein the articulation element is a hinge. 13. The wheeled structure of claim 9, wherein the articulation element is a pivot. 14. The wheeled structure of claim 9, wherein the articulation element is a flexible body portion. 15. The wheeled structure of claim 9, wherein the tail element is straight. 