A gripper grasps irregular and deformable work pieces so as to lift and hold packaged, processed, or raw, and manipulate the work pieces for the purpose of material handling, assembly, packaging, and other robotic and automated manipulative functions. A vacuum is induced at multiple points through a flexible gripping hood to provide lifting force to, and facilitate rapid movement of, work pieces. An array of lighting devices and a double ring array of segmented mirrors provide uniform illumination to ensure accurate positioning of the gripping hood with respect to the work piece to be manipulated.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An optical system for determining a location and orientation of a work-piece on a work surface, comprising: a circular array of light sources mounted above the work surface; at least one segmented ring of mirrors mounted below the circular array of light sources and above the work surface; and a camera having an objective lens for recording an image of the work-piece; wherein the circular array of light sources directs light downward and outward toward the at least one segmented ring of mirrors, and the at least one segmented ring of mirrors reflects the light downward and inward toward the work surface, thereby providing uniform illumination around the circumference of the work-piece. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the circular array of light sources comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the circular array of light sources has a spectra of predetermined wavelengths. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least two concentric segmented rings of mirrors mounted below the circular array of light sources and above the work surface; wherein the circular array of light sources directs light downward and outward toward the at least two concentric segmented rings of mirrors, each one of the at least two concentric segmented rings of mirrors being configured to reflect the light downward and inward toward the work surface at a different angle, thereby causing the reflected light to strike the circumference of the work-piece at two or more different heights. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising memory to store a plurality of model work-piece images, each model work-piece image being associated with an optimized gripping position for that model work-piece. 6. The system of claim 5, further comprising a robotic controller to automatically (i) extract geometric features of the work-piece from the image recorded by the camera, (ii) compare the extracted geometric features to a model work-piece image in the memory having similar geometric features, and (iii) change the position of a robotic arm controlled by the robotic controller so as to bring a gripper connected to the robotic arm into general alignment with the optimized gripping position associated with the model work-piece. 7. A method for determining an orientation of a work-piece on a work surface, comprising: mounting a circular array of light sources above the work surface; mounting at least one segmented ring of mirrors below the circular array of light sources and above the work surface; directing light produced by the circular array of light sources downward and outward toward the at least one segmented ring of mirrors; reflecting the light from the at least one segmented ring of mirrors downward and inward toward the work surface, thereby providing uniform illumination around the circumference of the work-piece; recording an image of the illuminated work-piece with a digital camera, said image including the circumference; and determining the orientation of the work-piece based on said image. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising storing a plurality of model work-piece images in a memory device on a computer, each model work-piece image being associated with an optimized gripping position for that model work-piece. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising executing a robotic control program on the computer, the robotic control program having program instructions that cause the computer to automatically (i) extract geometric features of the work-piece from the image recorded by the digital camera, (ii) compare the extracted geometric features to a model work-piece image in the memory device having similar geometric features, and (iii) change the position of a robotic arm controlled by the robotic control program so as to bring a gripper connected to the robotic arm into general alignment with the optimized gripping position associated with the model work-piece. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising varying the wavelength of the light produced by the circular array of light sources to change the contrast between the work surface and the circumference of the work-piece in the image. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising varying the wavelength of the light produced by the circular array of light sources to change the contrast between different elements of the work-piece in the image. 12. The method of claim 7, further comprising varying the angular position of the mirrors in the at least one segmented ring of mirrors to change the height at which the reflected light strikes the circumference of the work-piece. 13. An optical imaging system for determining an orientation of a work-piece on a work surface, comprising: a circular array of light sources mounted above the work surface, the circular array of light sources comprising a plurality of light emitting diodes; a plurality of segmented rings of mirrors mounted below the circular array of light sources and above the work surface, the plurality of segmented rings of mirrors configured to receive light directed downward and outward by the circular array of light sources and to reflect the light downward and inward toward the work surface, thereby providing uniform illumination around the circumference of the work-piece; a camera having an objective lens for recording an image of the work-piece on the work surface; a computer processor; a memory device coupled to the computer processor for storing a plurality of model work-piece images, each model work-piece image being associated with an optimized gripping position for that model work-piece; and a robotic controller operable on the computer processor to automatically cause the computer processor to (i) extract geometric features of the work-piece from the image recorded by the camera, (ii) compare the extracted geometric features to a model work-piece image in the memory having similar geometric features, and (iii) change the position of a robotic arm so as to bring a gripper connected to the robotic arm into general alignment with the optimized gripping position associated with the model work-piece. 14. The optical imaging system of claim 13, wherein each one of the plurality of segmented rings of mirrors is configured to reflect the light downward and inward toward the work surface at a different angle, thereby causing the reflected light to strike the circumference of the work-piece at different heights. 15. A method for moving a robotic arm and a gripper connected thereto into position to grasp a work-piece resting on a work surface, comprising: storing a plurality of model work-piece images on a memory device coupled to a computer processor, each model work-piece image being associated with an optimized gripping position for that model work-piece; mounting a circular array of light sources above the work surface; mounting a plurality of segmented rings of mirrors below the circular array of light sources and above the work surface; directing light produced by the circular array of light sources downward and outward toward the plurality of segmented rings of mirrors; reflecting the light from the plurality of segmented mirrors downward and inward toward the work surface, thereby providing uniform illumination around the circumference of the work-piece; recording an image of the work-piece on the work surface with a digital camera; executing a robotic control program on the computer processor, the robotic control program having program instructions that cause the computer processor to automatically (i) extract geometric features of the work-piece from the image recorded by the digital camera, (ii) compare the extracted geometric features to a model work-piece image in the memory having similar geometric features, and (iii) change the position of the robotic arm so as to bring the gripper connected thereto into general alignment with the optimized gripping position associated with the model work-piece. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the circular array of light sources comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising varying the wavelength of the light produced by the circular array of light sources to change the contrast between the work surface and the circumference of the work-piece in the image. 18. The method of claim 15, further comprising varying the wavelength of the light produced by the circular array of light sources to change the contrast between different elements of the work-piece in the image. 19. The method of claim 15, further comprising varying the angular position of the mirrors in the plurality of segmented rings of mirrors to change the heights at which the reflected light strikes the circumference of the work-piece. 