An Autonomous robot, that is for example, suitable for operations such as vacuuming and surface cleaning includes a payload configured for vacuum cleaning, a drive system including a steering system, a navigation system, and a control system for integrating operations of the aforementioned systems.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: a drive system; and at least one sensor in communication with the drive system, the at least one sensor configured for detecting at least a first signal and an adjacent second signal for controlling the drive system and confining the apparatus to operate in a location within the area, wherein the at least one sensor is configured for detecting coded signals corresponding to each of the first signal and the second signal, and wherein the at least one sensor is configured for detecting the first signal that is coded as an IN signal and detecting the second signal that is coded as an OUT signal, for maintaining the apparatus in the location within the area. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, additionally comprising a transmitter for transmitting the first and second signals. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, additionally comprising a vacuum cleaner payload. 4. A system for confining an apparatus for autonomous operation over an area to a bounded portion of the area, the system comprising: an apparatus for autonomous operation comprising: a drive system; and at least one sensor in communication with the drive system, the at least one sensor configured for detecting at least a first signal and a second signal for confining the apparatus to operate in the bounded portion of the area; and, a transmitter for transmitting said first and second signals adjacent to each other to define a boundary for the bounded portion of the area. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the transmitter transmits the first signal inside the bounded portion of the area, and transmits the second signal outside of the bounded portion of the area. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one sensor is an infra red (IR) light sensor and the transmitter transmits IR light signals. 7. The system of claim 4, wherein the transmitter is configured for transmitting coded signals corresponding to each of the first signal and the second signal, and the at least one sensor is configured for detecting the coded signals. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the coded signals include an IN signal defining the first signal, and, an OUT signal defining the second signal. 9. The system of claim 4, wherein the apparatus additionally comprises a vacuum cleaner payload. 