An expandable electric cord having a core portion, a conductor portion and a sheath portion; wherein the core portion is an elastic cylinder having an elastic body and an intermediate layer covering the outer periphery thereof. The conductor portion contains a conductor wire having narrow stranded wires, with the conductor wire being coiled and/or braided around the outer periphery of the elastic cylinder, and the sheath portion is an outer sheath layer having an insulator that covers the outer periphery of the conductor portion.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An expandable electric cord having a structure at least comprised of a core portion, a conductor portion and a sheath portion; wherein, the core portion is an elastic cylinder comprised of an elastic body and an intermediate layer covering the outer periphery thereof, the elastic body is an elastic long fiber having ductility of 100% or more and a converted diameter of 0.01 to 10 mm, or a coil spring having ductility of 50% or more and an outer diameter of 0.02 to 30 mm, the thickness of the intermediate layer is within the range of 0.1 Ld (Ld: converted diameter of the elastic long fiber or outer diameter of the coil spring) or 0.1 mm, whichever is smaller, to 10 mm, the conductor portion contains a conductor wire comprised of narrow stranded wires, with the conductor wire being coiled and/or braided around the outer periphery of the elastic cylinder, and the sheath portion is an outer sheath layer comprised of an insulator that covers the outer periphery of the conductor portion, and the 30% stretch load is 5000 cN or less. 2. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the 50% stretching stress of the elastic cylinder is 1 to 500 cN/mm.sup.2. 3. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the conductor wire is comprised of an electrical conductor having specific resistance of 10.sup.-4 .OMEGA..times.cm or less. 4. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the diameter of the narrow wire (Lt) is 1 mm or less. 5. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the conductor wire contains 80% or more of copper or aluminum. 6. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the conductor wire has an insulating sheath layer having a thickness of 1 mm or less for each narrow wire, or has an insulating sheath layer having a thickness of 2 mm or less for all of the stranded wires. 7. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the conductor wire has an integration layer for integrating into the core section, and the integration layer is comprised of an elastic body having ductility of 50% or more. 8. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the conductor portion is comprised of a plurality of conductor wires. 9. The expandable electric cord according to claim 1, wherein the electrical resistance of a single conductor wire is 10 .OMEGA./m or less. 10. An expandable electric cord in the form of a narrow width, elastic tape, wherein a plurality of the expandable electric cords according to claim 1 are gathered into the form of a single narrow width, elastic tape while stretching. 