A method of controlling application of a substance to vegetation using data obtained via a mobile machine is provided. A height of the vegetation is measured during a scheduled task of the mobile machine. The measured height of the vegetation is compared with a calculated height of the vegetation. Then, an amount of the substance applied by an irrigation system to an area containing the vegetation is adjusted based on a difference between the measured height of the vegetation and the calculated height of the vegetation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling application of a substance to vegetation using data obtained via a mobile machine, the method comprising: measuring a height of the vegetation during a scheduled task of the mobile machine; comparing the measured height of the vegetation with a calculated height of the vegetation; and adjusting an amount of the substance applied by an irrigation system to an area containing the vegetation based on a difference between the measured height of the vegetation and the calculated height of the vegetation. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: increasing the amount of the substance applied by the irrigation system to the area containing the vegetation in response to the measured height of the vegetation being less than the calculated height of the vegetation. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: decreasing the amount of the substance applied by the irrigation system to the area containing the vegetation in response to the measured height of the vegetation being greater than the calculated height of the vegetation. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: mapping received environmental factors to past times in association with intervals between scheduled tasks of the mobile machine; receiving current and future predictions of environmental factors; and adjusting a schedule of the irrigation system based on a calculated vegetation height to account for the environmental factors. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the mobile machine is aware of the schedule of the irrigation system; and wherein a controller of the mobile machine adjusts the schedule of the irrigation system based on non-optically sensed changes in vegetation height by the mobile machine. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the substance is a liquid. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the liquid is at least one of water, fertilizer, pesticide, fungicide, nematicide, and herbicide. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculated height of the vegetation is at least one of a predicted height of the vegetation, a desired height of the vegetation, and a deviation from a value calculated from the measured height of the vegetation. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the value calculated from the measured height of the vegetation used as the basis of the deviation is at least one of an average of the measured height of the vegetation, a median of the measured height of the vegetation, a percentile of the measured height of the vegetation, and a multiple of a standard deviation of the measured height of the vegetation. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the height of the vegetation is based on a power usage of a task payload system of the mobile machine during the scheduled task. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the height of the vegetation is based on data obtained by a set of sensors located on the mobile machine during the scheduled task. 