A reagent cabinet for an automated processing apparatus. The reagent cabinet has a housing, and a drawer slidably mounted in the housing. The drawer has a lower deck adapted to receive a fluid reservoir, and an upper deck located above the lower deck and adapted to receive a fluid supply container. A supply connection hose is provided to selectively connect the fluid supply container to the fluid reservoir. A reservoir connection hose is provided to selectively connect to the fluid reservoir and to convey fluid from the fluid reservoir to a downstream location outside the cabinet. A pump is mounted on the drawer. The pump is adapted to convey fluid through either the supply connection hose or the reservoir connection hose.
Claims We claim: 1. A reagent cabinet for an automated processing apparatus, the reagent cabinet comprising: a housing; a drawer slidably mounted in the housing and movable between a first position in which the drawer is contained within the housing, and a second position in which at least a portion of the drawer is outside the housing, the drawer having a lower deck adapted to receive a fluid reservoir, and an upper deck located above the lower deck and configured to receive a fluid supply container, the fluid supply container being selectively removable from the drawer independently of the fluid reservoir; a supply connection hose configured to connect the fluid supply container to the fluid reservoir; and a reservoir connection hose adapted to selectively connect to the fluid reservoir and to convey fluid from the fluid reservoir to a downstream location outside the cabinet. 2. The reagent cabinet of claim 1, further comprising one or more doors pivotally mounted on the cabinet and configured to close the cabinet when the drawer is in the first position. 3. The reagent cabinet of claim 1, wherein the upper deck is configured to receive a supplemental fluid supply container. 4. The reagent cabinet of claim 3, wherein the fluid supply container and the supplemental fluid supply container contain the same kind of fluid. 5. The reagent cabinet of claim 3, wherein the fluid supply container and the supplemental fluid supply container contain different kinds of fluid. 6. The reagent cabinet of claim 4, wherein the fluid supply container contains a wash buffer having a detergent, and the supplemental fluid supply container contains a wash buffer not having a detergent. 7. The reagent cabinet of claim 1, wherein the upper deck comprises a lower opening configured to receive an outlet from the fluid supply container. 8. The reagent cabinet of claim 1, wherein the upper deck comprises a hose hook configured to hold the supply connection hose when the fluid supply container is not in place on the upper deck. 9. The reagent cabinet of claim 1, wherein the fluid supply container is removable in a vertical direction from the upper deck when the drawer is in the second position. 10. The reagent cabinet of claim 1, further comprising a pump configured to convey fluid through the reservoir connection hose and to the downstream location. 11. The reagent cabinet of claim 10, wherein the pump is mounted on the drawer. 12. A reagent cabinet for an automated processing apparatus, the reagent cabinet comprising: a housing having a front opening; a drawer slidably mounted in the housing and movable in a sliding direction between a first position in which the drawer is contained within the housing, and a second position in which at least a portion of the drawer extends outside the front opening of the housing, the drawer being configured to hold one or more fluid reservoirs in a first vertical height, and to hold one or more fluid supply containers in a second vertical height, the second vertical height being higher than the first vertical height; and one or more supply connection hoses each being configured to connect a respective fluid supply container to a respective fluid reservoir; wherein the one or more fluid supply containers are selectively removable from the drawer independently of the one or more fluid reservoirs to thereby permit replacement of the one or more fluid supply containers without removing the one or more fluid reservoirs. 13. The reagent cabinet of claim 12, wherein the drawer comprises a first deck configured to hold the one or more fluid reservoirs at the first vertical height, and a second deck configured to hold the one or more fluid supply containers at the second vertical height. 14. The reagent cabinet of claim 13, wherein the second deck is positioned directly above the first deck. 15. The reagent cabinet of claim 13, wherein the first deck and the second deck are aligned in the sliding direction. 16. The reagent cabinet of claim 15, wherein the first deck and the second deck are positioned such that the one or more fluid supply containers are closer to the front opening of the housing than the one or more fluid reservoirs when the drawer is in the first position, and the one or more fluid supply containers are further from the front opening of the housing than the one or more fluid reservoirs when the drawer is in the second position. 17. The reagent cabinet of claim 12, wherein the one or more fluid supply containers comprises a plurality of fluid supply containers containing the same kind of fluid. 18. The reagent cabinet of claim 12, wherein the one or more fluid supply containers comprises a plurality of fluid supply containers containing different kinds of fluid. 19. The reagent cabinet of claim 18, wherein at least a first fluid supply container contains a wash buffer having a detergent, and at least a second fluid supply container contains a wash buffer not having a detergent. 