A powered wheel chair device comprises a motorized undercarriage and a support seat for supporting a wheelchair occupant. At least one support arm is located adjacent the seat. A controller is mounted on the arm, the controller including a joystick unit within reach of the occupant. The joystick is in communication with the motorized undercarriage for driving the undercarriage. The joystick includes an upstanding post with a collar, the collar having a periphery with a number of abutment regions located therealong. A number of actuators are provided, each movable from a storage position distal to the corresponding abutment region and a deployed position adjacent the corresponding abutment region. Each actuator is responsive to an obstacle detecting sensor near a corresponding peripheral region of the undercarriage.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A powered wheel chair device, comprising: a motorized undercarriage; a support seat for supporting a wheelchair occupant at least one support arm located adjacent the seat, a controller mounted on the arm, the controller including a joystick unit within reach of the occupant, the joystick being in communication with the motorized undercarriage for driving the undercarriage, the joystick including a collar having a periphery with a number of abutment regions located therealong; obstacle detecting sensors peripherally positioned on the wheel chair; and a number of actuators mounted relative to the collar and movable between a storage position distal to a corresponding abutment region and a deployed position adjacent the corresponding abutment region, each actuator being deployed responsive to a corresponding obstacle detecting sensor positioned near a corresponding peripheral region of the wheel chair for inhibiting travel of the joystick in a direction of an obstacle sensed by the corresponding sensor. 2. A device as defined in claim 1, the actuator including a solenoid, a blocking arm pivotally mounted to a base portion, the blocking arm having a remote end region, the blocking arm responsive to the solenoid for pivoting between the storage and deployed positions. 3. A device as defined in claim 2, the collar portion including a plate member, each abutment portion including a projection. 4. A device as defined in claim 3, the plate member including a plurality of recesses, each recess being triangular in shape. 5. A device as defined in claim 1, the controller including a portion for issuing a signal to the occupant according to at least one operating condition. 6. A device as defined in claim 5, the signaling portion including a plurality of LED units arranged to convey directional signals when activated. 7. A device as defined in claim 1, further comprising a remote control unit operable for establishing a wired or wireless data path with the controller. 8. A device as defined in claim 7, the remote control unit including a remote joystick, and a remote signaling unit for conveying directional messages over the data path with the controller. 9. A device as defined in claim 8, further comprising a remote joystick positioning unit for positioning the remote joystick, the signaling unit operable for receiving directional messages over the data path from the controller according to a current position on the joystick, the remote joystick positioning unit responsive to the signaling unit to synchronize an operative position of the remote joystick with the joystick. 10. A device as defined in claim 7, the remote control unit including one or more activators which are communicate with the signaling unit to convey directional messages over the data path, the controller being responsive to the directional messages to activate one or more actuators to limit travel of the joystick. 11. A device as defined in claim 10, the actuators being provided by a touch pad, a touch screen and/or a keyboard. 12. A device as defined in claim 1, each of the sensors configured to send an abutment signal to a corresponding actuator upon detecting that the wheel chair is below a predetermined safe distance from a given obstacle. 13. A device as defined in claim 1, wherein the sensors are positioned on the undercarriage. 14. A device as defined in claim 1, the sensors comprising proximity sensors. 15. A device as defined in claim 1, the actuators comprising radio controlled actuators. 16. A method for retrofitting a powered wheel chair device of the type having a motorized undercarriage, a support seat for supporting a wheelchair occupant, at least one support arm located adjacent the seat, and a controller mounted on the arm, the controller including a joystick unit within reach of the occupant, the joystick being in communication with the motorized undercarriage for driving the undercarriage, comprising: providing a collar member for attachment to the joystick, the collar member having a periphery including a number of abutment regions located therealong; providing a number of actuators mounted relative to the collar to be movable between a storage position distal to a corresponding abutment region and a deployed position adjacent the corresponding abutment region; providing obstacle detecting sensors for peripheral positioning on the wheel chair; and configuring each actuator to be responsive to a corresponding obstacle detecting sensor near a corresponding peripheral region of the wheel chair, so that when the corresponding sensor detects an obstacle, the actuator is moved to the deployed position, thereby presenting a barrier against travel of the joystick in the direction of the barrier. 17. A kit for retrofitting a powered wheel chair device of the type having a motorized undercarriage, a support seat for supporting a wheelchair occupant, and a joystick unit within reach of the occupant, the joystick being in communication with the motorized undercarriage for driving the undercarriage, comprising: obstacle detecting sensors to be peripherally positioned on the wheel chair; a collar for attachment to the joystick, the collar having a periphery with a number of abutment regions located therealong; actuators each to be mounted around the collar to be movable between a storage position distal to a corresponding abutment region of the collar and a deployed position adjacent to the corresponding abutment region, and configured to be deployed responsive to a corresponding obstacle detecting sensor sensing an obstacle near a corresponding peripheral region of the wheel chair so to inhibit travel of the joystick in a direction of the obstacle. 18. A kit as defined in claim 17, further comprising a collar for attachment to an upstanding post of the joystick, the collar defining along a periphery thereof each corresponding abutment region of the joystick. 19. A kit as defined in claim 17, the actuators comprising radio controlled actuators. 20. A kit as defined in claim 17, the sensors comprising proximity sensors. 