A modular force sensor apparatus, method, and system are provided to improve force and torque sensing and feedback to the surgeon performing a telerobotic surgery. In one embodiment, a modular force sensor includes a tube portion including a plurality of strain gauges, a proximal tube portion for operably coupling to a shaft of a surgical instrument that may be operably coupled to a manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system, and a distal tube portion for proximally coupling to a wrist joint coupled to an end portion.
Claims We claim: 1. A minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising: a shaft; a surgical tool at a distal end of the minimally invasive surgical instrument; a wrist joint coupling the surgical tool to the shaft; and a force sensor apparatus positioned at a distal portion of the minimally invasive surgical instrument proximal to the wrist joint, wherein the force sensor apparatus comprises a plurality of strain gauges positioned on a distal end of the shaft proximal to the wrist joint, and wherein an outer diameter of the distal end of the shaft is less than or equal to an outer diameter of the shaft proximal to the distal end. 2. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the force sensor apparatus comprises a slip-on force sensor module. 3. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1 further comprising an integrated circuit embedded in the minimally invasive surgical instrument, wherein the integrated circuit has programmed therein calibration data of the force sensor so that a surgical system using the minimally invasive surgical instrument can access the calibration data. 4. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the shaft comprises a tube having an outer diameter less the outer diameter of the shaft proximal to the distal end. 5. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 4, wherein the force sensor apparatus further comprises a cover having an outer diameter equal to the outer diameter of the shaft proximal to the distal end. 6. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 4, wherein the tube further comprises a proximal portion mounted to the shaft, a distal portion coupled to the wrist joint, and a third portion extending from the proximal portion of the tube to the distal portion of the tube, wherein the plurality of strain gauges are positioned around the third portion, and wherein the third portion has an outer diameter less than the outer diameter of the shaft proximal to the distal end. 7. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 6, wherein the force sensor apparatus further comprises a cover having an outer diameter equal to the outer diameter of the shaft proximal to the distal end. 8. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 7, wherein the cover further comprises: an outer concentric tubular member tube having a proximal end affixed to the proximal portion of the tube to form an annular gap between the outer concentric tubular member tube and the third and distal portions of the tube. 9. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 8 further comprising: an annular ring of material in the annular gap, wherein the annular ring couples the tube to the outer concentric tubular member. 10. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 9, wherein the annular ring comprises an elastomer. 11. The minimally invasive surgical instrument of claim 9, wherein the annular ring comprises a low-friction material. 12. A method comprising: coupling a wrist joint to a distal end of a shaft of a minimally invasive surgical instrument, wherein the shaft has an outer diameter proximal to the distal end, and wherein an outer diameter of the distal end of the shaft is less than or equal to the outer diameter of the shaft proximal to the distal end; coupling an end portion of the minimally invasive surgical instrument to the wrist joint; and positioning a plurality of force sensors on the distal end of the shaft proximal to the wrist joint. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the distal end of the shaft comprises a depressed tube portion, and wherein the positioning further comprises mounting the plurality of strain gauges on the depressed tube portion. 14. The method of claim 12: wherein the distal end of the shaft comprises a tube having a proximal tube portion, a distal tube portion, and a third tube portion that extends between the proximal tube portion and the distal tube portion; wherein the proximal tube portion is configured to couple to the shaft; wherein the distal tube portion is configured to support affixing the wrist joint; and wherein said positioning further comprises mounting the plurality of strain gauges on the third tube. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the third tube portion includes a depressed tube portion that is depressed relative to the proximal tube portion, and wherein the mounting further comprises mounting the plurality of strain gauges on the depressed tube portion. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the third tube portion comprises a material different from a material of the shaft of the surgical instrument. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein the positioning the plurality of strain gauges comprises mounting four strain gauges spaced apart by 90 degrees around the distal end of the shaft. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the positioning of the plurality of strain gauges comprises mounting three strain gauges spaced apart by 120 degrees around the distal end of the shaft. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the positioning of the plurality of strain gauges comprises aligning each strain gauge with one other strain gauge along an axis parallel to a lengthwise axis of the shaft. 20. The method of claim 12, wherein the primary strain sensing direction of each of the strain gauges is oriented parallel to a lengthwise axis of the shaft. 21. The method of claim 12 further comprising selecting the plurality of strain gauges from the group consisting of fiber optic, foil, surface acoustic wave, and semiconductor type strain gauges. 