A medical robotic system comprises a number of components that may be monitored to determine their preventive maintenance needs by recording usage-related information for the monitored components into associated non-volatile memories. When usage of the component exceeds a specified usage threshold, the system displays a warning message on its display screen to have preventive maintenance performed for the component. If the usage continues without such maintenance and exceeds a higher usage threshold, the system displays an error message on its display screen and the system transitions into an error state during which medical procedures are not allowed to be performed. The usage-related information may also be communicated to a remote computer which gathers and processes usage-related information from a number of medical robotic systems to estimate resource requirements for timely performing preventive maintenance on the medical robotic systems, and anticipated service revenues from such maintenance.
Claims We claim: 1. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components, wherein the components include subsystems, and wherein the non-volatile memories reside in their respectively associated subsystems; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; and displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded. 2. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the subsystems include a patient-side unit and a surgeon console. 3. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 2, wherein the subsystems include a first plurality of slave manipulators included in the patient-side unit, and a second plurality of master manipulators included in the surgeon console. 4. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 2, wherein the subsystems include a first plurality of removable subassemblies included in the patient-side unit, and a second plurality of removable subassemblies included in the surgeon console. 5. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 4, wherein the first plurality of removable subassemblies includes a first plurality of printed circuit assemblies and a battery. 6. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 5, wherein the patient-side unit includes a plurality of robotic arms adapted to hold and manipulate medical devices, and individual of the plurality of robotic arms includes a plurality of setup joints for setting up the robotic arm so that its held medical device is manipulatable about a pivot point and a plurality of active joints for manipulating the robotic arm so as to manipulate its held medical device about the pivot point. 7. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 6, wherein the individual of the plurality of robotic arms further includes a first plurality of motors for breaking corresponding of the plurality of setup joints of the robotic arm, and the first plurality of printed circuit assemblies includes a first printed circuit assembly for gathering setup joint position and setup joint motor data from the plurality of setup joints and corresponding first plurality of motors. 8. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 6, wherein the individual of the plurality of robotic arms further includes a second plurality of motors for moving corresponding of the plurality of active joints of the robotic arm, and the first plurality of printed circuit assemblies includes a second printed circuit assembly for gathering active joint position and active joint motor data from the plurality of active joints and corresponding second plurality of motors. 9. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the components include a battery. 10. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the usage-related information includes a time that power is on for one of the components. 11. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the usage-related information includes a cycle count of a number of times that one of the components is powered up and down. 12. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the usage-related information includes a measure of time since installation of one of the components. 13. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 12, wherein a calendar date of the installation is stored in the non-volatile memory respectively associated with the component. 14. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 12, wherein a calendar date of the installation is stored along with a serial number of the component in a system configuration file of the medical robotic system. 15. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the usage-related information includes a measure of time since a last preventive maintenance was performed for one of the components. 16. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 15, wherein a calendar date of the last preventive maintenance for the component is stored in the non-volatile memory respectively associated with the component. 17. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 15, wherein a calendar date of the last preventive maintenance for the component is stored in a system configuration file of the medical robotic system. 18. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the usage-related information includes a count of a number of medical procedures performed using one of the components. 19. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the usage-related information includes an accumulated period of time that one of the components is electrically conducting. 20. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the components include a patient-side unit having a spring that is extendable along a vertical direction to assist in setting up a corresponding robotic arm of the patient-side unit, and the usage-related information includes a count of a number of times the spring changes direction in each of a plurality of zones defined along the vertical direction. 21. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded is performed during a power up process performed by the medical robotic system. 22. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 1, wherein the messages are displayed during a power up process performed by the medical robotic system. 23. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components, wherein the components include subsystems, and wherein the storing of usage-related information comprises: determining whether a usage-related countable event has occurred for one of the subsystems, incrementing a count in a field dedicated to the usage-related countable event in one of the non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components, and adding an entry in an event list in conjunction with incrementing of the count, wherein the entry includes a date of the incrementing and an identification of the usage-related countable event causing the incrementing; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; and displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded. 24. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 23, wherein the non-volatile memory respectively associated with the subsystem is an electrically programmable read only memory. 25. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 23, wherein the non-volatile memory respectively associated with the subsystem is a flash electrically erasable and programmable read only memory, and the incrementing of the count is performed so as not to require erasure of any previously programmed bits in the flash electrically erasable and programmable read only memory. 26. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components, wherein the components include subsystems, and wherein the components include joint related components of the medical robotic system; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; and displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded. 27. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components, wherein the components include a patient-side unit having a spring that is extendable along a vertical direction to assist in setting up a corresponding robotic arm of the patient-side unit, and wherein the usage-related information includes a count of a number of direction changes of the spring in the vertical direction; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; and displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded. 28. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components, wherein the components include subsystems; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded; and updating a system configuration file of the medical robotic system with the usage-related information stored in the non-volatile memories, wherein the updating of the system configuration file is performed during a power down process of the medical robotic system. 29. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 28, wherein the determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded, comprises: reading an item from the system configuration file; and determining whether the item has exceeded one or more usage thresholds for one of the components related to the item. 30. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded; and copying a snapshot of the contents of the non-volatile memories to a removable memory unit during a power down process performed by the medical robotic system. 31. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 30, wherein the removable memory unit is insertable into a memory slot in a surgeon console of the medical robotic system. 32. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded; and communicating the stored usage-related information to a remote location over a communication medium. 33. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 32, wherein the communication medium is the Internet. 34. The preventive maintenance method according to claim 32, wherein the communication medium is a telephone line. 35. A preventive maintenance method for a medical robotic system, comprising: storing usage-related information for components of the medical robotic system in non-volatile memories respectively associated with the components; determining whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded according to the stored usage-related information; displaying messages on a display screen of the medical robotic system identifying individual of the components to be recommended for preventive maintenance based upon such determination of whether one or more usage thresholds for the components are exceeded, wherein the displaying of messages on the display screen of the medical robotic system comprises: displaying an error message if a first usage threshold is exceeded and displaying a warning message if a second usage threshold that is lower than the first usage threshold is exceeded; and transitioning the medical robotic system into an error state so that a medical procedure may not be performed using the medical robotic system if the error message is to be displayed as a result of the first usage threshold being exceeded. 