The technology described herein generally relates to systems for extracting polynucleotides from multiple samples, particularly from biological samples, and additionally to systems that subsequently amplify and detect the extracted polynucleotides. The technology more particularly relates to microfluidic systems that carry out PCR on multiple samples of nucleotides of interest within microfluidic channels, and detect those nucleotides. The technology still more particularly relates to automated devices for carrying out pipetting operations, particularly on samples in parallel, consistent with sample preparation and delivery of PCR-ready nucleotide extracts to a cartridge wherein PCR is run.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A liquid dispenser, comprising: a gas manifold comprising a plurality of independently controllable manifold valves and a plurality of lines configured to distribute gas amongst the plurality of manifold valves; one or more pumps configured to provide gas to the gas manifold; a plurality of dispense heads each in fluid communication with the gas manifold and configured to receive gas from one of said manifold valves; and electrical connections configured to transmit control signals from an external controller to the gas manifold for independent operation of each of the plurality of manifold valves, wherein each of the plurality of manifold valves is configured to be individually regulated to selectably divert gas from the one or more pumps to one of the plurality of dispense heads. 2. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, having 4 dispense heads, wherein each head is configured to accept a pipette tip. 3. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, configured to aspirate or dispense fluid in connection with analysis or preparation of solutions of two or more samples. 4. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, wherein the liquid dispenser is configured to move in three dimensions through a mechanical connection to a gantry. 5. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, wherein the plurality of dispense heads are individually sprung. 6. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, wherein the manifold comprises at least n+1 manifold valves, wherein n is the number of dispense heads. 7. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, wherein no solution of a sample enters the manifold during normal operation of the dispenser. 8. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, configured to accept or dispense, in a single operation, an amount of 1.0 ml of fluid or less. 9. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, configured to accept or dispense, in a single operation, an amount of fluid in the range 10 nl-1 ml. 10. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, further comprising at least one of an individual pipette tip sensor, an encoder for the pump, a force sensor, a barcode sensor, and an image sensor. 11. The liquid dispenser of claim 4, wherein the mechanical connection to the gantry and the electrical connections are the only external connections to the liquid dispenser. 12. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, wherein the liquid dispenser is configured to dispense liquid into a process tube and a microfluidic cartridge. 13. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, wherein the plurality of manifold valves comprise solenoid valves. 14. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, wherein the manifold further comprises at least one valve configured to vent the one or more pumps. 15. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, further comprising one or more sensors configured to sense when vertical motion of the liquid dispenser is obstructed. 16. The liquid dispenser of claim 1, further comprising a printed circuit board configured to control operation of the manifold. 17. A method of dispensing a liquid using the liquid dispenser of claim 1, the liquid dispenser comprising a manifold comprising a plurality of independently controllable manifold valves, a pump in fluid communication with the manifold, and a plurality of dispense heads in fluid communication with the manifold, each dispense head configured to accept a pipette tip, the method comprising: transmitting control signals to the gas manifold to independently control each of the plurality of manifold valves; operating one of the plurality of manifold valves individually to selectably divert gas from the one or more pumps to one of the plurality of dispense heads; and changing a gas pressure in the one of the plurality of dispense heads in order to draw a liquid into or out of a pipette tip attached to the one of the plurality of dispense heads. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of manifold valves comprise a plurality of solenoid valves, and wherein transmitting control signals to the gas manifold comprises sending a control signal to one of the plurality of solenoid valves. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein operating one of the plurality of manifold valves comprises opening or closing the one of the plurality of manifold valves to regulate gas flow to a dispense head valve associated with one of the plurality of dispense heads. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein changing a gas pressure in the one of the plurality of dispense heads comprises dispensing solutions of two or more samples into a process tube or a microfluidic cartridge. 