A medical robot for use inside an MRI includes a horizontal motion assembly, a vertical motion assembly and a controller. The horizontal motion assembly and the vertical assembly each includes a motion joint, an ultrasonic motor operably connected to the motion joint and an encoder operably connected to the ultrasonic motor. The motor and encoder are positioned proximate to the joint of the respective horizontal motion assembly and vertical motion assembly. Each motor has a cross section positioned in one of the axial and sagittal plane of the MRI. A medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the moving joint of the vertical motion assembly. The controller is operably connected to the horizontal motion joint and the vertical motion joint and it is adapted to be powered off when the magnetic resonance imager is being used to collect images.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A medical robot for use inside a magnetic resonance imager having an axial plane defined by a vertical axis and a sagittal plane defined by the lateral axis, the medical robot being connectable to a medical instrument assembly comprising: a horizontal motion assembly including a horizontal motion joint, a horizontal ultrasonic motor operably connected to said horizontal motion joint and a horizontal encoder operably connected to said horizontal ultrasonic motor, wherein said horizontal ultrasonic motor and said horizontal encoder are positioned proximate to said horizontal motion joint; a vertical motion assembly operably connected to the horizontal motion assembly, the vertical motion assembly including a vertical motion joint, a vertical ultrasonic motor operably connected to said vertical motion joint and a vertical encoder operably connected to said vertical ultrasonic motor, wherein said vertical ultrasonic motor and said vertical encoder are positioned proximate to said vertical motion joint and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of said vertical motion joint and said horizontal motion joint; and a controller operably connected to the horizontal motion joint and the vertical motion joint; wherein the ultrasonic motors each has a corresponding cross section positioned in a plane selected from the group consisting of the sagittal plane and axial plane of the magnetic resonance imager. 2. The medical robot as claimed in claim 1 further including a pan assembly operably connected to one of the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the pan assembly including a pan joint, a pan ultrasonic motor operably connected to the pan joint and a pan encoder operably connected to the pan ultrasonic motor, the pan ultrasonic motor and pan encoder are positioned proximate to the pan joint, the pan ultrasonic motor is positioned in one of the axial and sagittal plane and the pan assembly is operably connected to the controller. 3. The medical robot as claimed in claim 2 further including a tilt assembly operably connected to one of the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the tilt assembly, the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the tilt assembly including a tilt joint, a tilt ultrasonic motor operably connected to the tilt joint and a tilt encoder operably connected to the tilt ultrasonic motor, the tilt ultrasonic motor and the tilt ultrasonic motor are positioned proximate to the tilt joint, said tilt ultrasonic motor is positioned in one of the axial and sagittal plane and the tilt assembly is operably connected to the controller. 4. The medical robot as claimed in claim 3 further including a roll assembly operably connected to one of the tilt assembly, the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the roll assembly, the tilt assembly, the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the roll assembly including a roll joint and a roll ultrasonic motor operably connected to the roll joint and a roll encoder operably connected to the roll ultrasonic motor, the roll ultrasonic motor and the roll encoder are positioned proximate to the roll joint, said roll ultrasonic motor is positioned in one of the axial and sagittal plane, and the roll assembly is operably connected to the controller. 5. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 wherein the tilt assembly and the roll assembly are a combined tilt and roll assembly. 6. The medical robot as claimed in claim 5 wherein the horizontal motion assembly further includes a horizontal lead screw operably connected to the ultrasonic motor of the horizontal motion assembly, a pair of spur gears operably connected between said horizontal lead screw and a horizontal plate. 7. The medical robot as claimed in claim 6 wherein the vertical motion assembly further includes a vertical lead screw operably connected to the ultrasonic motor of the vertical motion assembly and a timing belt and pair of pulleys operably connected between said vertical lead screw and a vertical plate. 8. The medical robot as claimed in claim 7 wherein the pan motion assembly further includes a pan shaft assembly operably connected to the pan ultrasonic motor, a timing belt and pulleys operably connected to the pan shaft assembly and operably connectable to the medical instrument assembly. 9. The medical robot as claimed in claim 8 wherein the combined tilt and roll assembly further includes a bevel gear differential mechanism operably connected to the tilt ultrasonic motor and the roll ultrasonic motor and the bevel gear differential mechanism is operably connectable to the medical instrument assembly. 10. The medical robot as claimed in claim 9 wherein each of the ultrasonic motors is positioned a predetermined distance from a local coil used in the magnetic resonance imager whereby the positioning thereof reduces electromagnetic interaction with the magnetic resonance imager. 11. The medical robot as claimed in claim 10 further including gears operably connected to at least one of the ultrasonic motors. 12. The medical robot as claimed in claim 11 further including a gears attached to each of the ultrasonic motors. 13. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 wherein the medical instrument assembly is a trocar and the trocar is operably connected to the controller. 14. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 wherein the medical instrument assembly includes a pushing and pulling mechanism operably connected to an ultrasonic motor positioned proximate thereto. 15. The medical robot as claimed in claim 14 wherein the pushing and pulling mechanism includes a pushing and pulling lead screw operably connected to the ultrasonic motor, a holder operably connected to the pushing and pulling lead screw and the holder being adapted to hold a laser applicator and further including a locker operably connected to the lead screw. 16. The medical robot as claimed in claim 15 wherein the medical instrument assembly further includes a pneumatically driven tapping block operably connected to the pushing and pulling mechanism. 17. The medical robot as claimed in claim 16 wherein a combination of the medical robot and the medical instrument assembly is a six degree of freedom medical robot and the ultrasonic motors are adapted to be positionable within the isocentre of the medical resonance imager. 18. The medical robot as claimed in claim 15 whereby the controller is rapidly turned on and off interleaved between the turning on the magnetic imager, imaging and turning off of the magnetic resonance imager, thereby interleaving the imaging with movement. 19. The medical robot as claimed in claim 18 whereby the imaging includes imaging sequences whereby the imaging sequences are one of a gradient echo pulse sequence with a short echo time and a fast-spin-echo pulse sequence with a short echo time. 20. The medical robot as claimed in claim 18 whereby the imaging includes imaging sequences whereby the imaging sequences include three different pulse sequences including long-TE FSE, T1-weighted FSE, and short-TR gradient echo. 21. The medical robot as claimed in claim 14 wherein the medical instrument assembly further includes one of a laser diffuser with a retractable titanium sheath, a biopsy tool and a brachytherapy tool. 22. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 further including a control system operably connected to the controller and remote from and isolated from the controller. 23. The medical robot as claimed in claim 22 wherein the control system is isolated by one of a predetermined distance and magnetically isolated. 24. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 further including a calibration phantom attached to the medical instrument assembly. 25. The medical robot as claimed in claim 24 wherein the calibration phantom includes a housing that is attachable to a predetermined location on the medical instrument, at least one channel formed in the housing capable of being visible in a magnetic resonance image, the channel being at a predetermined location to a point of interest in the medical instrument. 26. The medical robot as claimed in claim 25 wherein the at least one channel is a plurality of channels. 27. The medical robot as claimed in claim 26 wherein there are four channels. 28. The medical robot as claimed in claim 25 wherein the at least one channel is an annular ring. 29. The medical robot as claimed in claim 25 wherein each channel is filled with a mixture of water and magnetic resonance imager visible fluid. 30. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 wherein the medical instrument includes a laser fiber having a surrounding channel filled with a mixture of water and magnetic resonance imager visible fluid. 31. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 further including a platform having a robot guide adapted to receive the medical robot and a patient receiving portion adapted to adjustably position a patient thereon. 32. The medical robot as claimed in claim 31 wherein the platform includes a base and the patient receiving portion includes a haunch support hingeably attached to the base and a leg support hingeably attached to the haunch support. 33. The medical robot as claimed in claim 32 wherein the patient receiving portion further includes an adjustable mechanism assembly operably connected to the leg support whereby movement of the adjustable mechanism repositions the haunch support relative to the leg support. 34. The medical robot as claimed in claim 33 further including a pair of guides one on each side of the base and the adjustable mechanism assembly engages the guides and is moveable along the guides. 35. The medical robot as claimed in claim 34 wherein the robot is moveable along the guides. 