An apparatus for monitoring the thickness of a conductive layer on a substrate includes a support to hold a substrate having a conductive layer, an eddy current monitoring system including a first plurality of core portions, and a motor to cause relative motion between the support and the eddy current monitoring system such that the substrate moves across the first plurality of core portions in a direction that defines a first axis. At least one core portion is positioned further from a second axis than at least two other core portions. The second axis is orthogonal to the first axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for monitoring a thickness of a conductive layer on a substrate, comprising: a support configured to hold the substrate with a face of the substrate in a first plane during monitoring; an eddy current monitoring system including a first plurality of core portions; and a motor to cause relative motion between the support and the eddy current monitoring system such that the first plurality of core portions move relative to the substrate in a first direction parallel to the first plane; wherein the first plurality of core portions are spaced apart in a second direction and separated by gaps, the second direction parallel to the first plane and perpendicular to the first direction, and wherein at least one core portion of the first plurality of core portions is positioned a different distance in the first direction from a first reference line than at least two other core portions, the first reference line being parallel to the first plane and orthogonal to the first direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of core portions extend in parallel and normal to the first plane. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of core portions are positioned along a path, and wherein the path is normal to the first direction at about a midpoint of the path. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a first distance between core portions positioned furthest apart along a first axis parallel to the first direction is less than a second distance between core portions positioned furthest apart along a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a coil coupled with at least one of the first plurality of core portions. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of core portions comprise a ferrite material. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second plurality of core portions positioned substantially opposite to the first plurality of core portions to define a predetermined gap therebetween for passage by the substrate. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a platen to hold a polishing pad to polish the substrate, wherein the first plurality of core portions are positioned in the platen, and wherein the support is a carrier head. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a factory interface unit having a robot that comprises the support to transfer the substrate from a cassette to a processing station, and wherein the first plurality of core portions are positioned in the factory interface unit. 10. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein each of the first plurality of core portions has a first width in the first direction and a second width in the second direction and a height in a third direction perpendicular to the first direction and the second direction, the height greater than the first width and the second width. 11. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first plurality of core portions extend perpendicularly from a back portion. 12. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the path is an arc. 13. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the second distance is at least twice the first distance. 14. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the second distance is between about one centimeter and about five centimeters. 15. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the first distance is less than about one centimeter. 16. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising: a drive system to generate a current in the coil; and a sense system to derive a characteristic of a conductive region of the substrate based on eddy currents generated in the conductive region of the substrate. 17. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the first plurality of core portions include a first core portion and a second core portion, and wherein the coil is wound in opposite directions around the first core portion and the second core portion. 18. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a controller configured to cause the robot to move the substrate in the first direction across the first plurality of core portions. 19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the arc has a radius of curvature approximately equal to the substrate. 20. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the coil is coupled with the plurality of core portions such that application of current to the coil induces magnetic fields in opposite directions in adjacent core portions. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein core portions positioned progressively farther along a first axis parallel to the first direction are progressively closer to the first axis. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the coil is wound in opposite directions around adjacent core portions. 