Medical and/or robotic devices, systems and methods provide an indicator associated with a manipulator assembly of a multi-arm telerobotic or telesurgical system. An example of an indicator comprises a multi-color light emitting diode (LED) mounted to a manipulator moving an associated surgical instrument, allowing the indicator to display any of a wide variety of signals. The invention may provide an additional user interface to facilitate communications between the telesurgical system and/or members of a telesurgical team.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical manipulator assembly, comprising: a manipulator movably supporting a tool holder; and an indicator section operably coupled to the manipulator for indicating state or identity information, the indicator section including a multiple-color light emitting diode (LED), a translucent housing, and a first fastener for operably coupling a second fastener of a sterile drape used to substantially cover the surgical manipulator assembly from a sterile field. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the multiple-color LED is a tri-colored LED capable of displaying red, green, and blue. 3. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the translucent housing has a rough exterior surface and a smooth interior surface. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the translucent housing is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polycarbonate and a clear plastic. 5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the state information is selected from the group consisting of a state of a tool mounted on the tool holder, and a state of the manipulator assembly. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the identity information is selected from the group consisting of an identity of a mounted tool, and an identity of the manipulator assembly. 7. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a tool mountable on the tool holder. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein the tool is selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 9. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a manipulator clutch switch threaded into the housing. 10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first fastener includes a magnet and the second fastener includes a metal tab. 11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first fastener includes a metal tab and the second fastener includes a magnet. 12. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a grip point located on a surface of the indicator section selected from the group consisting of a front, back, and side surface. 13. A surgical manipulator assembly, comprising: a manipulator movably supporting a tool holder for mounting a tool; and an indicator section operably coupled adjacent to the tool holder of the manipulator, the indicator section configured to indicate state or identity information, the indicator section including a multiple-color light emitting diode (LED), a translucent housing, and a magnet for operably coupling to a metal tab of a sterile drape used to substantially cover the surgical manipulator assembly from a sterile field. 14. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the tool is selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 15. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the multiple-color LED is a tri-colored LED capable of displaying red, green, and blue. 16. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the translucent housing has a rough exterior surface and a smooth interior surface. 17. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the state information is selected from the group consisting of a state of the tool mounted on the tool holder, and a state of the manipulator assembly. 18. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the identity information is selected from the group consisting of an identity of the tool mounted on the tool holder, and an identity of the manipulator assembly. 19. The assembly of claim 13, further comprising a manipulator clutch switch threaded into the housing. 20. The assembly of claim 13, further comprising a grip point located on a surface of the indicator section selected from the group consisting of a front, back, and side surface. 21. A robotic surgical manipulator system, comprising: a manipulator assembly, including: a manipulator movably supporting a tool holder, and an indicator section operably coupled adjacent to the tool holder of the manipulator, the indicator section configured to indicate state or identity information, and the indicator section including a multiple-color light emitting diode (LED), a translucent housing, and a first fastener for operably coupling to a second fastener of a sterile drape used to substantially cover the manipulator assembly from a sterile field; a tool mounted on the tool holder; and a processor operably coupled to the manipulator assembly for inducing the LED to indicate state or identity information. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the multiple-color LED is a tri-colored LED capable of displaying red, green, and blue. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the translucent housing has a rough exterior surface and a smooth interior surface. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the state information is selected from the group consisting of a state of a tool mounted on the tool holder, and a state of the manipulator assembly. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the identity information is selected from the group consisting of an identity of a mounted tool, and an identity of the manipulator assembly. 26. The system of claim 21, wherein the manipulator assembly further comprises a manipulator clutch switch threaded into the housing. 27. The system of claim 21, wherein the first fastener includes a magnet and the second fastener includes a metal tab. 28. The system of claim 21, wherein the manipulator assembly further comprises a grip point located on a surface of the indicator section selected from the group consisting of a front, back, and side surface. 29. The system of claim 21, wherein the tool is selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 