A device is provided having a robotic arm for handling a wafer, the robotic arm including one or more encoders that provide encoder data identifying a position of one or more components of the robotic arm. The device also having a processor adapted to apply an extended Kalman Filter to the encoder data to estimate a position of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device comprising: a robotic arm for handling a wafer, the robotic arm including one or more encoders that provide encoder data identifying a position of one or more components of the robotic arm; and a processor configured to apply an extended Kalman Filter to the encoder data to estimate a position of the wafer; wherein the processor recalculates the position when new encoder data is received. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the position includes a wafer center. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the position includes a wafer radius. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the position is determined with reference to an end effector of the robotic arm. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the position is determined with reference to a center axis of the robotic arm. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein new encoder data is received at substantially 2 kHz. 7. A method comprising: disposing a plurality of sensors within an interior of a wafer handling device, each one of the plurality of sensors capable of detecting a transition between presence and absence of a wafer at a predetermined location within the interior; handling a wafer with a robotic arm, the robotic arm including one or more encoders that provide encoder data identifying a position of one or more components of the robotic arm; and applying the encoder data to an extended Kalman Filter to provide an estimated position of the wafer. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein applying the encoder data includes calculating a wafer position every 0.5 milliseconds. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the estimated position of the wafer includes a center of the wafer. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein the estimated position of the wafer includes a radius of the wafer. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the estimated position of the wafer is determined with reference to an end effector of the robotic arm. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the estimated position is determined with reference to a center axis of the robotic arm. 13. The method of claim 7 wherein the plurality of sensors includes four sensors. 14. The method of claim 7 wherein applying encoder data includes recalculating the estimated position each time encoder data is received. 15. The method of claim 7 wherein handling a wafer includes moving the wafer between two openings to the wafer handling device. 16. The method of claim 7 wherein handling a wafer includes moving the wafer between a load lock and a process module. 17. The method of claim 7 wherein handling a wafer includes moving the wafer between a first process module and a second process module. 18. A device comprising: a robotic arm for handling a wafer, the robotic arm including one or more encoders that provide encoder data identifying a position of one or more components of the robotic arm; and a processor configured to apply an extended Kalman Filter to the encoder data when new encoder data is received to estimate a position of the wafer, wherein the processor is configured to update one or more equations of the Kalman Filter using transition data from one or more sensors that detect the presence of a wafer at one or more predetermined locations within a robotic wafer handler. 19. A method comprising: disposing a plurality of sensors within an interior of a wafer handling device, each one of the plurality of sensors capable of detecting a transition between presence and absence of a wafer at a predetermined location within the interior; handling a wafer with a robotic arm, the robotic arm including one or more encoders that provide encoder data identifying a position of one or more components of the robotic arm; applying the encoder data to an extended Kalman Filter to provide an estimated position of the wafer; detecting a transition at one of the plurality of sensor to provide an actual position of the wafer; determining an error between the actual position and the estimated position; and updating one or more variables for the extended Kalman Filter based upon the error. 