Individual items or multiple items are stored on vertical stacks (or racks) of conveyors. The stacks of conveyors are located on both sides of a vertical transport on which cartons, totes, and/or pallets are loaded. The vertical transport is able to be vertically lifted in a fashion similar to an elevator so that the totes on the conveyor can receive items from the various levels of the storage rack conveyors. To speed up the loading process, items can be loaded in the containers simultaneously from both sides of the container and/or sequentially. In one form, a cross-belt conveyor is used to load the items. Alternatively or additionally, robotic arms can be used to load the items. One or more conveyor drivers can be used to power multiple conveyors in order to index items to a loading position on the conveyors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage system, comprising: at least two storage racks disposed in an opposing manner, the storage racks each including two or more levels that have one or more rack conveyors, wherein the rack conveyors are configured to store items; a vertical transport disposed between the storage racks, the vertical transport including one or more robotic arms being secured to the vertical transport to move vertically in unison with the vertical transport, the vertical transport having one or more loading areas, the robot arms being configured to load items from the racks onto the loading areas of the vertical transport; an elevator configured to move the vertical transport vertically between the levels so that the robotic arms are able to load the items from the rack conveyors onto the loading areas of the vertical transport, wherein the loading areas move vertically with vertical transport when the elevator vertically moves the vertical transport; wherein the vertical transport has one or more guide rails upon which the robotic arms hang, wherein the guide rails extend above the loading areas in a longitudinal direction between the racks; wherein the robotic arms are configured to move longitudinally above the loading areas along the guide rails for loading items along the length of the vertical transport; and wherein the robotic arms include an inverted six axis robot. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: wherein the rack conveyors are unpowered; and a conveyor driver configured to move to power two or more of the rack conveyors. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the conveyor driver is configured to move horizontally along one of the levels. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the conveyor driver is configured to move vertically between the levels for indexing rack conveyors on different levels so that the robotic arms are able to load the items from the rack conveyors on different levels while the vertical transport remains vertically stationary. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the conveyor driver is secured to the vertical transport. 6. The system of claim 2, where in the conveyor driver is secured to one of the racks. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the vertical spacing between the levels in the racks decreases at higher levels. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein: the vertical transport includes a cross-belt conveyor configured to load the items from the rack conveyors onto the vertical transport; and the cross-belt conveyor being secured to the vertical transport to move vertically in unison with the vertical transport. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a transport conveyor configured to unload the items from the vertical transport. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the transport conveyor is secured to the vertical transport to move vertically in unison with the vertical transport. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein: the loading areas of the vertical transport includes two or more rails that are spaced apart to hold one or more containers in which the items are loaded; and the vertical transport is configured to lift the containers from the transport conveyor during loading. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising: an incoming conveyor configured to load containers onto the vertical transport; and an outgoing conveyor configured to unload the containers from the vertical transport. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the incoming conveyor and the outgoing conveyor are disposed at the same end of the vertical transport. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a replenishment station configured to move vertically and horizontally along at least one of the racks for replenishing items on the rack conveyors. 15. A storage system, comprising: at least two storage racks disposed in an opposing manner, the storage racks each including two or more levels that have one or more rack conveyors upon which items are stored; a vertical transport disposed between the storage racks, the vertical transport including a cross-belt conveyor configured to load the items from the rack conveyors onto the vertical transport, the cross-belt conveyor including one or more carriages horizontally moveable in a travel direction along the one or more rack conveyors, and each of the one or more carriages having a powered belt mounted generally perpendicular to the travel direction so that items moved with the powered belt move generally perpendicular to the travel direction of the carriage; and an elevator configured to move the vertical transport vertically between the levels. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the cross-belt conveyor is secured to the vertical transport to move vertically in unison with the vertical transport. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the cross-belt conveyor is looped around the vertical transport to load the items from the at least two storage racks simultaneously. 18. A storage system, comprising: a storage rack including two or more levels that have one or more rack conveyors, wherein the rack conveyors are configured to store items a cross-belt conveyor located along a side of the storage rack for transporting the items, the cross-belt conveyor including one or more carriages horizontally moveable in a travel direction along the one or more rack conveyors, and each of the one or more carriages having a powered belt mounted generally perpendicular to the travel direction to move the items generally perpendicular to the travel direction of the carriage; and an elevator coupled to the cross-belt conveyor to move the cross-belt conveyor vertically between the levels of the storage rack. 19. The storage system of claim 18, further comprising: one or more transport locations on the elevator where the cross-belt conveyor loads or unloads the items from the storage rack. 20. The storage system of claim 19, in which the one or more transport locations have one or more totes. 21. The storage system of claim 19, in which the one or more transport locations have one or more pallets. 22. The storage system of claim 19, further comprising: a transport conveyor on which the one or more transport locations are located. 23. The storage system of claim 18, further comprising: a plurality of chutes to which the cross-belt conveyor loads items from storage rack. 24. The storage system of claim 23, in which each of the chutes include a slide ramp. 25. The storage system of claim 24, in which the chutes include a plurality of standoffs that define the chutes. 26. The storage system of claim 18, further comprising: a second storage rack, wherein both storage racks face each other in an opposing manner with the cross-belt conveyor disposed in between; and the cross-belt conveyor is in the form of a loop between the storage racks. 27. The storage system of claim 18, further comprising: a robotic arm coupled to the elevator. 28. A method, comprising: loading a first item from a first rack conveyor at a first rack level onto a cross-belt conveyor; moving the item in a lateral direction that is transverse to the first rack conveyor with the cross-belt conveyor; depositing the first item from the cross-belt conveyor at a loading area that is offset in the lateral direction from the first rack conveyor; moving the cross-belt conveyor in a vertical direction to a second rack level that is offset in the vertical direction from the first rack level; loading a second item from the second rack level onto the cross-belt conveyor; wherein the cross-belt conveyor includes one or more carriages moveable in the lateral direction and each of the one or more carriages having a powered belt mounted generally perpendicular to the lateral direction; and wherein said loading the first item includes powering the powered belt to move the first item in a direction that is transverse to the lateral direction. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising: wherein said moving the cross-belt conveyor in the vertical direction includes moving the cross-belt conveyor up; and wherein said depositing the first item from the cross-belt conveyor at the loading area includes loading the item into a tote. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising: wherein the loading area is incorporated with the cross-belt conveyor; and wherein said moving the cross-belt conveyor in the vertical direction include moving the loading area in the vertical direction along with the cross-belt conveyor. 31. A storage system, comprising: at least two storage racks disposed in an opposing manner, the storage racks each including two or more levels that have one or more rack conveyors, wherein the rack conveyors are configured to store items; a vertical transport disposed between the storage racks, the vertical transport including one or more robotic arms being secured to the vertical transport to move vertically in unison with the vertical transport, the vertical transport having one or more loading areas, the robot arms being configured to load items from the racks onto the loading areas of the vertical transport; an elevator configured to move the vertical transport vertically between the levels so that the robotic arms are able to load the items from the rack conveyors onto the loading areas of the vertical transport, wherein the loading areas move vertically with vertical transport when the elevator vertically moves the vertical transport; wherein the vertical transport has one or more guide rails upon which the robotic arms hang, wherein the guide rails extend above the loading areas in a longitudinal direction between the racks; wherein the robotic arms are configured to move longitudinally above the loading areas along the guide rails for loading items along the length of the vertical transport; wherein the rack conveyors are unpowered; a conveyor driver configured to move to power two or more of the rack conveyors; and wherein the conveyor driver is configured to move horizontally along one of the levels. 32. A storage system, comprising: at least two storage racks disposed in an opposing manner, the storage racks each including two or more levels that have one or more rack conveyors, wherein the rack conveyors are configured to store items; a vertical transport disposed between the storage racks, the vertical transport including one or more robotic arms being secured to the vertical transport to move vertically in unison with the vertical transport, the vertical transport having one or more loading areas, the robot arms being configured to load items from the racks onto the loading areas of the vertical transport; an elevator configured to move the vertical transport vertically between the levels so that the robotic arms are able to load the items from the rack conveyors onto the loading areas of the vertical transport, wherein the loading areas move vertically with vertical transport when the elevator vertically moves the vertical transport; wherein the vertical transport has one or more guide rails upon which the robotic arms hang, wherein the guide rails extend above the loading areas in a longitudinal direction between the racks; wherein the robotic arms are configured to move longitudinally above the loading areas along the guide rails for loading items along the length of the vertical transport; wherein the rack conveyors are unpowered; a conveyor driver configured to move to power two or more of the rack conveyors; and wherein the conveyor driver is configured to move vertically between the levels for indexing rack conveyors on different levels so that the robotic arms are able to load the items from the rack conveyors on different levels while the vertical transport remains vertically stationary. 33. A storage system, comprising: at least two storage racks disposed in an opposing manner, the storage racks each including two or more levels that have one or more rack conveyors, wherein the rack conveyors are configured to store items; a vertical transport disposed between the storage racks, the vertical transport including one or more robotic arms being secured to the vertical transport to move vertically in unison with the vertical transport, the vertical transport having one or more loading areas, the robot arms being configured to load items from the racks onto the loading areas of the vertical transport; an elevator configured to move the vertical transport vertically between the levels so that the robotic arms are able to load the items from the rack conveyors onto the loading areas of the vertical transport, wherein the loading areas move vertically with vertical transport when the elevator vertically moves the vertical transport; wherein the vertical transport has one or more guide rails upon which the robotic arms hang, wherein the guide rails extend above the loading areas in a longitudinal direction between the racks; wherein the robotic arms are configured to move longitudinally above the loading areas along the guide rails for loading items along the length of the vertical transport; wherein the rack conveyors are unpowered; a conveyor driver configured to move to power two or more of the rack conveyors; and wherein the conveyor driver is secured to the vertical transport. 