A bidirectional tendon terminator that has particular application for terminating a tendon that actuates a finger in a robotic arm. The tendon terminator includes a cylindrical member having an internal channel through which a single continuous piece of the tendon extends. The internal channel of the tendon terminator includes a widened portion. A ball is placed in the tendon strands, which causes the tendon to expand, and the ball is positioned within the widened portion of the channel. Pulling on the tendon operates to either open or close the finger of the robotic arm depending on which direction the tendon is pulled. In one specific embodiment, the cylinder includes two cylindrical pieces that are coupled together so that the ball can be positioned within the channel and the cylindrical member has an entire circumference of material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tendon terminator comprising: a cylindrical member including a channel extending therethrough, said channel including narrow end portions and a widened center portion; a tendon extending through the channel in the cylindrical member; and a ball positioned within the tendon and placed within the center portion of the channel, said ball having a diameter so that it fits within the center portion of the channel, but does not fit within the narrow end portions of the channel so that the ball is locked within the cylindrical member and tension on the tendon from either side of the cylindrical member causes the cylindrical member to move in the direction of the tension. 2. The tendon terminator according to claim 1 wherein the cylindrical member includes a first cylindrical piece and a second cylindrical piece secured together where the first cylindrical piece and the second cylindrical piece each include a narrow end portion of the channel and provide a portion of the center portion and where the first and second cylindrical pieces can be spaced apart to allow the ball to be positioned within the tendon and then can be secured together to hold the ball within the center portion of the channel. 3. The tendon terminator according to claim 1 wherein the cylindrical member includes a slot formed in a sidewall of the cylindrical member that is in communication with the channel. 4. The tendon terminator according to claim 1 wherein the cylindrical member includes an opening formed in a side wall of the cylindrical member that is in communication with the center portion of the channel. 5. The tendon terminator according to claim 1 wherein the cylindrical member is machined aluminum. 6. The tendon terminator according to claim 1 wherein the tendon terminator terminates a tendon that actuates a finger of a robotic arm. 7. The tendon terminator according to claim 1 wherein the cylindrical member is about 0.2 inches long and about 0.125 inches in diameter. 8. The tendon terminator according to claim 1 wherein the ball is placed within braided strands of the tendon. 9. A tendon terminator comprising: a cylindrical member including a first cylindrical piece and a second cylindrical piece that are secured together, said cylindrical member including a channel extending therethrough, said channel including a first narrow end portion in one of the cylindrical pieces, a second narrow end portion in the other of the cylindrical pieces and a widened center portion provided in both of the first and second cylindrical pieces; a tendon extending through the channel in the cylindrical member; and a ball positioned within braided strands of the tendon and placed within the center portion of the channel, said ball having a diameter so that it fits within the center portion of the channel, but does not fit within the first and second narrow portions of the channel so that the ball is locked within the cylindrical member and tension on the tendon from either side of the cylindrical member causes the cylindrical member to move in the directed of the tension. 10. The tendon terminator according to claim 9 wherein the cylindrical member is machined aluminum. 11. The tendon terminator according to claim 9 wherein the tendon terminator terminates a tendon that actuates a finger of a robotic arm. 12. The tendon terminator according to claim 9 wherein the cylindrical member is about 0.2 inches long and about 0.125 inches in diameter. 13. A bidirectional tendon terminator for terminating a tendon that actuates a finger of a robotic arm, said tendon terminator comprising: a cylindrical member including a channel extending therethrough, said channel including narrow end portions and a widened center portion, said cylindrical member being machined aluminum; a tendon extending through the channel in the cylindrical member; and a ball positioned within the tendon and placed within the center portion of the channel, said ball having a diameter so that it fits within the center portion of the channel, but does not fit within the narrow end portions of the channel so that the ball is locked within the cylindrical member and tension on the tendon from either side of the cylindrical member causes the cylindrical member to move in the direction of the tension. 14. The tendon terminator according to claim 13 wherein the cylindrical member includes a first cylindrical piece and a second cylindrical piece secured together where the first cylindrical piece and the second cylindrical piece each include a narrow end portion of the channel and provide a portion of the center portion and where the first and second cylindrical pieces can be spaced apart to allow the ball to be positioned within the tendon and then can be secured together to hold the ball within the center portion of the channel. 15. The tendon terminator according to claim 13 wherein the cylindrical member includes a slot formed in a sidewall of the cylindrical member that is in communication with the channel. 16. The tendon terminator according to claim 13 wherein the cylindrical member includes an opening formed in a side wall of the cylindrical member that is in communication with the center portion of the channel. 17. The tendon terminator according to claim 13 wherein the cylindrical member is about 0.2 inches long and about 0.125 inches in diameter. 18. The tendon terminator according to claim 13 wherein the ball is placed within braided strands of the tendon. 