Small interfering RNA (siRNA) knock down antisense transcripts, and regulate the expression of their sense partners. This regulation can either be discordant (antisense knockdown results in sense transcript elevation) or concordant (antisense knockdown results in concomitant sense transcript reduction).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating a disease or condition in a subject in need of treatment thereof by modulating expression of a targeted gene encoding a drug target in a target cell, comprising: targeting a nucleic acid molecule to a naturally-occurring anti-sense transcript of a sense strand of the targeted gene in the target cell, wherein the nucleic acid molecule targeting the anti-sense transcript is complementary to the anti-sense transcript; and, wherein the anti-sense transcript is a coding RNA transcript or a noncoding RNA transcript lacking any extensive open reading frame, wherein the targeted gene is selected from the group consisting of CD97, TS-.alpha., C/EBP delta, CDC23, PINK1, HIF1.alpha., Gnbp3g, Adrenomedullin AM1 receptor, 3-oxoacid CoA transferase, Cathepsin W and BACE1, whereby expression of the sense strand in the target cell is modulated and expression of the gene encoding the drug target is up-regulated or down-regulated. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is an interference RNA molecule. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid molecule is about 5 to about 50 residues in length. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said nucleic acid molecule is about 5 to about 40 residues in length, about 5 to about 30 residues in length, about 10 to about 30 residues in length, about 15 to about 25 residues in length, about 10 to about 25 residues in length, about 12 to about 20 residues in length, or about 20 to about 25 residues in length. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid molecule: comprises a modified backbone; is a chimera; is chemically linked to one or more moieties or conjugates; is composed of linked regions; comprises at least one modified or substituted nucleobase; and/or combinations thereof. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said at least one modified or substituted nucleobase comprises a modified sugar moiety or a modified base moiety. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said at least one modified or substituted nucleobase comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, or a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein said at least one modified or substituted nucleobase comprises: an LNA; hypoxanthine; 6-methyladenine; 5-Me pyrimidine; 5-methylcytosine; 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (HMC); glycosyl HMC; gentobiosyl HMC; 2-aminoadenine; 2-(methylamino)adenine; 2-(imidazolylalky)adenine; 2-(aminoalklyamino)adenine; a heterosubstituted alkyladenine; 2-thiouracil; 2-thiothymine; 5-bromouracil; 5-hydroxymethyluracil; 8-azaguanine; 7deazaguanine; N.sub.6 (6-aminohexyl)adenine; or 2,6-diaminopurine. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein said nucleic acid comprising a modified backbone comprises: a PNA backbone linkage; a phosphorothioate backbone linkage; a morpholino backbone linkage; a phosphotriester backbone linkage; a methyl phosphonate backbone linkage; a short chain alkyl or cycloalkyl intersugar linkage; a short chain heteroatomic or heterocyclic intersugar linkage; and/or combinations thereof. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein said one or more moiety or conjugate comprises: a lipid; a cholesteryl; a cholic acid; a thioether; a thiocholesterol; an aliphatic chain; a phospholipid; a polyamine; a polyethylene glycol chain; or adamantane acetic acid. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is a ribozyme, small interfering RNA (sRNAi), double stranded RNA (dsRNA), inverted repeat, short hairpin RNA (shRNA), small temporally regulated RNA, clustered inhibitory RNA (cRNAi), radial clustered inhibitory RNA, asymmetric clustered inhibitory RNA, linear clustered inhibitory RNA, or a complex or compound clustered inhibitory RNA. 12. A method of treating a disease or condition in a subject in need of treatment thereof by modulating expression of a drug target protein in a target cell, comprising: targeting a nucleic acid molecule to a naturally-occurring anti-sense transcript of a sense strand of a targeted gene selected from the group consisting of CD97, TS-.alpha., C/EBP delta, CDC23, PINK1, HIF1.alpha., Gnbp3g, Adrenomedullin AM1 receptor, 3-oxoacid CoA transferase, Cathepsin W and BACE1, wherein the nucleic acid molecule targeting the anti-sense transcript is complementary to the anti-sense transcript and the nucleic acid binds to the anti-sense transcript, whereby expression of the sense strand in the target cell is modulated and expression of the drug target protein is up-regulated or down-regulated by at least 10%. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is an interference RNA molecule. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid molecule is about 5 to about 50 residues in length. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said nucleic acid molecule is about 5 to about 40 residues in length, about 5 to about 30 residues in length, about 10 to about 30 residues in length, about 15 to about 25 residues in length, about 10 to about 25 residues in length, about 12 to about 20 residues in length, or about 20 to about 25 residues in length. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein said nucleic acid molecule: comprises a modified backbone; is a chimera; is chemically linked to one or more moieties or conjugates; is composed of linked regions; comprises at least one modified or substituted nucleobase; and/or combinations thereof. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said at least one modified or substituted nucleobase comprises a modified sugar moiety or a modified base moiety. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein said at least one modified or substituted nucleobase comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl modified sugar moiety, a 2'-methoxy modified sugar moiety, or a 2'-O-alkyl modified sugar moiety. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein said at least one modified or substituted nucleobase comprises: an LNA; hypoxanthine; 6-methyladenine; 5-Me pyrimidine; 5-methylcytosine; 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (HMC); glycosyl HMC; gentobiosyl HMC; 2-aminoadenine; 2-(methylamino)adenine; 2-(imidazolylalkyl)adenine; 2-(aminoalklyamino)adenine; a heterosubstituted alkyladenine; 2-thiouracil; 2-thiothymine; 5-bromouracil; 5-hydroxymethyluracil; 8-azaguanine; 7-deazaguanine; N.sub.6 (6-aminohexyl)adenine; or 2,6-diaminopurine. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein said nucleic acid comprising a modified backbone comprises: a PNA backbone linkage; a phosphorothioate backbone linkage; a morpholino backbone linkage; a phosphotriester backbone linkage; a methyl phosphonate backbone linkage; a short chain alkyl or cycloalkyl intersugar linkage; a short chain heteroatomic or heterocyclic intersugar linkage; and/or combinations thereof. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein said one or more moiety or conjugate comprises: a lipid; a cholesteryl; a cholic acid; a thioether; a thiocholesterol; an aliphatic chain; a phospholipid; a polyamine; a polyethylene glycol chain; or adamantane acetic acid. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is a ribozyme, small interfering RNA (sRNAi), double stranded RNA (dsRNA), inverted repeat, short hairpin RNA (shRNA), small temporally regulated RNA, clustered inhibitory RNA (cRNAi), radial clustered inhibitory RNA, asymmetric clustered inhibitory RNA, linear clustered inhibitory RNA, or a complex or compound clustered inhibitory RNA. 23. The method of claim 12, wherein the nucleic acid molecule is targeted wholly or in part to noncoding ribonucleotides. 24. The method of claim 12, wherein expression of the gene encoding the drug target is up-regulated by at least about 33%, at least about 50%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 99%, or at least about 100%. 25. A method of modulating expression of a targeted gene encoding a drug target, comprising: identifying a nucleic acid molecule that binds to a naturally-occurring anti-sense transcript of a sense strand of the targeted gene encoding the drug target; targeting the nucleic acid molecule to the anti-sense transcript of the sense strand, wherein the nucleic acid molecule targeting the anti-sense transcript is complementary to the anti-sense transcript and the nucleic acid binds to the anti-sense transcript; wherein the anti-sense transcript is a coding RNA transcript or a noncoding RNA transcript lacking any extensive open reading frame, wherein the targeted gene is selected from the group consisting of PINK1, HIF1.alpha., Gnbp3g, Adrenomedullin AM1 receptor, 3-oxoacid CoA transferase, Cathepsin W and BACE1, whereby expression of the sense strand is modulated and expression of the gene encoding the drug target is up-regulated or down-regulated. 26. A method of modulating expression of a protein, comprising: identifying a nucleic acid molecule that binds to a naturally-occurring anti-sense transcript of a sense strand of a targeted gene encoding the protein; targeting the nucleic acid molecule to the anti-sense transcript of the sense strand, wherein the nucleic acid molecule targeting the anti-sense transcript is complementary to the anti-sense transcript and the nucleic acid binds to the anti-sense transcript; wherein the targeted gene is selected from the group consisting of CD97, TS-.alpha., C/EBP delta, CDC23, PINK1, HIF1.alpha., Gnbp3g, Adrenomedullin AM1 receptor, 3-oxoacid CoA transferase, Cathepsin W and BACE1. 27. The method of claim 1 wherein modulating expression of the targeted gene is down-regulating expression of the targeted gene, the method further comprising targeting a nucleic acid molecule to a sense transcript of the target gene, wherein the sense transcript is complementary to the sense strand of the targeted gene, whereby expression of the sense strand in the target cell is down-regulated. 28. The method of claim 12, wherein modulating expression of the targeted gene is down-regulating expression of the targeted gene, the method further comprising targeting a nucleic acid molecule to a sense transcript of the target gene, wherein the sense transcript is complementary to the sense strand of the targeted gene, whereby expression of the sense strand in the target cell is down-regulated. 29. The method of claim 25, wherein modulating expression of the targeted gene is down-regulating expression of the targeted gene, the method further comprising targeting a nucleic acid molecule to a sense transcript of the target gene, wherein the sense transcript is complementary to the sense strand of the targeted gene, whereby expression of the sense strand in the target cell is down-regulated. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein modulating expression of the targeted gene is down-regulating expression of the targeted gene, the method further comprising targeting a nucleic acid molecule to a sense transcript of the target gene, wherein the sense transcript is complementary to the sense strand of the targeted gene, whereby expression of the sense strand in the target cell is down-regulated. 