A resonant array for the transmission of multiple frequency wireless energy in multiple configurations at a useful distance for grid-coordinate power and information delivery on small aperture and mobile scales where alternatives such as battery, solar, infrared, microwave, or other power-independent means are inappropriate or inaccessible.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the transmission of wireless energy in the form of electrical currents and potential energy utilizing a resonator cavity in the form of an electromagnetic field; an array comprising: an elevated transmission pad (Tx), comprising a pair of wire loops that do not overlap, one that is thick with rubber insulation, one thinner with enamel insulation wound in a counter-clockwise spiral pattern with a gap in the center for mounting a conducting wire, a third coil or a staff on the plane formed by the pad, comprising a primary-secondary pair whose primary is of only a few turns with an input terminal connection mounted into the elevated pad for an external source such as an oscillator or signal generator with a BNC-type terminal across both ends of the primary wire; and, whose secondary is wound one arm to the next without gaps and of many turns with one end to an output terminal for an external capacitor and the other available as an electrical connection to the object that is mounted in the gap in the center of the composite coil; and, whose input BNC-type terminal's shell is wound from rear to front with the same type of wire as the secondary, one end connected to the shell of the terminal, the other returning along the length of the winding to one end of the primary wire; an elevated receiver pad (Rx), comprised of a pair of wire loops that do not overlap, one that is thick with rubber insulation, one thinner with enamel insulation wound in a clockwise spiral pattern with a gap in the center for mounting a conducting wire, a third coil or a staff on the plane formed by the pad, comprising a primary-secondary pair whose primary is of only a few turns with an output BNC-type connection to deliver the energy in the form of electrical currents with a BNC-type terminal across both ends of the primary wire; and, whose secondary is wound one arm to the next without gaps and of many turns with one end to an output terminal for an external capacitor and the other available as an electrical connection to the object that is mounted in the gap in the center of the composite coil; and, whose output BNC-type terminal's shell is wound from rear to front with the same type of wire as the secondary, one end connected to the shell of the terminal, the other returning along the length of the winding to one end of the primary wire, using a T-style connection with a stop termination to match impedance across the array at the BNC terminal; the external source using an amplifier of a suitable frequency range; a transmitter capacity, elevated approximately 2 meters, of a smooth regular shape, hollow and of metallic manufacture with good conductivity, the shape being an ellipsoid joined at the equator sharing a principal axis of symmetry (egg-shaped) with a threaded bar passing through its longest axis where a hanger is created above, a BNC-type connection below; a receiver capacity, elevated approximately 2 meters, of a less-smooth regular shape, of metallic manufacture of reasonable conductivity, the shape being a sphere with a threaded bar passing through its center axis where a hanger is created above, a BNC-type connection below; and, a pair of connections from each capacity to their respective pad connected between each pairs' BNC-type connection with an appropriate length of 50 Ohm cable; a tickler coil mounted in the gap of the transmitter elevated pad, which can be of a ferrous or non-ferrous core, wound clockwise along its length from bottom to top in the z-axis with respect to the plane of the elevated pad with enameled wire of the same size and type as the secondary winding, wound without gaps along the length; a tickler coil mounted in the gap of the receiver elevated pad, which can be of a ferrous or non-ferrous core, wound along its length in the z-axis with respect to the plane of the elevated pad with enameled wire of the same size and type as the secondary winding, wound sparsely and only of a few turns along the length; and, a mobile receiver card (Rx') consisting of a coil mounted on a flat board and separate from the array, tapped for a connection at each end, wound counter-clockwise from left to right with the same size, type, and number of windings as the tickler coil on the elevated transmission pad; and, the staff mounted in the gap of the transmitter elevated pad, which is non-ferrous, positioned along its length in the z-axis with respect to the plane of the elevated pad creating a point where an elevated sphere of aluminum is placed to add capacitance to the transmitter coils; and, the staff mounted in the gap of the receiver elevated pad, which is non-ferrous, positioned along its length in the z-axis with respect to the plane of the elevated pad creating a point where an elevated sphere of aluminum is placed to add capacitance to the receiver coils; and, comprising a resonant system with four to six of the tuned circuits, whose energy is exchanged in electrical currents transported across the field object formed in the coil arrangement between the tuned circuits of Tx and Rx in the form of a rotating sinusoidal wave and whose surface forms a standing wave pattern as a consequence of the resonator cavity formed by the tuned circuits. 2. A system for the transmission of wireless energy in the form of electrical currents as provided in claim 1, where the mobile receiver card (Rx') is comprised of output taps consisting of two sets of tubes, one smaller and set inside the other, insulated from contact between them, and made of paramagnetic materials such as brass and aluminum. 3. The system according to claim 2, where multiple receivers employing the tickler coil can be arranged such that the winding pattern and number of turns of the mobile coils is the same. 4. The system according to claim 3, where multiple receivers employing the tickler coil can be devised to operate mobile devices including wheeled and leg-jointed robots. 5. The system according to claim 3, where multiple receivers employing the ticker coil can be devised to operate on remote devices including repeater beacons. 6. The system according to claim 5, where multiple receivers can extend the broadcast range of the array by using repeaters. 7. A system for the transmission of wireless energy in the form of electrical currents as provided in claim 1, where the energy can be transported from transmitter (Tx) to receiver (Rx), the energy at receiver (Rx) to power devices consisting of a charging pad or miniature devices. 8. The system according to claim 7, where the device consuming the power is fixed or partially mobile and draws down electrical currents from the array with a matched-impedance load so that current can be drawn smoothly across the transmission facilitating linearly-rising power based upon its load. 9. A system for the transmission of wireless energy in the form of electrical currents as provided in claim 1, where the energy can be transported from transmitter (Tx) to mobile receiver (Rx'), available at the connection taps at each end of the coil. 10. The system according to claim 9, where the device consuming the power is mobile and whose distance from the array necessitates a stepped load so that current can be drawn smoothly across the transmission facilitating linearly-rising power. 11. A system for the transmission of wireless energy in the form of electrical currents as provided in claim 1, where the number of turns constituting the windings of the resonant transmission and receiving circuits of the primary is 1.85 and the number of turns of the secondary is 40.25. 12. A system for the transmission of wireless energy in the form of electrical currents as provided in claim 1, where the number of turns of winding constituting the third coil mounted in the gap of the elevated transmission pad is 74.75. 13. The system according to claim 1, where the number of turns of wire constituting the BNC shell mounted into the elevated pad and serving as the input (Tx) and output (Rx) is 18. 14. The system according to claim 1, where multiple receivers employing the flat spiral can be arranged such that the winding pattern and number of turns of the receivers is kept identical to the elevated receiving pad. 15. The system according to claim 14, where the radius of the coil is smaller than the elevated receiving pad. 16. The system according to claim 1, whose quotient of transmission energy is dependent upon the type of energy inputted to the Tx elevated pad. 17. The system according to claim 1, broadcasting a constant wave in a frequency-response range of 1 MHz to 100 MHz, including a signal capacity that extends into lower or higher ranges. 18. The system according to claim 1, whose transmission broadcast waveform is suitable for modulation by an information-bearing signal input at elevated pad Tx. 19. The system according to claim 18, whose transmission signal, as a measure of frequency serves as a carrier for amplitude, frequency, and pulse modulation--AM, FM, and PM respectively, where the AM and FM signals are used to transport information in the same instance as the transmission signal, and where the PM signals are used to echo the presence of receivers to the transmission system. 20. The system according to claim 19, whose transmission signal as a measure of frequency serves as a carrier for amplitude and frequency modulation, and whose transmission signal has a bandwidth at a great enough rate to facilitate communication and power at a distance. 21. The system according to claim 19, whose transmission signal is a composite of all modulation schemes and power is delivered simultaneously. 22. A system for the transmission of wireless energy in the form of electrical currents as provided in claim 1, whose mutual self-inductance gives rise to a self-adjusting efficiency given the array is operating at resonance. 23. The system according to claim 22, whose waveform is uniform, unmodulated emission transmitting energy in the form of electrical currents. 24. The system according to claim 1, forming a closed transmission environment exchanging energy between transmitter and receiver forming a pair of resonance objects. 25. The system according to claim 24, whose resonance objects are coupled in a rotating medium based on the motion of the charges through the spiral coil while their waves travel in media, including air or a dense gas, forming a wave-guide resonator structure whose properties include total internal reflection at its boundaries. 26. The system according to claim 24, whose resonance objects couple tightly and with minimal leakage, containing a high value of Q when power demand is high, while rejecting other potential resonance objects. 