Empty, flat folded storage bags which may be valve bags are prepared for filling with a flowable material, by seating and stacking a plurality of the bags on a fixed elevation base within a chamber of a bag holding magazine assembly, the resulting stack defining an initial stack rising from a lowermost one the bags on the base to an uppermost one of the bags. In a first cycle of operation, all but the lowermost bag is raised away from the base, the raised bags defining a depleted stack of bags. Then, while the depleted stack remains raised, the lowermost bag is removed from the chamber through a chamber outlet opening. Then, the depleted stack is lowered to seat a new lowermost bag on the base to complete first cycle. The cycle is repeated for each lowermost bag. When each bag is removed from the magazine chamber the bag may be conveyed to a bag pick-up position located away from the magazine assembly and, from there, automatically picked with a carrying tool located at the end of a robotic arm and transported to a bag filling station for filling with the flowable material. In the case of valve bags, the valve may be opened by the carrying tool at the time of pick-up.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of handling empty, flat folded storage bags in preparation for filling with a flowable material, each bag having opposed ends and opposed sides extending between said ends, said method comprising: (a) seating and stacking a plurality of said bags on a fixed elevation base within a chamber of a bag holding magazine assembly, the resulting stack defining an initial stack rising from a lowermost one of said bags on said base to an uppermost one of said bags; (b) then, raising within said chamber away from said base all but the lowermost bag, the raised bags defining a depleted stack of bags; (c) then, while the depleted stack remains raised, removing the lowermost bag from said chamber through a chamber outlet opening; (d) then, lowering the depleted stack to seat a new lowermost bag on said base; and, (e) then, repeating steps (b) to (d) for each new lowermost bag. 2. A method as described in claim 1, wherein each lowermost bag removed from said chamber is removed by: (a) feeding the bag to the outlet opening in the chamber; and, (b) conveying the bag through said outlet opening to a bag pick-up position located away from the magazine assembly. 3. A method as described in claim 1, wherein each lowermost bag removed from said chamber is removed by conveyance through the outlet opening in the chamber to a pick-up position located on a bag transfer station, said method further comprising: (i) automatically lifting the bag away from said pick-up position; and, (ii) automatically carrying the lifted bag to a bag filling station for filling with said flowable material. 4. A method as described in claim 1, wherein each of said bags is a valve bag having an openable flat-folded filling valve at one of its said ends, and wherein each lowermost bag removed from said chamber is removed with its valved end first. 5. A method as described in claim 2, wherein each of said bags is a valve bag having an openable flat-folded filling valve at one of its said ends, and wherein each lowermost bag removed from said chamber is removed with its valved end first. 6. A method as described in claim 3, wherein each of said bags is a valve bag having an openable flat-folded filling valve at one of its said ends, and wherein each lowermost bag removed from said chamber is removed with its valved end first. 7. A method as described in claim 6, said method further comprising opening said filling valve of each bag at said pick-up position before carrying the bag to said filling station. 8. A method as described in claim 7, wherein said filling valve of each bag is opened by applying an upward suction grip to a top surface of the valve while momentarily holding the bag at said pick-up position. 9. A method as described in claim 8, wherein said suction grip draws and holds the valved end of the bag in a valve shaping channel member of a bag carrying tool with the filling valve remaining open, said channel member comprising an elongated top and opposed sides extending downwardly and outwardly from said top to an open bottom; and wherein said grip is maintained while carrying the lifted bag to said bag filling station. 10. A method as described in claim 9, wherein said bag filling station comprises a filling nozzle where each bag is held for filling with said flowable material. 11. A method as described in claim 10, wherein said carrying tool introduces the filling valve of each bag to said filling nozzle at a significant forward angle of tilt, then pivots the bag with a wrist-like movement to reduce the angle of tilt while sliding the valve forwardly over the nozzle. 12. A method as described in claim 7, wherein said valve of each bag is opened by applying upward suction to a top surface of the valve while momentarily holding the bag at said pick-up position with downward suction applied to an opposed underside region of the bag. 13. A method as described in claim 1, wherein said chamber extends front to back between a chamber forward end and a chamber rearward end, and transversely between opposed chamber sides, and wherein each lowermost bag removed from said chamber is removed through the outlet opening in said rearward end. 14. A method as described in claim 13, wherein there is an adjustable distance between said chamber sides, said method further comprising as part of step (a) in claim 1: adjusting said distance to an amount limiting transverse movement of bags stacked within the chamber without impairing removal of the lowermost bag from the chamber through said outlet opening. 15. A method as described in claim 13, wherein each lowermost bag removed from said chamber is removed by: (a) feeding the bag to said outlet opening; and, (b) conveying the bag through said outlet opening to a position away from the chamber. 16. A method as described in claim 15, wherein each bag is fed endwise to said outlet opening and is conveyed endwise through said outlet opening. 17. A method as described in claim 16, wherein said base comprises a pair of spaced apart rails extending longitudinally between said forward end and said rearward end of said chamber, each rail having an upper surface forming part of the upper surface of said base, said method further comprising as part of step (b) in claim 1: gripping and downwardly bending the opposed sides of the lowermost bag below the rail upper surfaces before raising all but the lowermost bag, then releasing such grip prior to step (c) in claim 1. 18. A method as described in claim 17, wherein said grip is a suction grip. 19. A method as described in claim 17, wherein each lowermost bag fed to said outlet opening is fed by: gripping the bag in a region between said rails and moving the bag on said rails to said outlet opening, then releasing such grip prior to conveying the bag through said outlet opening. 20. A method as described in claim 19, wherein said grip between said rails is a suction grip. 21. A method as described in claim 20, wherein each lowermost bag conveyed away from said chamber is conveyed to a pick-up position located on a bag transfer station, said method further comprising: (a) automatically picking up each removed bag from said pick-up position; and, (b) automatically carrying each picked up bag to a bag filling station for filling with said flowable material. 22. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said bags are stacked between opposed sides of said chamber in successive groups of bags with back and forth longitudinal staggering between said groups. 23. A magazine assembly for handling and sequentially supplying bags from a stack of empty, flat folded storage bags in preparation for filling with a flowable material, each bag having opposed ends and opposed sides extending between said ends, and each bag having opposed top and bottom surfaces between said ends, said stack extending upwardly from a lowermost one of said bags to an uppermost one of said bags, said magazine assembly comprising: (a) a chamber for holding said stack, said chamber extending front to back between a forward end of the chamber and a rearward end of the chamber, and transversely between opposed sides of the chamber, said rearward end providing an outlet opening permitting removal of bags in said stack from the chamber through said outlet opening; (b) a fixed elevation base having an upper surface for providing a seating for said stack within said chamber with said lowermost bag resting on said base; said surface being aligned with said outlet opening; (c) an elevator mechanism for selectively raising within said chamber all but said lowermost bag while holding the lowermost bag on said base, the raised bags defining a depleted stack of bags, and for lowering and seating said depleted stack on said base when said lowermost bag has been removed from said chamber; and, (d) a bag removal mechanism for removing said lowermost bag from said chamber through said outlet opening while said depleted stack remains raised. 24. Apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said chamber sides are distanced from each other by an adjustable amount. 25. Apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said elevator mechanism comprises: (a) a pair of elevator guides, one positioned outside one side of said chamber, the other positioned outside the opposite side of said chamber; (b) a pair of elevator trucks each having a forward end comprising a plurality of lifting forks positioned between opposed sides of the truck, said trucks being carried and guided by respective ones of said guides for reciprocal movement in unison between lower positions where said forks are distanced away from said chamber and upper positions where said forks project into said chamber; (c) gripper mechanisms for gripping and downwardly bending the opposed sides of said lowermost bag when said bag is rested on said base; said elevator mechanism being disposed such that as said trucks move upwardly from said lower positions to said upper positions when the opposed sides of the lowermost bag are bent downwardly, then said forks bypass said lowermost bag and engage said stack below the bag next above the lowermost bag, such engagement occurring before said trucks reach maximally upward positions. 26. Apparatus as defined in claim 25, wherein each of said forks projects inwardly relative to said chamber at a downward angle. 27. Apparatus as defined in claim 26, wherein said angle is about 6 degrees. 28. Apparatus as defined in claim 25, wherein said forks on each truck have lengths which vary from relatively short lengths for those ones of said forks positioned towards opposed sides of the truck to longer lengths for those ones of said forks positioned midway between said sides. 29. Apparatus as defined in claim 28, wherein each of said forks projects inwardly relative to said chamber at a downward angle. 30. Apparatus as defined in claim 25, wherein said trucks are guided to travel along said guides at angle of about 35 degrees relative to the upper surface of said base. 31. Apparatus as defined in claim 30, wherein each of said forks projects inwardly relative to said chamber at a downward angle. 32. Apparatus as defined in claim 25, wherein said gripper mechanisms comprise: (a) a first plurality of pivotally mounted suction cups for releasably applying suction grips at a first plurality of locations on the bottom surface of one side of the said lowermost bag; and, (b) a second plurality of pivotally mounted suction cups for concurrently releasably applying suction grips at a second plurality of locations on the bottom surface of the opposed side of said lowermost bag. 33. Apparatus as defined in claim 32, further including: (a) a first plurality of plungers actionable on said stack for momentarily urging the bottom surface of the lowermost bag against said first plurality of suction cups when suction is applied; and, (b) a second plurality of plungers simultaneously actionable on said stack for momentarily urging the bottom surface of the lowermost bag against said second plurality of suction cups when suction is applied. 34. Apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said base comprises a pair of longitudinally extending rails, each rail having an upper surface forming part of the upper surface of said base, and wherein said bag removal mechanism comprises: (a) a feed mechanism for feeding said lowermost bag along said rails to said outlet opening; and, (b) means for conveying said lowermost bag through said outlet opening. 35. Apparatus as defined in claim 34, wherein said means for conveying said lowermost bag through said outlet opening comprises upper and lower cooperating rollers for rotationally grasping and drawing said bag through said outlet opening. 36. Apparatus as defined in claim 35, wherein said upper rollers are crowned pinch rollers. 37. Apparatus for handling and sequentially supplying bags from a stack of empty, flat folded storage bags in preparation for filling with a flowable material, each bag having opposed ends and opposed sides extending between said ends, each bag having opposed top and bottom surfaces between said ends, said stack extending upwardly from a lowermost one of said bags to an uppermost one of said bags, said apparatus comprising: (a) a magazine assembly as defined in claim 23; (b) a bag transfer station for receiving each lowermost bag removed from said magazine assembly through said outlet opening and for conveying the received bag to a pick-up position on said station. 38. Apparatus as defined in claim 37, wherein each of said bags is a valve bag having an openable flat-folded filling valve at one of its said ends, said apparatus further including means for automatically picking up each removed bag from said pick-up position and for automatically transporting each picked up bag to a bag filling station for filling with said flowable material. 39. Apparatus as defined in claim 38, wherein said means comprises a robotic arm having a distal end and a bag carrying tool mounted at said distal end. 40. Apparatus as defined in claim 39, wherein said transfer station and said carrying tool are adapted to cooperatively open said valve when the bag is picked up from the transfer station using said robotic arm. 41. Apparatus as defined in claim 40, wherein said carrying tool comprises a valve shaping channel member into which the valved end of each of said bags is drawn and held when picked up from said transfer station, said channel member comprising an elongated top and opposed sides extending downwardly and outwardly from said top to an open bottom. 