A device, method and computer readable-storage for mechanically handling impact-sensitive sheets of various formats ready for dispatch is described. The device has the following features: a) a control device in the form of a multi-axis robotic arm connected to a gripper device and means for mechanically gripping the sheets; b) the gripper device is hinged onto and suspended from the control device at a gentle incline by means of an adjustable damping device; c) the gripper device has sliding sections for the relative displacement of the means for mechanically gripping the sheets; d) the gripper device has means for determining the geometric dimensions of the sheets to be seized and for determining their set-down position; e) the gripper device has means for determining the exact positional co-ordinates of the set-down position; and f) the gripper device has means for gently feeding and depositing the sheets in the set-down position.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for mechanically grasping and setting down a plurality of impact-sensitive plates of various formats on at least one stack arrangement such that they are ready for dispatch, said device having the following features: a) a control device in the form of a multi-axis robot arm (25) having a gripping device and means for mechanically gripping the plates, b) the gripping device is coupled to the control device such that it is suspended in an inclined position by means of an adjustable damping device (9), c) the gripping device has slides (22) for displacing the means for mechanically gripping the plates, d) the gripping device has means for determining the geometric dimensions of the plates to be grasped and for determining a set-down position of these plates, e) the gripping device has means for determining the positional coordinates of the set-down position, and f) the gripping device has means for guiding the plates to the set-down position and depositing said plates there, wherein said plates are gripped by clamping an upper portion of the plates between at least one clamping jaw (3,4) and a clamping jaw support (5) opposite said at least one clamping jaw (3,4); wherein one or more pressure fingers (6) are used as means for preventing a plate stack from fanning out, wherein said one or more pressure fingers (6) are independently actuatable. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that one or both sides of the clamping jaw supports (5) are coated with a layer comprising a composite of cellular rubber, and a plastic, wherein the plastic represents the surface which makes direct contact with the plates. 3. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the gripping device is coupled to the control device such that it can be tilted at an angle of 5 degrees to 20 degrees. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3, characterized in that the adjustable damping device (9) can take over at least a large part of the weight of the gripping device. 5. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that movements of the robot arm (25) unlock and/or fix the slides (22) for displacing the clamping jaws (3) and/or (4). 6. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that it has sensors for acquiring all the data required for the movement sequences which occur. 7. The device as claimed in claim 6, characterized in that the sensors are ultrasonic sensors and/or sensors on the basis of electromagnetic processes and/or sensors that operate with electromagnetic waves. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that, in order to reduce weight, the gripping device is composed in part or entirely of lightweight materials such as GFP, aluminum or titanium. 9. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the slides (22) for the relative displacement of the means for mechanically gripping the plates are unlocked and/or reset and/or locked again by electromechanical means. 10. The device as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that, when a plurality of plate stacks (13) are placed one on top of the other, the control device can select bearing strips suitable for deposition between two plate stacks (13) from a corresponding store. 11. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one clamping jaw (3,4) is slidably displaceable relative to said clamping jaw support (5). 12. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least one clamping jaw (3,4) is rotatable away from an upper positioning region of the plates such that the clamping jaw support (5) can press the inclined plates into the set-down position. 13. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said clamping jaws are aligned parallel to a surface of the plates when the plates are gripped. 14. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the gripping device is coupled to the control device such that it can be tilted at an angle of 7 degrees to 10 degrees. 15. The device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a computer-readable storage for causing the device to mechanically grasp and set down a plurality of impact sensitive plates of various formats on at least one stack arrangement such that they are ready for dispatch. 16. A process for mechanically grasping and setting down impact-sensitive plates of various formats on at least one stack arrangement, such that they are ready for dispatch, by means of a control device in the form of a multi-axis robot arm which has a gripping device for mechanically gripping the plates, said process having the following process steps: a) the geometric dimensions of the plates (13) to be transported are determined and the plates (13) are gripped via at least one collet chuck (3, 4), b) the plates (13) to be transported are guided to a set-down position and deposited there, c) the at least one collet chuck (3, 4) is loosened, d) the gripping device is moved back by a distance in a direction which leads away from the positioning location, as a result of which the plates (13) are tilted by an angle, e) at least one pressure finger (6) is guided along the lower parts of the surface in order to prevent the inclined plates (13) from fanning out, f) at least one collet chuck (3, 4) grips the compact stack of inclined plates (13), and the stack is then guided and deposited in flush fashion on the bottom edge of the set-down position, and g) the at least one collet chuck (3, 4) is rotated away from the upper positioning region of the plates and the inclined plates are then pressed against the rear wall of the positioning region. 17. The process as claimed in claim 16, characterized in that, before the positioning operation, suitable bearing strips from a store containing various bearing strip formats are automatically placed on the previous layer of plate stacks as an intermediate layer when a plurality of plate stacks (13) are placed one on top of the other. 18. A computer readable storage with a program code for carrying out all of the process steps as claimed in claim 16 when the program code is executed on a computer. 19. A computer program with a program code, which is stored on a machine-readable storage medium, for carrying out the process as claimed in claim 16, if the program is executed on a computer. 