A medical robot for use inside a magnetic resonance imager includes a horizontal motion assembly, a vertical motion assembly and a controller. The horizontal motion assembly includes a motion joint, an ultrasonic motor operably connected to the motion joint and an encoder operably connected to the ultrasonic motor. The motor and encoder are positioned proximate to the joint of the horizontal motion assembly. The vertical motion assembly is operably connected to the horizontal motion assembly and it includes a motion joint, an ultrasonic motor operably connected to the motion joint and an encoder operably connected to the ultrasonic motor. The motor and encoder are positioned proximate to the joint of the vertical motion assembly. The controller is operably connected thereto and is adapted to be powered off when the magnetic resonance imager is being used to collect images. A medical instrument assembly is connectable to the medical robot.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A medical robot for use inside a magnetic resonance imager connectable to a medical instrument assembly comprising: a horizontal motion assembly including a horizontal motion joint, a horizontal ultrasonic rotary motor operably connected to said horizontal motion joint, a horizontal lead screw operably connected to said horizontal ultrasonic rotary motor, and a horizontal encoder operably connected to said horizontal ultrasonic rotary motor, wherein said horizontal ultrasonic rotary motor and said horizontal encoder are positioned proximate to said horizontal motion joint; a vertical motion assembly operably connected to the horizontal motion assembly, the vertical motion assembly including a vertical motion joint, a vertical ultrasonic rotary motor operably connected to said vertical motion joint, a vertical lead screw operably connected to the vertical ultrasonic rotary motor, and a vertical encoder operably connected to said vertical ultrasonic rotary motor, wherein said vertical ultrasonic rotary motor and said vertical encoder are positioned proximate to said vertical motion joint and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly; a controller operably connected to the horizontal motion joint and the vertical motion joint; and a plurality of gearing mechanisms, one attached to each of the ultrasonic rotary motors for reducing the rotational speed of the robot. 2. The medical robot as claimed in claim 1 further including a pan assembly operably connected to one of the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the pan assembly including a pan joint, a pan ultrasonic rotary motor operably connected to the pan joint and a pan encoder operably connected to the pan ultrasonic rotary motor, the pan ultrasonic rotary motor and pan encoder are positioned proximate to the pan joint and the pan assembly being operably connected to the controller. 3. The medical robot as claimed in claim 2 further including a tilt assembly operably connected to one of the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the tilt assembly, the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the tilt assembly including a tilt joint, a tilt ultrasonic rotary motor operably connected to the tilt joint and a tilt encoder operably connected to the tilt ultrasonic rotary motor, the tilt ultrasonic rotary motor and the tilt encoder are positioned proximate to the tilt joint, and the tilt assembly being operably connected to the controller. 4. The medical robot as claimed in claim 3 further including a roll assembly operably connected to one of the tilt assembly, the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the roll assembly, the tilt assembly, the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the roll assembly including a roll joint and a roll ultrasonic rotary motor operably connected to the roll joint and a roll encoder operably connected to the roll ultrasonic rotary motor, the roll ultrasonic rotary motor and the roll encoder are positioned proximate to the roll joint, and the roll assembly being operably connected to the controller. 5. The medical robot as claimed in claim 4 wherein the tilt assembly and the roll assembly are a combined tilt and roll assembly. 6. The medical robot as claimed in claim 5 wherein the horizontal motion assembly further includes a pair of spur gears operably connected between the horizontal lead screw and a horizontal plate. 7. The medical robot as claimed in claim 6 wherein the vertical motion assembly further includes a timing belt and pair of pulleys operably connected between the vertical lead screw and a vertical plate. 8. The medical robot as claimed in claim 7 wherein the pan assembly further includes a pan shaft assembly operably connected to the pan ultrasonic rotary motor, a timing belt and pulleys operably connected to the pan shaft assembly and operably connectable to the medical instrument assembly. 9. The medical robot as claimed in claim 8 wherein the combined tilt and roll assembly further includes a bevel gear differential mechanism operably connected to the tilt ultrasonic motor and the roll ultrasonic rotary motor and the bevel gear differential mechanism is operably connectable to the medical instrument assembly. 10. The medical robot as claimed in claim 5 wherein the medical instrument assembly is a trocar and the trocar is operably connected to the controller. 11. The medical robot as claimed in claim 5 wherein the medical instrument assembly includes a pushing and pulling mechanism operably connected to an ultrasonic rotary motor positioned proximate thereto whereby the pushing and pulling mechanism provides linear motion. 12. The medical robot as claimed in claim 11 wherein the pushing and pulling mechanism includes a lead screw operably connected to the ultrasonic motor, a holder operably connected to the lead screw and the holder being adapted to hold a laser applicator and further including a locker operably connected to the lead screw. 13. The medical robot as claimed in claim 11 wherein the medical instrument assembly further includes a laser diffuser with a retractable titanium sheath. 14. The medical robot as claimed in claim 13 wherein the medical instrument assembly further includes a pneumatically driven tapping block operably connected to the pushing and pulling mechanism. 15. The medical robot as claimed in claim 5 further including a control system operably connected to the controller and remote from and isolated from the controller. 16. The medical robot as claimed in claim 1 wherein the medical instrument is removable and sterilizeable. 17. The medical robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to be powered off when the magnetic resonance imager is scanning. 18. The medical robot as claimed in claim 17 further including a pan assembly operably connected to one of the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the pan assembly including a pan joint, a pan ultrasonic rotary motor operably connected to the pan joint and a pan encoder operably connected to the pan ultrasonic rotary motor, the pan ultrasonic rotary motor and pan encoder are positioned proximate to the pan joint and the pan assembly being operably connected to the controller; and further including a tilt assembly operably connected to one of the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly and the medical instrument assembly is operably connectable to one of the tilt assembly, the pan assembly, the vertical motion assembly and the horizontal motion assembly, the tilt assembly including a tilt joint, a tilt ultrasonic rotary motor operably connected to the tilt joint and a tilt encoder operably connected to the tilt ultrasonic rotary motor, the tilt ultrasonic rotary motor and the tilt encoder are positioned proximate to the tilt joint, and the tilt assembly being operably connected to the controller. 19. A method of controlling a medical robot attachable to a medical instrument assembly, the medical robot including ultrasonic motors, encoders and a controller, whereby the ultrasonic rotary motors, encoders, and controller are each powered by a separate power source, the medical robot is for use in a magnetic resonance imager in association with a body, the method comprising the steps of: moving the ultrasonic motors in the medical robot via the controller to position the medical robot outside the body; turning off the power source to the controller while the power source to the encoders and ultrasonic rotary motors remain on; turning on the magnetic resonance imager and imaging; turning off the magnetic resonance imager; turning on the power source to the controller; moving the ultrasonic rotary motors thereby moving the medical instrument assembly in the medical robot and whereby a portion of the medical instrument assembly is inside the body; turning off the power source to the while the power source to the encoders and ultrasonic rotary motors remain on; and turning on the magnetic resonance imager. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the combination of the medical robot and the medical instrument assembly is a six degree of freedom medical robot and the ultrasonic rotary motors are adapted to be positionable within the isocentre of the medical resonance imager. 