The present invention provides antisense compounds and methods for modulating the expression of target genes expressed in the kidney. In particular, this invention provides antisense oligonucleotide compounds optimized for targeting nucleic acid molecules expressed in the kidney. Such compounds are shown herein to efficiently modulate the expression of target genes SGLT2 and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in the kidney.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: identifying an animal in which reduction of a preselected target RNA in a kidney cell is desired; administering to said animal an antisense oligonucleotide optimized for kidney targeting comprising 8 to 80 linked nucleosides and that is substantially complementary to said preselected target RNA, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises a central region consisting of at least 5 contiguous 2'-deoxy nucleosides flanked by a 5' region and a 3' region, wherein said 5' region and said 3' region each independently consists of at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleoside, and wherein the internucleoside linkages of the central region are phosphorothioate linkages and the internucleoside linkages of the 3' region and of the 5' region are phosphodiester linkages; and thereby reducing the amount of said preselected target RNA in the kidney cell in said animal. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 10 to 50 linked nucleosides. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 13 to 30 linked nucleosides. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 15 to 25 linked nucleosides. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 18 to 22 linked nucleosides. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 70% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 80% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 90% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 95% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 10. A method comprising: identifying an animal in which reduction of a preselected target RNA in a kidney cell is desired; administering to said animal an antisense oligonucleotide optimized for kidney targeting comprising 8 to 80 linked nucleosides and that is substantially complementary to said preselected target RNA, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises a central region consisting of at least 5 contiguous 2'-deoxy nucleosides flanked by a 5' region and a 3' region, wherein said 5' region and said 3' region each independently consists of at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleoside, and wherein the internucleoside linkages of the central region are phosphorothioate linkages and the internucleoside linkages of the 3' region and of the 5' region are phosphodiester linkages except that one or both of the extreme 5' linkage of the 5' region and the extreme 3' linkage of the 3' region are phosphorothioate linkages and; thereby reducing the amount of said preselected target RNA in the kidney cell in said animal. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 10 to 50 linked nucleosides. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 13 to 30 linked nucleosides. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 15 to 25 linked nucleosides. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide comprises 18 to 22 linked nucleosides. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 70% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 80% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 90% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein said antisense oligonucleotide has at least 95% complementarity with a nucleic acid molecule encoding said preselected cellular RNA target. 19. The method of claim 1 or claim 10 wherein the animal is selected from mouse, rat, and human. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the animal is human. 21. The method of claim 1 or claim 10 wherein the animal has a metabolic disease or condition. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the metabolic disease or condition is diabetes. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the metabolic disease or condition is type 2 diabetes. 24. The method of claim 1 or claim 10 wherein the said preselected target RNA encodes SGLT2. 25. The method of claim 1 or claim 10 wherein said preselected target RNA encodes CTGF. 