Apparatuses and methods for treating wounds are disclosed. An apparatus for treating wounds is disclosed comprising an instrument for generating a low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma, a means of flowing gas through the instrument, and a means of contacting the wound with the reactive gases flowing out of the instrument. A method for treating wounds using reactive gases is disclosed. The use of atmospheric pressure plasmas for treating wounds is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a plasma generating device for producing a flow of gas comprising at least one reactive gas species in a low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma; a nozzle coupled to the plasma generating device for delivering the at least one reactive gas species to a wound; a cooling system including a cooling fluid circulating around the nozzle to cool the flow of the gas; and a proximity sensor for providing a feedback signal indicating proximity of the nozzle to the wound; wherein the low temperature, atmospheric plasma is generated by applying radio frequency power to at least one of closely spaced electrodes sufficient to breakdown the gas and form a capacitive discharge, the closely spaced electrodes comprising a first surface of a first electrode and a second surface of a second electrode machined into the same shape forming a uniform gap between the surfaces in contact with the gas flow where the low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma is generated. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a gas flow system providing the flow of the gas to the plasma generating device. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an electrical power supply coupled to the plasma generating device for generating the at least one reactive gas species. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the nozzle comprises a shape selected from the group consisting of a disc, a rectangle, a cone, and a hemisphere, wherein the shape has at least one opening for the at last one reactive gas species to flow out. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plasma generating device comprises a hand-held device. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm coupled to the plasma generating device for scanning the at least one reactive gas species over the wound. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a control unit coupled to the plasma generating device for supplying a rate and gas composition of the gas flow and electric power to the plasma generating device for generating the at least one reactive gas species. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a detachable end cap over the nozzle for protecting the wound from cross-contamination. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an exhaust gas system for drawing any potentially harmful gases in the gas flow including the at least one reactive gas species away from a patient with the wound. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one reactive gas species is selected from the group consisting of oxygen atoms, nitrogen atoms, hydrogen atoms, and hydroxyl radicals. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the nozzle includes a chemical outlet for delivering a chemical compound to the wound. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one reactive gas species causes the chemical compound to bond to cells of the wound. 13. A method comprising: flowing a gas; generating a low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma comprising at least one reactive gas species; delivering the at least one reactive gas species to a wound; cooling the low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma so that the gas flow containing the at least one reactive gas species is at a reduced temperature contacting the wound; and providing a feedback signal indicating proximity of a nozzle for delivering the at least one reactive gas species to the wound; wherein the low temperature, atmospheric plasma is generated by applying radio frequency power to at least one of closely spaced electrodes sufficient to breakdown the gas and form a capacitive discharge, the closely spaced electrodes comprising a first surface of a first electrode and a second surface of a second electrode machined into the same shape forming a uniform gap between the surfaces in contact with the gas flow where the low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma is generated. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one reactive gas species is delivered through an outlet nozzle comprising a shape selected from the group consisting of a disc, a rectangle, a cone, and a hemisphere, wherein each shape has at least one hole or slit for the reactive gas to flow out. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one reactive gas species is delivered to the wound with a hand-held device. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising scanning the at least one reactive gas species over the wound with a robotic arm coupled to the plasma generating device. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising protecting the wound from cross-contamination with a detachable end cap over a nozzle for delivering the at least one reactive gas species to the wound. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the gas comprises a mixture of gas species, selected from the group consisting of oxygen, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, nitrogen, nitrous oxide, ammonia, water, air, helium, and argon. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one reactive gas species is selected from the group consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, and hydroxyl radicals. 20. The method of claim 13, further comprising delivering a chemical compound to the wound in combination with the at least one reactive gas species. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least one reactive gas species causes the chemical compound to bond to cells of the wound. 22. An apparatus comprising: means for flowing a gas; means for generating a low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma from the flowing gas that contains at least one reactive gas species; means for delivering the at least one reactive gas species to a wound; means for cooling the low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma so that the gas flow containing the at least one reactive gas species is at a reduced temperature contacting the wound; and means for providing a feedback signal indicating proximity of the nozzle to the wound; wherein the low temperature, atmospheric plasma is generated by applying radio frequency power to at least one of closely spaced electrodes sufficient to breakdown the gas and form a capacitive discharge, the closely spaced electrodes comprising a first surface of a first electrode and a second surface of a second electrode machined into the same shape forming a uniform gap between the surfaces in contact with the gas flow where the low temperature, atmospheric pressure plasma is generated. 