Systems, apparatus and methods are disclosed for allowing electrical connection to an electrical end effector in a robot apparatus. In one aspect, an electrical coupling is adapted to provide electrical power to the electrical end effector in the vacuum chamber. The electrical coupling may include engaging electrical contacts. In some embodiments, at least one of the contacts may be suspended relative to a spring such that the engaging contacts do not rotate relative to each other during arm rotation of the robot. In other embodiments, inductively coupled coils are included. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system, comprising: a vacuum chamber; a robot apparatus adapted to transport substrates within the vacuum chamber, the robot apparatus including: a plurality of arms adapted to be rotated within the vacuum chamber, an electrical end effector attached to at least one of the plurality of arms, and an electrical coupling comprising selectively engaging contacts, the electrical coupling adapted to provide electrical energy to the electrical end effector in the vacuum chamber. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the electrical coupling comprises an electromagnet operative to move a first set of the selectively engaging contacts into contact with a second set of the selectively engaging contacts. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the electrical coupling comprises inductively coupleable coils. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein an electrical circuit connected to the electrical end effector passes through rotation joints of the plurality of arms. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the electrical coupling comprises a moveable member suspended by a spring member. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the moveable member includes electrical contacts. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the electrical coupling includes an electromagnet adapted to cause movement of the moveable member and an engagement of the electrical contacts with electrical contacts coupled to a shaft of the robot apparatus. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the electrical coupling comprises an engaging recess and pilot adapted to align engaging electrical contacts. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the electrical coupling is electrically coupled to a capacitor member adapted to provide energy to the electrical end effector. 10. A substrate transporting robot apparatus adapted to move substrates within an electronic device processing system, comprising: a robot including at least one moveable arm and an electrical end effector attached to the at least one moveable arm; and an electrical coupling comprising selectively engaging electrical contacts, the electrical coupling adapted to provide electrical energy from a power source to the electrical end effector. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the selectively engaging electrical contacts comprise opposing pairs of annular rings. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the electrical coupling comprises inductively coupleable coils. 13. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the electrical coupling comprises a moveable member suspended by a spring member. 14. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the spring member is adapted to allow rotation of the moveable member in torsion such that the moveable member rotates with a shaft coupled to the robot apparatus when the electrical coupling is in an engaged condition. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the electrical coupling comprises an electromagnet adapted to move a first set of electrical contacts of the selectively engaging electrical contacts into contact with a second set of electrical contacts of the selectively engaging electrical contacts. 16. A method of moving a substrate within an electronic device processing tool, comprising the steps of: providing a robot within a vacuum chamber, the robot including an electrical end effector; and supplying electrical energy to electrical leads coupled to the electrical end effector by passing the electrical current through selectively engageable contacts. 17. A substrate transporting robot apparatus adapted to move substrates within an electronic device processing system, comprising: a robot including moveable arms and an electrical end effector attached to one of the arms; an electrical coupling comprising selectively engaging electrical contacts; and electrical leads coupled to the electrical end effector which pass through rotational joints of the moveable arms, wherein electrical energy is supplied to the electrical leads by passing an electrical current through the selectively engaging electrical contacts. 18. The substrate transporting robot apparatus of claim 17 wherein the electrical leads are clamped at locations proximate the rotational joints. 19. The substrate transporting robot apparatus of claim 18 wherein the electrical leads are clamped in channels by a clamping member. 20. The substrate transporting robot apparatus of claim 17 further comprising a positioning member adapted to approximately align the electrical leads with a center of the rotational joints. 21. The substrate transporting robot apparatus of claim 17 wherein the electrical leads connect between the electrical end effector and an electrical coupling including selectively engageable contacts or inductively coupleable coils. 