The invention describes compositions and method useful for the crystallization of membrane proteins.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A composition for lipidic cubic phase crystallization of a membrane protein, comprising a polyethylene glycol or modified polyethylene glycol, wherein said polyethylene glycol has an average molecular weight of 300 to 2,000; 0.1 to 0.5 M of a salt; a host lipid, wherein said host lipid is a monoacylglycerol; a lipid additive, wherein said lipid additive is a sterol, and wherein said sterol is present at a concentration of 5-20% w/w in said host lipid; a buffer, wherein said buffer has a pH between 4.5-8.0; and 1 to 100 mg/ml of a membrane protein. 2. The composition of claim 1, wherein said salt is selected from the group consisting of a sulfate salt, a citrate salt, a malonate salt, a tartrate salt, an acetate salt, and a formate salt. 3. The composition of claim 2, wherein said salt is present at a concentration of 0.1-0.2 M. 4. The composition of claim 1, wherein said buffer is present at a concentration of 0.05-0.5 M. 5. The composition of claim 1, further comprising an alcohol present at a concentration of 1-10% v/v. 6. The composition of claim 5, wherein said alcohol is present at a concentration of 5-7% v/v. 7. The composition of claim 5, wherein said alcohol is a diol or triol. 8. The composition of claim 1 wherein said host lipid is selected from the group consisting of monopalmitolein, monovaccenin and monoolein. 9. The composition of claim 1 wherein said protein to be crystallized in said composition is present at a concentration of 40-60 mg/mL. 10. The composition of claim 1 wherein said membrane protein is a G-protein coupled receptor. 11. The composition of claim 1, wherein said membrane protein comprises a .beta..sub.2AR protein. 12. The composition of claim 11, further comprising a ligand selected from the group consisting of carazolol, timolol, alprenolol, and clenbutorol. 13. A method of generating crystals of a membrane protein comprising: mixing a lipid additive with a host lipid to form a lipid mixture, wherein said host lipid is a monoacylglycerol, and wherein said lipid additive is a sterol, and wherein said lipid additive is 5 to 20% w/w in said host lipid; and combining said lipid mixture with a membrane protein solution to form a protein-lipid mixture, wherein said membrane protein is present in said protein-lipid mixture at a concentration of between 1 and 100 mg/ml; and overlaying said protein-lipid mixture with a precipitant solution, wherein said precipitant solution comprises a polyethylene glycol or modified polyethylene glycol, wherein said polyethylene glycol has an average molecular weight of 300 to 2000; 0.1 to 0.5 M of a salt; and a buffer, wherein said buffer has a pH between 4.5-8.0. 14. A method of screening a crystal of a GPCR present in a liquid cubic phase composition comprising: preparing a lipidic cubic phase composition, wherein said composition comprises a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) protein, a polyethylene glycol or modified polyethylene glycol, wherein said polyethylene glycol has an average molecular weight of 300 to 2,000; 0.1 to 0.5 M of a salt; a host lipid, wherein said host lipid is a monoacylglycerol; a lipid additive, wherein said lipid additive is a sterol and wherein said sterol is present at a concentration of 5-20% w/w in said host lipid; and a buffer, wherein said buffer has a pH between 4.5-8.0; and exposing said composition to a first X-ray beam and determining a change in direction or intensity of said first X-ray beam; exposing said composition to a second beam and determining a change in direction or intensity of said second X-ray beam; identifying an area where said GPCR crystal is present in said composition; and exposing said identified area to at least a third X-ray beam. 