An apparatus and method for determining optimized path traversal in a radiation delivery system is described. In one embodiment, determining an optimized path traversal in a radiation delivery system involves providing a plurality of spatial nodes used in a treatment plan, where each of the plurality of spatial nodes represents a position of a radiation source made available to the treatment plan for delivering radiation to a target, identifying a number of unused spatial nodes, from among the plurality of spatial nodes, at which radiation is not delivered according to the treatment plan, and skipping travel to one or more of the unused nodes by the radiation source when administering the treatment plan. Other embodiments are also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: providing a plurality of spatial nodes used in a treatment plan, wherein the plurality of spatial nodes is a partial set selected from a superset of all possible spatial nodes, each of the plurality of spatial nodes representing a position of a radiation source made available to the treatment plan for delivering radiation to a target; identifying a number of unused spatial nodes, from among the plurality of spatial nodes, at which radiation is not delivered according to the treatment plan; and skipping travel to one or more of the unused nodes by the radiation source when administering the treatment plan. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a collision-free path of travel for the radiation source that does not contain an obstruction between any two consecutive spatial nodes according to the treatment plan. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining a collision-free path of travel for the radiation source that contains no obstruction, by skipping the one or more of the unused spatial nodes. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising moving the radiation source along the collision-free path of travel that does not contain an obstruction between any two consecutive spatial nodes in the administering of the treatment plan after the skipping travel to one or more of the unused nodes by the radiation source. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising moving the radiation source according to the collision-free path of travel to deliver radiation treatments at a number of selected spatial nodes. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the determining of a collision-free path of travel for the radiation source is based upon at least one of a look-up table or a reference database that is generated from an off-line simulation. 7. The method of claim 3, further comprising moving the radiation source according to treatment plan where the radiation source skips one or more unused spatial nodes and travels in a shorter path defined by a path without the one or more unused spatial nodes relative to a path with the one or more unused spatial nodes. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of spatial nodes is ordered in sequence from a lowest sequenced spatial node to a highest sequenced spatial node. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the treatment plan begins from the home position to the lowest sequenced spatial node and terminates at the home position after the highest sequenced spatial node. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more unused nodes is skipped if a path of travel between a spatial node before and a spatial node after the one or more unused nodes has no obstruction. 11. The method of 1 wherein the radiation source is coupled to a robotic arm having 5 or more degrees of freedom. 12. An apparatus, comprising: means for providing a plurality of spatial nodes used in a treatment plan, wherein the plurality of spatial nodes is a partial set selected from a superset of all possible spatial nodes, each of the plurality of spatial nodes representing a position of a radiation source made available to the treatment plan for delivering radiation; and means for skipping travel to a number of unused spatial nodes, from among the plurality of spatial nodes, where radiation is not delivered according to the treatment plan, while maintaining a collision-free path of travel for the radiation source that has no obstruction. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein an original path of travel further comprises the plurality of spatial nodes wherein each of the spatial node in the plurality of spatial nodes is visited in an order defined by the treatment plan to travel along a path that is obstruction-free. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the radiation source delivers radiation treatments at a set of useable spatial nodes in the plurality of spatial nodes that prescribes an equally effective dose to a target as if the radiation source delivers treatment at each of the spatial node in the plurality of spatial nodes in the treatment plan. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the plurality of spatial nodes is ordered in sequence from a lowest sequenced spatial node to a highest sequenced spatial node. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the collision-free path of travel and the original path of travel follows an order that begins with the lowest sequenced spatial node and terminates after the highest sequenced spatial node. 17. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the radiation source is coupled to a robotic arm having 5 or more degrees of freedom. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the robotic arm has 6 degrees of freedom comprising 5 rotational degrees of freedom and 1 substantially vertical, linear degree of freedom. 19. A system, comprising: a radiation source; a processor coupled to the radiation source, the processor is configured to determine if travel paths between each of a plurality of spatial nodes and rest of the plurality of spatial nodes has an obstruction, each of the plurality of spatial nodes representing a position in space in which the radiation source can occupy in a workspace, wherein the plurality of spatial nodes is a partial set selected from a superset of all possible spatial nodes; the processor is further configured to determine one or more of unused spatial nodes in the plurality of spatial nodes that can be skipped to reduce time to complete a path of travel where the radiation source delivers treatment at a number of used spatial nodes in the plurality of spatial nodes; and the processor is further configured to determine a new travel plan for the radiation source by skipping the one or more of the unused spatial nodes; and a database coupled to the processor, the database is configured to store, information about the travel paths, the one or more of unused spatial nodes that can be skipped, and the new travel plan for the radiation source. 20. A machine-accessible medium that provides instructions that, if executed by a machine, will cause the machine to perform operations, comprising: providing a plurality of spatial nodes used in a treatment plan, wherein the plurality of spatial nodes is a partial set selected from a superset of all possible spatial nodes, each of the plurality of spatial nodes representing a position of a radiation source made available to the treatment plan for delivering radiation to a target; identifying a number of unused spatial nodes, from among the plurality of spatial nodes, at which radiation is not delivered according to the treatment plan; and skipping travel to one or more of the unused nodes by the radiation source when administering the treatment plan. 21. The machine-accessible medium of claim 20, further providing instructions that, if executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising: determining a collision-free path of travel for the radiation source that does not contain an obstruction between any two consecutive spatial nodes according to the treatment plan. 22. The machine-accessible medium of claim 20, further providing instructions that, if executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising: determining a collision-free path of travel for the radiation source that contains no obstruction, by skipping the one or more of the unused spatial nodes. 23. The machine-accessible medium of claim 22, wherein the determining of a collision-free path of travel for the radiation source is based upon at least one of a look-up table or a reference database that is generated from an off-line simulation. 24. The machine-accessible medium of claim 22, further providing instructions that, if executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising: moving the radiation source according to the collision-free path of travel to deliver radiation treatments at a number of selected spatial nodes. 25. The machine-accessible medium of claim 20, wherein the plurality of spatial nodes is ordered in sequence from a lowest sequenced spatial node to a highest sequenced spatial node. 26. The machine-accessible medium of claim 20, wherein the one or more unused nodes is skipped if a path of travel between a spatial node before and a spatial node after the one or more unused nodes has no obstruction. 27. The machine-accessible medium of claim 20, wherein the radiation source is coupled to a robotic arm having 5 or more degrees of freedom. 