Automated ultrasonic scanning of a chestwardly compressed breast of a supine patient uses a scanning assembly that moves down to compress the breast through a membrane that is secured to the assembly across a bottom opening. A motorized ultrasound transducer moves across the breast while the breast remains downwardly compressed against the patient's chest, sending and receiving ultrasound energy through the membrane. The membrane is porous with respect to an acoustic coupling liquid that impregnates it. The transducer outputs ultrasound information that is processed to form initial planar images and then reconstructed slice images of breast tissue.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for ultrasonically scanning a chestwardly compressed breast of a patient, comprising: a support arm; and a compression/scanning assembly supported by the support arm and configured to move under operator control between a non-scanning position in which the assembly is out of contact with the patient's breast to a scanning position in which the assembly is in contact with the breast and compresses the breast chestwardly, wherein said compression/scanning assembly comprises: (i) a housing member supported by the support arm, said housing member having an opening; (ii) a compressive membrane secured to said assembly across at least a part of said opening of said housing member and positioned to contact the breast and compress the breast in a chestward direction as the compression/scanning assembly is moving into said scanning position, and to maintain the breast compressed when in said scanning position, wherein said compressive membrane is porous with respect to an acoustic coupling liquid; (iii) an ultrasound transducer disposed within the housing member; and (iv) a transducer translation mechanism disposed within the housing member and coupled to the ultrasound transducer, the transducer translation mechanism being configured to mechanically control the ultrasound transducer when said compression/scanning assembly is in said scanning position to maintain contact with said compressive membrane while scanning the breast through said compressive membrane. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the compression/scanning assembly is configured to be above the supine patient and out of contact with an upwardly facing breast when in said non-scanning position, and the compression/scanning assembly is configured to move downwardly into contact with the upwardly facing breast and into said scanning position, said opening in the housing member being a lower opening. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said compressive membrane is a chiffon or organza fabric sheet. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support arm is an articulated, movable arm. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said compressive membrane is disposable. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said assembly is configured to move under hand control by the operator between said scanning and non-scanning positions. 7. A method for ultrasonically scanning a breast of a patient, comprising: providing a compression/scanning assembly that includes a housing member having an opening and a compressive membrane secured to said assembly across at least a part of the opening, the compressive membrane being porous with respect to an acoustic coupling liquid, the compression/scanning assembly being supported by a support arm in a non-scanning position out of contact with the patient's breast; selectively manipulating the compression/scanning assembly from the non-scanning position out of contact with the patient's breast toward and into a scanning position in which the compressive membrane is in contact with the breast and compresses the breast in a chestward direction; impregnating the compressive membrane with acoustic coupling liquid before and/or after the assembly is in contact with the breast; after the compression/scanning assembly is in said scanning position and the compressive membrane is impregnated with acoustic couplant, scanning the breast through the acoustic couplant impregnated compressive membrane with a mechanically controlled ultrasound transducer contained within said housing member of the compression/scanning assembly, the ultrasound transducer being maintained in contact with said acoustic couplant impregnated compressive membrane while scanning the breast therethrough. 8. The method of claim 7, the patient being supine and the breast being upwardly facing, said opening in the housing member being a lower opening, the non-scanning position of the compression/scanning assembly being above the supine patient and out of contact with the upwardly facing breast, and said selectively manipulating causing the compression/scanning assembly to move downwardly toward and into said scanning position in contact with the upwardly facing breast. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said providing comprises providing a compressive membrane comprising a chiffon or organza fabric sheet. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein said proving comprises providing a support arm comprising an articulated, movable arm. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein said providing comprises providing said compressive membrane in the form of a disposable member, the method further comprising: prior to said selectively manipulating, installing the disposable compressive membrane across said opening of said housing member; and subsequent to said scanning, removing the disposable compressive membrane from said housing and disposing of said disposable compressive membrane. 12. A method of imaging a chestwardly compressed breast of a patient with ultrasound, comprising: providing a scanning assembly and a computer facility; removably securing at one side of the scanning assembly a single-use membrane that is porous with respect to an acoustic coupling liquid or gel; moving the scanning assembly in a chestward direction toward a patient until the membrane contacts and chestwardly compresses a breast of the patient in a scanning position of said assembly; supplying said coupling liquid or gel to the membrane at one or more selected times relative to said moving of the scanning assembly; when the scanning assembly is in said scanning position, causing an ultrasound transducer in said assembly to scan the compressed breast through said membrane and liquid or gel supplied thereto by moving the transducer in a selected direction relative to the membrane and the compressed breast while sending ultrasound energy from the transducer into the breast and receiving ultrasound energy returned to the transducer from the breast; computer-processing the ultrasound energy received by the transducer from the breast to generate initial ultrasound breast images conforming to planes that are generally transverse to said chestward direction, using said computer facility; further computer-processing said initial ultrasound breast images to generate further ultrasound images of the breast that conform to planes transverse to the planes of the initial ultrasound images, using said computer facility; selectively displaying at least some of said initial and/or further ultrasound images of the patient's breast; and moving the scanning assembly out of contact with the patient's breast, to a non-scanning position and removing the membrane from the assembly. 