Various embodiments provide keyboards that utilize electrically-deformable material as an actuating mechanism to provide haptic feedback to a user of the keyboard. In at least some embodiments, the electrically-deformable material is utilized to impart, to a depressed key or keyboard element, a multi-vectored movement that produces a perceived acceleration of the key or keyboard element thus providing a user with haptic feedback which simulates a snapover movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly comprising: an electrically-deformable material; an actuator mounted to the electrically-deformable material and configured to be fixedly connected to a key or keyboard element on a keyboard; wherein the electrically-deformable material is configured to be disposed in the keyboard operably proximate a switch; and wherein the electrically-deformable material is configured to be driven by one or more drive voltages to effect movement of the key or keyboard element, wherein said movement comprises a multi-vectored movement that is generally orthogonal to a direction effective to cause switch closure, said movement being in at least two directions a first direction of which moves the key or keyboard element a first distance, a second direction of which moves the key or keyboard element a second distance, the second direction being generally opposite of the first direction. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first and second distances are different. 3. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the electrically-deformable material comprises an electro-active polymer. 5. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising a key or keyboard element fixedly connected to the actuator. 6. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a key or keyboard element fixedly connected to the actuator; and a magnet assembly mounted in the key or keyboard element. 7. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a key or keyboard element fixedly connected to the actuator; and a magnet assembly mounted in the key or keyboard element, wherein the magnet assembly comprises a pair of opposed magnets. 8. The assembly of claim 1 further comprising: a key or keyboard element fixedly connected to the actuator; and a detent structure operably associated with the key or keyboard element and configured to impart a snapover effect when the key or keyboard element is depressed. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the electrically-deformable material is translucent. 10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the electrically-deformable material is configured to be driven in a single phase mode. 11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the electrically-deformable material is configured to be driven in a dual phase mode. 12. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an input associated with a switch closure of a switch associated with a key or keyboard element on a keyboard having a plurality of keys or keyboard elements; responsive to receiving said input, causing multi-vectored movement of the key or keyboard element, wherein said movement, being generally orthogonal to a direction effective to cause switch closure, moves the key or keyboard element in a first direction and at least a second different direction, wherein one of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element a distance that is greater than a distance the other of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first distance is greater than the second distance. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said causing is performed, at least in part, using an electrically-deformable material. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein said causing is performed, at least in part, using an electrically-deformable material comprising an electro-active polymer. 16. A system comprising: a keyboard having a plurality of keys or keyboard elements, the keys or keyboard elements being depressible in a direction; and means for causing multi-vectored movement of a key or keyboard element that has been depressed, the multi-vectored movement occurring in a movement direction that is generally orthogonal to the depressible direction, the multi-vectored movement occurring in a first direction and at least a second different direction, wherein one of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element a distance that is greater than a distance the other of the first or second directions moves the key or keyboard element. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the distance associated with the first direction is greater than the distance associated with the second direction. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein said means for causing multi-vector movement comprises an electrically-deformable material. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein said means for causing multi-vector movement comprises an electro-active polymer. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein at least some keys or keyboard elements are grouped into a logical grouping, and wherein said means for causing multi-vectored movement causes multi-vectored movement of the logical grouping of the keys or keyboard elements. 