A device for handling a substantially circular wafer is provided. The device includes an interior accessible through a plurality of entrances, and a plurality of sensors consisting of two sensors for each one of the plurality of entrances, each sensor capable of detecting a presence of the substantially circular wafer, at a predetermined location within the interior, wherein the plurality of sensors are arranged so that at least two of the plurality of sensors detect the wafer for any position of the wafer entirely within the interior, wherein a first one of the two sensors is positioned to detect the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances, and a second one of the two sensors is positioned immediately outside a diameter of the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for handling a substantially circular wafer, the device comprising: an interior accessible through a plurality of entrances; a plurality of sensors, each sensor capable of detecting a presence of the substantially circular wafer, at a predetermined location within the interior, wherein the plurality of sensors are arranged so that no more than two sensors of the plurality of sensors are provided for each entrance and at least two of the plurality of sensors detect the wafer for any position of the wafer entirely within the interior; and at least another sensor is positioned outside a diameter of the wafer to immediately detect rotational movement of the wafer. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of entrances includes four entrances, seven entrances or eight entrances. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors includes optical sensors. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of sensors includes at least one light emitting diode. 5. The device of claim 1, further comprising a robotic arm having a center axis within the interior, the robotic arm including an end effector for handling wafers. 6. A device for handling a substantially circular wafer, the device comprising: an interior accessible through a plurality of entrances; a plurality of sensors, each sensor capable of detecting a presence of the substantially circular wafer, at a predetermined location within the interior, wherein the plurality of sensors are arranged so that no more than two sensors of the plurality of sensors are provided for each entrance and at least two of the plurality of sensors detect the wafer for any position of the wafer entirely within the interior; and at least another sensor is positioned outside a diameter of the wafer to immediately detect rotational movement of the wafer; wherein a first one of the two sensors is positioned to detect the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances, and a second one of the two sensors is positioned immediately outside a diameter of the wafer when the wafer has passed entirely into the interior through one of the plurality of entrances. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the plurality of entrances includes four entrances, seven entrances or eight entrances. 8. The device of claim 6, wherein the plurality of sensors includes optical sensors. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the plurality of sensors includes at least one light emitting diode. 10. The device of claim 6, further comprising a robotic arm having a center axis within the interior, the robotic arm including an end effector for handling wafers. 