The present disclosure relates to systems and methods that are related to projection. For example, in at least some embodiments, methods in accordance with the present disclosure include receiving information associated with one or more projection parameters; processing the information associated with the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more projection associated instructions; transmitting the one or more projection associated instructions; and wherein at least one of the receiving information, the processing the information, or the transmitting is performed at least partially using one or more processing devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: receiving one or more projection parameters, the one or more projection parameters including a request for projection at one or more specified times; with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to identify one or more projection surfaces that are available for projection at the one or more specified times and to generate one or more instructions to project at the one or more specified times from one or more projectors onto the one or more identified projection surfaces; and transmitting the one or more instructions to project at the specified time from the one or more projectors onto the one or more identified projection surfaces. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters and with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters generate one or more instructions to project comprises: receiving one or more priority parameters and a first request for projection from a first user and a second request for projection from a second user, the one or more priority parameters assigning a higher priority to the first user than to the second user; and with one or more processing devices, processing the first request for projection, the second request for projection, and the priority parameters to generate instructions that prioritize projection by the first user over projection by the second user. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving information associated with one or more projection surface parameters. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving information associated with one or more venue parameters. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving a request for projection from one or more projectors that are specifically identified onto one or more projection surfaces, the one or more projectors being specifically identified based on a proximity to one or more locations, the request including a user projection account for payment for the requested projection. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving a request for projection with one or more projectors that are not specifically identified, the request including information about the proximity of one or more users to the one or more projectors that are not specifically identified. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving information associated with projection onto one or more projection surfaces that are specifically identified. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving information associated with projection of specified content onto one or more projection surfaces that are specifically identified at one or more specified times. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving a request for projection onto one or more projection surfaces that are not specifically identified, the request including information about the proximity of one or more users to the one or more projection surfaces that are not specifically identified, the request further including information identifying a projection account for payment for the requested projection. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving information associated with one or more credentials associated with one or more individuals. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving information associated with the presence of one or more individuals in proximity to an identified space. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving one or more signals that include the information associated with one or more projection parameters. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving one or more signals that include the information associated with one or more projection parameters through use of one or more multi-user receivers. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving one or more wireless signals. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving one or more text messages. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving one or more voice commands. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving content for projection. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: receiving information associated with accessing content. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving one or more projection parameters comprises: accessing information included within one or more internet sites. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with the one or more projection parameters with one or more central processing units. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with one or more priority parameters to generate the one or more instructions to project. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with one or more projection surface parameters to generate the one or more instructions to project. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with one or more venue parameters to generate the one or more instructions to project. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with one or more requests for projection from one or more projectors that are specifically identified to generate the one or more instructions to project. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with projection from one or more projectors that are not specifically identified to generate the one or more instructions to project. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with projection onto one or more projection surfaces that are specifically identified to generate the one or more instructions to project. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: with one or more processing devices, processing a request for projection of specified content, at one or more locations, at one or more specified times, onto one or more projection surfaces that are specifically identified to generate the one or more instructions to project the specified content at the one or more locations, at the one or more specified times, from one or more projectors onto the one or more projection surfaces that are specifically identified; and wherein the one or more specifically identified projection surfaces are specifically identified with reference to one or more identifiers. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with projection onto one or more projection surfaces that are not specifically identified to generate the one or more instructions to project. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with one or more credentials associated with one or more individuals to generate the one or more instructions to project. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with the presence of one or more individuals in proximity to an identified space to generate the one or more instructions to project. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with accessing content to generate the one or more instructions to project. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein the with one or more processing devices, processing the one or more projection parameters to generate one or more instructions to project comprises: processing the information associated with accessing one or more internet sites to generate the one or more instructions to project. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project according to priority. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project in response to one or more projection surface parameters that are associated with one or more projection surfaces. 35. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project in response to one or more venue parameters. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project in response to one or more user parameters. 37. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project from two or more projectors that are specifically identified. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project onto one or more projection surfaces that are specifically identified. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project onto one or more projection surfaces that are not specifically identified. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project specified content onto one or more specified projection surfaces at one or more specified times. 41. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project in response to one or more credentials associated with one or more individuals. 42. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project in response to the presence of one or more individuals in proximity to an identified space. 43. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the one or more instructions to project comprises: transmitting the one or more instructions to project in response to accessing one or more internet sites. 44. A method comprising: receiving one or more wireless signals that include information associated with a presence of one or more individuals in proximity to an identified space, the received wireless signals including one or more projection parameters, the one or more projection parameters including a request for projection at one or more specified times; processing the one or more wireless signals to identify one or more projection surfaces that are available for projection at the one or more specified times and that are proximate to the one or more individuals and to generate one or more instructions to project at the one or more specified times from one or more projectors onto the one or more identified projection surfaces; transmitting the one or more instructions; and wherein at least one of the receiving, the processing or the transmitting is performed at least partly using one or more processing devices. 45. A method comprising: receiving one or more projection parameters that include a request for projection at one or more specified times by one or more individuals, the one or more parameters selecting one or more projectors for projection of content that is selected by the one or more individuals; processing the one or more parameters to identify one or more projection surfaces that are available for projection at the one or more specified times and to generate one or more instructions to project the selected content at the one or more specified times from the one or more projectors that are selected by the one or more individuals onto the identified one or more projection surfaces; transmitting the one or more instructions; and wherein at least one of the receiving, the processing or the transmitting is performed at least partly using one or more processing devices. 