An orthodontic bracket having an opening for receiving a wire, but without a base to create a lever arm when the bracket is oriented in free space at a customized angle relative to a tooth surface. The bracket can be embedded into or encapsulated by an adhesive that is bonded to the tooth. A clip is provided for holding the bracket in position and occluding the opening while the adhesive is applied. And indirect methods of attaching the brackets to teeth are provided wherein the brackets can be attached to the lingual side of the teeth in a low-profile arrangement. A first method includes the step of positioning the brackets on a physical model of the teeth by using a positioning machine. A second method includes the step of positioning virtual brackets on a virtual model of the teeth using software, then generating a physical transfer try using rapid prototyping.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of attaching orthodontic brackets to teeth, comprising: providing a plurality of the brackets each having an opening for receiving a wire; positioning the brackets relative to the teeth or a model of the teeth with at least one of the brackets suspended in free space and offset from the teeth or a model of the teeth; fabricating a transfer tray for holding the brackets in the specified positions relative to the teeth or the model of the teeth, the transfer tray having customized voids and attachment elements, the voids for receiving the brackets and the attachment elements for registering the brackets in the specified positions; occluding the bracket openings with occlusion elements; positioning the brackets in the voids of the transfer tray with the attachment elements engaged to register the specified position of the brackets; filling the voids in the transfer tray with adhesive masses so that the brackets are embedded into or encapsulated by the adhesive masses with at least one of the adhesive masses extending into the corresponding void beyond at least a portion of the corresponding bracket opening of the offset bracket but with the corresponding occlusion element preventing the adhesive mass from flowing into the bracket opening; placing the transfer tray on the physical teeth so that the brackets are in the specified positions with a portion of the bracket opening of the offset bracket being closest to, but still offset from, the corresponding tooth, and with the corresponding adhesive mass extending away from the corresponding tooth beyond the corresponding bracket-opening portion that is closest to the corresponding tooth; curing the adhesive masses to bond the brackets to the teeth; removing the transfer tray from the teeth, leaving the brackets attached to the teeth; and unoccluding the bracket openings by removing the occlusion elements. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of positioning the brackets comprises: generating a 3D virtual model of the teeth; and digitally positioning virtual brackets offset from the virtual teeth and suspended in free space, wherein the virtual brackets are replicas of the physical brackets. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of generating the 3D virtual model of the teeth comprises directly scanning the teeth intra-orally. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of generating the 3D virtual model of the teeth comprises the steps of: forming an impression of the teeth; forming a 3D physical model of the teeth using the impression; and digitally scanning the physical model of the teeth. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of generating the 3D virtual model of the teeth comprises the steps of: forming an impression of the teeth; and digitally scanning the impression of the teeth. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of digitally positioning the brackets further comprises manipulating the brackets with six degrees of freedom and with no part of the brackets acting as a lever arm against the teeth or a model of the teeth. 7. The method of claim 2, further comprising: digitally generating and rendering a virtual transfer tray for holding the virtual brackets in the specified positions offset from the virtual teeth, wherein the virtual transfer tray defines virtual voids and attachment elements; wherein the step of fabricating a physical transfer tray comprises fabricating the transfer tray to be a physical replica of the virtual transfer tray. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of fabricating a transfer tray further comprises using a rapid prototyping system to fabricate the physical transfer tray. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of positioning the brackets relative to the teeth or model teeth comprises positioning the brackets using a robotic system. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the occlusion elements are provided by clips with fingers, and the step of occluding the bracket openings comprises inserting the clip fingers into the bracket openings. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of fabricating a transfer tray further comprises fabricating the transfer tray with an outer surface defining customized slots for receiving the clips therethrough so that the clips extend into the voids through the slots and, with the brackets mounted onto the clips with the clips inserted into the bracket openings, the brackets are suspended within the voids. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of positioning the brackets comprises positioning at least one of the brackets at a lingual surface of one of the teeth or model teeth. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the step of positioning the brackets further comprises positioning at least one other of the brackets at a facial surface of another one of the teeth or model teeth. 14. The transfer tray fabricated by and for use in the method of claim 1. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein when the brackets are attached to the teeth and the bracket openings are unoccluded, the bracket openings have open ends and lateral sides so that a wire can be longitudinally threaded through the open ends and held within the bracket openings by the lateral sides, so that the wire cannot be inserted into or removed from the bracket openings at any of the lateral sides and can only be inserted and removed longitudinally through the open ends, without the wire being ligated to any part of the brackets. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of routing the wire longitudinally through the bracket openings to form a completed orthodontic appliance. 17. The orthodontic appliance made according to the method of claim 16, the orthodontic appliances including the brackets, the cured adhesive masses, and the wire. 18. A method of attaching orthodontic brackets to teeth, comprising: providing a plurality of the brackets each having an opening for receiving a wire; providing a plurality of clips with fingers; positioning the brackets suspended in free space and offset from the teeth or a model of the teeth; fabricating a transfer tray for holding the brackets in the specified positions offset from the teeth, the transfer tray having customized voids and attachment elements, the voids for receiving the brackets and the attachment elements for registering the brackets in the specified positions; occluding the bracket openings by inserting the clip fingers into the bracket openings; positioning the brackets in the voids of the transfer tray with the attachment elements engaged to register the specified position of the brackets; filling the voids in the transfer tray with adhesive masses that encapsulate the brackets, except for the occluded bracket openings; placing the transfer tray on the physical teeth; curing the adhesive masses to bond the brackets to the teeth; removing the transfer tray from the teeth, wherein the fingers break off the clips when the transfer tray is removed from the teeth, leaving the brackets attached to the teeth; and unoccluding the bracket openings by removing the broken-off clip fingers from the bracket openings. 19. A method of attaching orthodontic brackets to teeth, comprising: providing a plurality of the brackets each having an opening for receiving a wire; providing a plurality of clips with fingers and with attachment elements; positioning the brackets suspended in free space and offset from the teeth or a model of the teeth; fabricating a transfer tray for holding the brackets in the specified positions offset from the teeth, the transfer tray having customized voids and attachment elements, the voids for receiving the brackets and the attachment elements for registering the brackets in the specified positions, including customizing the transfer tray attachment elements for mating with the clip attachment elements to register the specified positions of the brackets and clips; occluding the bracket openings by inserting the clip fingers into the bracket openings; positioning the brackets in the voids of the transfer tray with the attachment elements engaged to register the specified position of the brackets; filling the voids in the transfer tray with adhesive masses that encapsulate the brackets, with the adhesive masses not flowing into the occluded bracket openings; placing the transfer tray on the physical teeth; curing the adhesive masses to bond the brackets to the teeth; removing the transfer tray from the teeth, leaving the brackets attached to the teeth; and unoccluding the bracket openings. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of positioning the brackets further comprises positioning the facial surface bracket and the lingual surface bracket in an overlapping arrangement. 21. A method of attaching orthodontic brackets to teeth, comprising: digitally generating and rendering a 3D virtual model of the teeth; digitally positioning virtual brackets relative to the virtual teeth with at least one of the brackets suspended in free space and offset from the virtual teeth; digitally generating and rendering a virtual model of a transfer tray for holding the virtual brackets in the specified positions relative to the virtual teeth; fabricating a physical transfer tray that is a replica of the virtual transfer tray; occluding the bracket openings with occlusion elements; attaching the physical brackets to the physical transfer tray in the specified positions relative to the physical transfer tray, wherein the physical brackets are replicas of the virtual brackets and each have an opening for receiving a wire; filling the physical transfer tray with adhesive masses so that the physical brackets are embedded into or encapsulated by the adhesive masses with at least one of the adhesive masses extending into the corresponding void beyond at least a portion of the bracket opening of the offset bracket but with the corresponding occlusion element preventing the adhesive mass from flowing into the bracket opening placing the physical transfer tray on the physical teeth so that the physical brackets are in the specified positions with a portion of the bracket opening of the offset physical bracket being closest to, but still offset from, the corresponding tooth, and with the corresponding adhesive mass extending away from the corresponding tooth beyond the corresponding bracket-opening portion that is closest to the corresponding tooth; bonding the physical brackets to the physical teeth; removing the physical transfer tray from the physical teeth, leaving the physical brackets attached to the physical teeth; and unoccluding the bracket openings by removing the occlusion elements. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of fabricating a physical transfer tray comprises using a rapid prototyping system to fabricate the physical transfer tray. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of digitally positioning virtual brackets comprises digitally manipulating the virtual brackets with six degrees of freedom and with no part of the virtual brackets acting as a lever arm against the virtual teeth. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of digitally generating and rendering a virtual model of a transfer tray comprises digitally generating the virtual transfer tray with customized virtual voids and attachment elements, the voids for receiving the virtual brackets in the specified positions offset from the virtual teeth and the attachment elements for registering the virtual brackets in the specified positions; and wherein the step of fabricating a physical transfer tray comprises fabricating the physical transfer tray with customized physical voids and attachment elements the voids for receiving the physical brackets in the specified positions offset from the physical teeth and the attachment elements for registering the physical brackets in the specified positions. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the step of attaching the physical brackets to the physical transfer tray comprises inserting the physical brackets into the voids of the physical transfer tray with the attachment elements engaged to register the specified position of the physical brackets. 26. A method of attaching orthodontic brackets to teeth, comprising: digitally generating and rendering a 3D virtual model of the teeth; digitally manipulating virtual brackets with six degrees of freedom and with no part of the virtual brackets acting as a lever arm against the virtual teeth; digitally positioning the virtual brackets offset from the virtual teeth, suspended in free space; digitally generating and rendering a virtual model of a transfer tray for holding the virtual brackets in the specified positions offset from the virtual teeth, wherein the virtual transfer tray defines virtual voids, slots, and attachment elements, the voids for receiving the virtual brackets, the slots for receiving virtual clips onto which the virtual brackets are mounted, the slots extending from the voids through an outer surface of the virtual transfer tray, and the attachment elements for mating with cooperating attachment elements of the virtual clips to register the virtual clips and the virtual brackets in the specified positions offset from the virtual teeth; using a rapid prototyping system to fabricate a physical transfer tray that is a replica of the virtual transfer tray, wherein the physical transfer tray is fabricated with physical voids, slots, and attachment elements; providing each of the physical brackets with an opening for receiving a wire; wherein the physical brackets are replicas of the virtual brackets; inserting fingers of physical clips into the openings of the physical brackets; positioning the physical clips and brackets in the slots and voids of the physical transfer tray with the attachment elements engaged to register the specified position of the physical brackets; filling the voids in the physical transfer tray with adhesive masses that encapsulate the physical brackets, except for the physical bracket openings, which are occluded by the physical clip fingers; placing the physical transfer tray on the physical teeth; curing the adhesive masses to bond the physical encapsulated brackets in position offset from the physical teeth; removing the physical transfer tray from the physical teeth, leaving the adhesive masses attached to the physical teeth, the physical brackets encapsulated within the adhesive masses, and the physical clip fingers in the bracket openings, as the fingers break off of the clip when the transfer tray is removed; and removing the physical clip fingers from the bracket openings. 