A patient support apparatus has a first frame and a second frame supported above the first frame and movable relative to the first frame. A plurality of casters are coupled to the first frame. A wheel is movable relative to the first frame between a lowered position engaging the floor and a raised position spaced from the floor. A drive assembly is coupled to the wheel and is operable to drive the wheel to propel the patient support apparatus along the floor. A foot pedal is coupled to the first frame and is movable to raise and lower the wheel relative to the floor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A patient support apparatus for transporting a patient along a floor, the patient support apparatus comprising a first frame, a second frame supported above the first frame and movable relative to the first frame, a push handle coupled to the second frame and movable between a push position and a storage position, a plurality of casters coupled to the first frame, a wheel supported with respect to the first frame and movable between a lowered position engaging the floor and a raised position spaced from the floor, a drive assembly coupled to the wheel and operable to drive the wheel to propel the patient support apparatus along the floor, a foot pedal coupled to the first frame and movable to raise and lower the wheel relative to the floor, elevation adjust pedals coupled to the first frame and movable to change an elevation of the second frame relative to the first frame, a controller operable to signal the drive assembly to drive the wheel, and a control coupled to the push handle and movable to provide a signal to the controller. 2. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, further comprising drive means for movably supporting the first frame relative to the second frame and the elevation adjustment pedals actuate the drive means. 3. The patient support apparatus of claim 2, wherein the drive means comprises at least one hydraulic cylinder. 4. The patient support apparatus of claim 3, wherein the at least one hydraulic cylinder comprises a first hydraulic cylinder adjacent a first end of the first frame and a second hydraulic cylinder adjacent a second end of the first frame. 5. The patient support apparatus of claim 2, wherein the drive means comprises at least one electromechanical actuator. 6. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a shroud that covers the first frame and the shroud being configured to cover the wheel. 7. The patient support apparatus of claim 6, wherein the shroud is configured with a storage pan that is situated between a first side and a second side of the shroud. 8. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an elongated shaft coupled to the foot pedal, rotation of the shaft by the foot pedal in a first direction results in lowering of the wheel, and rotation of the shaft by the foot pedal in a second direction results in raising of the wheel. 9. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, wherein movement of the foot pedal also brakes and unbrakes the plurality of casters. 10. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, wherein the push handle is movable relative to the second frame about a pivot axis. 11. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, wherein the drive assembly comprises a motor having an output shaft and the wheel is mounted on the output shaft. 12. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a battery that is carried by the first frame and that provides power to the drive assembly. 13. The patient support apparatus of claim 1, wherein the drive assembly comprises a motor having a stator and a rotor and wherein the wheel is mounted on the rotor. 14. The patient support apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a wheel support that is movable relative to the first frame to raise and lower the wheel, the stator being coupled to the wheel support. 15. A patient support apparatus for transporting a patient along a floor, the patient support apparatus comprising a first frame, a second frame supported above the first frame and movable relative to the first frame, a plurality of casters coupled to the first frame, a wheel supported with respect to the first frame and movable between a lowered position engaging the floor and a raised position spaced from the floor, a drive assembly coupled to the wheel and operable to drive the wheel to propel the patient support apparatus along the floor, a foot pedal coupled to the first frame and movable to raise and lower the wheel relative to the floor, elevation adjust pedals coupled to the first frame and movable to change an elevation of the second frame relative to the first frame, and a rotary switch having a rotatable member that is rotatable from a neutral position in a first direction to provide a first signal associated with propelling the patient support apparatus forwardly and that is rotatable from the neutral position in a second direction to provide a second signal associated with propelling the patient support apparatus rearwardly. 16. The patient support apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a spring to bias the rotatable member toward the neutral position. 17. The patient support apparatus of claim 15, wherein a speed at which the patient support apparatus is propelled depends upon an amount that the rotatable member is rotated away from the neutral position. 18. A patient support apparatus for transporting a patient along a floor, the patient support apparatus comprising a first frame, a second frame supported above the first frame and movable relative to the first frame, a push handle coupled to the second frame and movable between a push position and a storage position, a plurality of casters coupled to the first frame, a wheel supported with respect to the first frame and movable between a lowered position engaging the floor and a raised position spaced from the floor, a drive assembly coupled to the wheel and operable to drive the wheel to propel the patient support apparatus along the floor, a foot pedal coupled to the first frame and movable to raise and lower the wheel relative to the floor, elevation adjust pedals coupled to the first frame and movable to change an elevation of the second frame relative to the first frame, and a control coupled to the push handle and coupled to a controller associated with the drive assembly. 