A system, a firing apparatus and method for disrupting at least one electrical component of an explosive device are provided. The system has an electrical cartridge, the firing apparatus and an initiator. The electrical cartridge has a projectile at an end thereof deployable into the electrical component(s). The firing apparatus has a barrel, a breech and an electrical contact. The barrel has a firing end aimable toward the electrical component, and a passage therein for receiving the electrical cartridge. The breech is operatively connectable to the barrel. The electrical contact is positionable in the breech in operative contact with the electrical cartridge. The electrical contact is operatively connectable to the initiator. The initiator selectively provides an electrical signal to the electrical cartridge via the electrical contact whereby the electrical cartridge may be activated to deploy the projectile from the firing end of the barrel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A firing apparatus for disrupting at least one electrical component of an explosive device, the apparatus comprising: a barrel having a firing end aimable toward the at least one electrical component, the barrel having a passage therein for receiving an electrical cartridge, the electrical cartridge having a projectile at an end thereof deployable from the barrel and into the at least one electrical component; a breech threadedly connectable to the barrel, wherein the breech comprises a breech passage therethrough; an electrical contact positionable in the breech passage in operative contact with the electrical cartridge, the electrical contact threadedly connectable to the breech and operatively connectable to an initiator, wherein the initiator selectively provides an electrical signal to the electrical cartridge whereby the electrical cartridge is activated to deploy the projectile from the firing end of the barrel; and a scope positionable about the explosive device for inspection thereof. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the firing apparatus is sized for handheld operation. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the firing apparatus has a length of less than about 12 inches (30.48 cm). 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one tube operatively connectable to the breech, the at least one tube extending a length of the firing apparatus. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a rod operatively connectable to the breech via the at least one tube, the rod extending a length of the firing apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a link for electrically connecting the initiator to the electrical contact. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the initiator is located a distance from the firing apparatus for providing remote activation thereof. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the scope is operatively connectable to the breech. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the scope comprises: a flexible body that comprises a lens and a camera that are operatively linked, wherein the camera captures images from the lens; and a screen that displays the images. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the screen is comprised in glasses. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electrical contact has an outer casing and a pin, the outer casing providing an electrical ground, the pin positionable in contact with the electrical cartridge for providing the electrical signal thereto. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the projectile is firm. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the projectile is frangible. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the electrical signal comprises about 300 Volts. 15. A firing apparatus for disrupting at least one electrical component of an explosive device, the apparatus comprising: a barrel having a firing end aimable toward the at least one electrical component, the barrel having a passage therein for receiving an electrical cartridge, the electrical cartridge having a projectile at an end thereof deployable from the barrel and into the at least one electrical component, wherein the electrical cartridge comprises: a housing having a first portion and a second portion with a flash tube therebetween, the housing having a passage therethrough, the projectile positionable in the first portion of the housing; a primer positionable in the second portion of the housing, the primer electrically ignitable upon receipt of an electrical signal; and a propellant positionable between the projectile and the primer, the propellant combustible upon ignition by the primer whereby the projectile is deployable from the housing; a breech threadedly connectable to the barrel, wherein the breech comprises a breech passage therethrough; and an electrical contact positionable in the breech passage in operative contact with the electrical cartridge, the electrical contact threadedly connectable to the breech and operatively connectable to an initiator, wherein the initiator selectively provides the electrical signal to the electrical cartridge whereby the electrical cartridge is activated to deploy the projectile from the firing end of the barrel. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the firing apparatus is sized for handheld operation. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising at least one tube operatively connectable to the breech, the at least one tube extending a length of the firing apparatus. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a rod operatively connectable to the breech via the at least one tube, the rod extending a length of the firing apparatus. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a link for electrically connecting the initiator to the electrical contact. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the initiator is located a distance from the firing apparatus for providing remote activation thereof. 21. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a scope positionable about the explosive device for inspection thereof. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the scope is operatively connectable to the breech. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the scope comprises: a flexible body that comprises a lens and a camera that are operatively linked, wherein the camera captures images from the lens; and a screen that displays the images. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the screen is comprised in glasses. 25. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the electrical contact has an outer casing and a pin, the outer casing providing an electrical ground, the pin positionable in contact with the electrical cartridge for providing the electrical signal thereto. 26. A system for disrupting at least one electrical component of an explosive device, comprising: an electrical cartridge having a projectile at an end thereof, the projectile deployable into the at least one electrical component; a firing apparatus, comprising: a barrel having a firing end aimable toward the at least one electrical component, the barrel having a passage therein for receiving the electrical cartridge; a breech threadedly connectable to the barrel, wherein the breech comprises a breech passage therethrough; and an electrical contact positionable in the breech passage in operative contact with the electrical cartridge, the electrical contact threadedly connectable to the breech; an initiator operatively connectable to the electrical contact, wherein the initiator selectively provides an electrical signal to the electrical cartridge whereby the electrical cartridge is activated to deploy the projectile from the firing end of the barrel; and a scope positionable about the explosive device for inspection thereof. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the firing apparatus is sized for handheld operation. 28. The system of claim 26, further comprising at least one tube operatively connectable to the breech, the at least one tube extending a length of the firing apparatus. 29. The system of claim 28, further comprising a rod operatively connectable to the breech via the at least one tube, the rod extending a length of the firing apparatus. 30. The system of claim 26, further comprising a link for electrically connecting the initiator to the electrical contact. 31. The system of claim 26, wherein the electrical contact has an outer casing and a pin, the outer casing providing an electrical ground, the pin positionable in contact with the electrical cartridge for providing the electrical signal thereto. 32. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the scope comprises: a flexible body that comprises a lens and a camera that are operatively linked, wherein the camera captures images from the lens; and a screen that displays the images. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the screen is comprised in glasses. 34. A system for disrupting at least one electrical component of an explosive device, comprising: an electrical cartridge having a projectile at an end thereof, the projectile deployable into the at least one electrical component, wherein the electrical cartridge comprises: a housing having a first portion and a second portion with a flash tube therebetween, the housing having a passage therethrough, the projectile positionable in the first portion of the housing; a primer positionable in the second portion of the housing, the primer electrically ignitable upon receipt of an electrical signal; and a propellant positionable between the projectile and the primer, the propellant combustible upon ignition by the primer whereby the projectile is deployable from the housing; a firing apparatus, comprising: a barrel having a firing end aimable toward the at least one electrical component, the barrel having a passage therein for receiving the electrical cartridge; a breech threadedly connectable to the barrel, wherein the breech comprises a breech passage therethrough; and an electrical contact positionable in the breech passage in operative contact with the electrical cartridge, the electrical contact threadedly connectable to the breech; and an initiator operatively connectable to the electrical contact, wherein the initiator selectively provides the electrical signal to the electrical cartridge whereby the electrical cartridge is activated to deploy the projectile from the firing end of the barrel. 