A robotic arm arrangement including an arm having control cables extending from the base of the arm, and coupling members for coupling the cables to actuators for linear actuation of the cables. The coupling members extend radially outwardly around the arm to enable quick release and replacement of the arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm arrangement comprises an elongate robotic arm having a plurality of control cables extending along the arm for controlling the position of the arm, a corresponding plurality of actuators for actuating the control cables, and a releasable coupling arrangement between each cable and the associated actuator, the releasable coupling arrangement comprising a coupling member, in which the coupling member extends radially outwardly with respect to the arm, and is arranged such that the actuators produce axial movement of the cables, and wherein the cables extend axially out of an end of arm plate provided at a proximal end of the arm, and terminate at an arm base plate, with ferrules being provided between the end of arm plate and the arm base plate. 2. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which the actuators are positioned radially around the arm. 3. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which each control cable comprises an engagement member for engagement with a cooperating part associated within one end of the coupling members. 4. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 3 in which the engagement member is one of the ferrules, and the cooperating part is a cup. 5. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1 arranged such that linear actuation of the control cable is achieved by axial motion of one end of the coupling members, and disengagement or reengagement is achieved by radial motion of the one end of the coupling members. 6. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which the actuators are provided in a housing and are arranged around an aperture in the housing for receiving the proximal end of the arm. 7. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1 in which the cables are held in co-linear position by a spring or elastic element. 8. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1 in which the elastic element is a cord which passes over a pulley in the arm base plate and returns to the end of arm plate internally of the cable. 9. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which the end of arm plate and the arm base plate are provided with locking members to engage with an actuator housing. 10. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which the arm base plate is provided with electrical contacts for electrical connection between the arm and the actuators for communication data. 11. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which the control cables are secured to the end of arm plate by means of a biasing member for holding each control cable under tension when disconnected. 12. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which the arm comprises a plurality of hollow bores for receiving tools or services, the hollow bores extending from the end of arm plate to the arm base plate and being accessible at a base of the arrangement. 13. A robotic arm arrangement comprises an elongate robotic arm having a plurality of control cables extending along the arm for controlling the position of the arm, a corresponding plurality of actuators for actuating the control cables, and a releasable coupling arrangement between each cable and the associated actuator, the releasable coupling arrangement comprising a coupling member, in which the coupling member extends radially outwardly with respect to the arm, and is arranged such that the actuators produce axial movement of the cables, and wherein the robotic arm arrangement comprises a locking mechanism arranged to hold the control cables in tension after disengagement from the actuators, the locking mechanism being operable to secure all cables. 14. A robotic arm arrangement according to claim 1, in which the coupling members comprise a plurality of pantographs, or a passive spring load coupling. 