The end-effector (150) includes a sheath (152) and a medical device or needle carrier (154) that is disposed within the interior compartment (160) of the sheath. Aperture (162) is located in a portion of the sheath proximal a distal end of the sheath that is inserted into a natural or artificial cavity. This device is guided by a real-time imager.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interventional device for use while a subject including a mammalian body is within an imaging field of a medical imaging apparatus, said interventional device comprising: an end member, a portion of which is inserted into one of a natural cavity or an artificially formed cavity of the subject while the subject is within the imaging field of the medical imaging apparatus; and wherein said end member includes: a sheath member being configured and arranged to be received with said one of natural or artificial body cavity, a carrier member being one of translatably or rotatably disposed inside the sheath member, wherein the sheath member and the carrier member are configured and arranged so at least translation of the carrier member is not imparted to the sheath member, and wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged to selectively deploy a medical device therefrom between a stored position and a deployed position, where in the deployed position a portion of the medical device is disposed in target tissues about said one of the natural or artificial body cavity. 2. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein the sheath member is configured so as to include a through aperture that communicates with the sheath member interior compartment and which extends partially circumferentially and partially longitudinally so as to form a window in an exterior surface of the sheath member, where the medical device passes through the window when being deployed. 3. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein said end member further includes an imaging device that is configured and arranged so as to allow a volume of tissues including the target tissues to be imaged. 4. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein said end member further includes an MRI receiver antenna, the MRI receiver antenna being configured and arranged so as to MR/NMR image a volume of tissues including the target tissues. 5. The interventional device of claim 4, wherein the sheath member is configured so as to include a through aperture that communicates with a sheath member interior compartment and which extends partially circumferentially and partially longitudinally so as to form a window in an exterior surface of the sheath member, wherein the MRI receiver antenna is arranged so as to image tissues opposite the sheath member through aperture, and wherein the medical device passes through the window when being deployed. 6. The interventional device of claim 5, wherein the MRI receiver antenna comprises an MRI coil antenna and wherein said sheath member is configured and arranged so that the MRI coil antenna is disposed about at least a portion of a perimeter of the sheath member through aperture. 7. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein said end member further includes an ultrasonic imaging device that is configured and arranged so as to image a volume of tissues including the target tissues. 8. The interventional device of claim 7, wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged so that the ultrasonic imaging device is disposed therein proximal a location from which the medical device is deployed therefrom. 9. The interventional device of claim 1, further comprising: a positioning mechanism operably coupled to the carrier member; and wherein said positioning mechanism is configured and arranged so as to cause the carrier member to one of translate or rotate within a sheath member interior compartment. 10. The interventional device of claim 9, wherein said positioning mechanism is configured and arranged so as to selectively rotate or translate the carrier member. 11. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein said end member further includes one or more tracking devices, each of said one or more tracking devices being configured and arranged so a position of each tracking device can be determined using an imaging system external to the interventional device. 12. The interventional device of claim 11, wherein the one or more tracking devices are passive fiducials appropriate for the particular imaging technique embodied in the external imaging system. 13. The interventional device of claim 11, wherein the one or more tracking devices are arranged so as to allow a determination to be made of an amount the carrier member is being translated or rotated inside the sheath member. 14. The interventional device of claim 11, wherein said end member further includes a plurality or more tracking devices. 15. The interventional device of claim 14, wherein the plurality or more of tracking devices are arranged so as to allow a determination to be made of an amount the carrier member is being translated or rotated inside the sheath member. 16. The interventional device of claim 11, wherein the external imaging system is an MRI imaging system and wherein the one or more tracking devices comprise one of a passive fiducial or a tracking coil. 17. The interventional device of claim 16, wherein one of the passive fiducials or the tracking coils are arranged so as to allow a determination to be made of an amount the carrier member is being translated or rotated inside the sheath member. 18. The interventional device of claim 16, wherein said end member comprises three tracking coils being arranged so as to allow a determination to be made of an amount the carrier member is being translated or rotated inside the sheath member. 19. The interventional device of claim 18, wherein said end member includes passive fiducials. 20. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein said carrier member is configured and arranged so as to include a passage and where the medical device is movably received therein. 21. The interventional device of claim 20, wherein the passage is configured and arranged so an exit thereof is from a surface of the carrier member. 22. The interventional device of claim 21, wherein a portion of the passage proximal the exit is arcuate. 23. The interventional device of claim 22, further comprising a mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said mechanism being configured so as to rotate the medical device as the medical device traverses at least a portion of the passage. 24. The interventional device of claim 22, wherein the passage includes a flexible portion proximal the exit and wherein said carrier member further includes a mechanism operably coupled to the passage flexible portion, the mechanism being configured and arranged so as to selectively control one of a position of the exit with respect an exterior surface of the carrier member or an exit angle of the medical device with respect to the exterior surface of an axis of the carrier member. 25. The interventional device of claim 1, further comprising a mechanism for selectively controlling deployment of the medical device from the carrier member into the tissues. 26. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein the medical device is one of a needle or a flexible needle that is configured to penetrate tissues about the one of natural or artificial body cavity. 27. An interventional device for use while a subject including a mammalian body is within an imaging field of a medical imaging apparatus, said interventional device comprising: an end member a portion of which is inserted into one of a natural cavity or an artificially formed cavity of the subject while the subject is within the imaging field of the medical imaging apparatus, wherein said end member includes: a sheath member having a longitudinally extending interior compartment and being configured and arranged to be received with said one of natural or artificial body cavity, a carrier member being one of translatable or rotably disposed within the sheath member interior compartment, where the sheath member and the carrier member are configured and arranged so such rotation or translation of the carrier member is not imparted to the sheath member; wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged to selectively deploy a medical device therefrom between a stored position and a deployed position, where in the deployed position a portion of the medical device is disposed in target tissues about said one of the natural or artificial body cavity, and a positioning mechanism operably coupled to the carrier member, wherein said positioning mechanism is configured and arranged so as to cause the carrier member to one of translate or rotate within the sheath member interior compartment; an insertion mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said insertion mechanism being configured and arranged to selectively controlling deployment of the medical device from the carrier member into the target tissues; and an imaging device that is configured and arranged so as to allow a volume of tissues including the target tissues to be imaged. 28. The interventional device of claim 27, wherein the medical device is one of a needle or a flexible needle that is configured to penetrate tissues about the one of natural or artificial body cavity. 29. The interventional device of claim 27, wherein the sheath member is configured so as to include a through aperture that communicates with the sheath member interior compartment so as to form a window in an exterior surface of the sheath member, where the medical device passes through the window when being deployed. 30. The interventional device of claim 29, wherein the imaging device comprises an MRI coil antenna and wherein said sheath member is configured and arranged so that the MRI coil antenna is disposed about at least a portion of a perimeter of the sheath member through aperture. 31. The interventional device of claim 29, wherein the imaging device comprises an ultrasound imaging device and wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged so that the ultrasonic imaging device is disposed therein proximal a location from which the medical device is deployed therefrom. 32. The interventional device of claim 27, wherein the carrier member includes a plurality of tracking devices, each tracking device being configured and arranged so a position of each tracking device can be determined using an imaging system external to the interventional device and wherein each of the plurality of tracking devices are arranged so as to allow a determination to be made of an amount the carrier member is being one of translated or rotated. 33. The interventional device of claim 32, wherein the plurality of tracking devices are one of active or passive fiducials appropriate for the particular imaging technique embodied in the external imaging system. 34. The interventional device of claim 33, wherein the external imaging system is an MRI imaging system and wherein the active fiducial comprises a tracking coil. 35. The interventional device of claim 32, wherein the carrier member further includes three tracking coils being arranged so as to allow a determination to be made of an amount the carrier member is being translated or rotated within the sheath member. 36. The interventional device of claim 27, wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged to include a passage in which the medical device is movably received and wherein the passage is configured and arranged within the carrier member so an exit of the passage is from a surface of the carrier member. 37. The interventional device of claim 27, wherein said insertion mechanism further comprises a rotating mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said rotating mechanism being configured so as to rotate the medical device as the medical device is being deployed. 38. A system for diagnosis or treatment of a subject including a mammalian body, said system comprising: a MR/NMR imaging apparatus being operably coupled to an MRI antenna external to the subject, the MR/NMR imaging apparatus for processing MR/NMR signals detected by the MRI antenna and for outputting digital images therefrom; an interventional device including an end member a portion of which is inserted into one of a natural cavity or an artificially formed cavity of the subject which cavity is within the imaging field of the MR/NMR imaging apparatus; a microprocessor being configured and arranged so as to provide outputs useable to control operation of the interventional device; and wherein said interventional device end member includes: a sheath member being configured and arranged to be received with said one of natural or artificial body cavity, a carrier member being one of translatably or rotatably disposed inside the sheath member, wherein the sheath member and the carrier member are configured and arranged so at least translation of the carrier member is not imparted to the sheath member, and wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged to selectively deploy a medical device therefrom between a stored position and a deployed position, where in the deployed position a portion of the medical device is disposed in target tissues about said one of the natural or artificial body cavity. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the interventional device end member further includes an MRI receive antenna, the MRI receive antenna being configured and arranged so as to MR/NMR image a volume of tissues including the target tissues and wherein said MRI receive antenna is operably coupled to the MR/NMR imaging apparatus, whereby the MR/NMR imaging apparatus processes MR/NMR signals detected by the MRI receive antenna and outputs digital images therefrom representative of these received signals. 40. The system of claim 38, wherein the interventional device further includes: a positioning mechanism operably coupled to the carrier member; and wherein said positioning mechanism is configured and arranged so as to cause the carrier member to one of translate or rotate inside the sheath member. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein said microprocessor is configured and arranged so as to: determine location coordinates for a target locus within the tissues of the subject being imaged; determine an amount of one of translation or rotation of the carrier member from a present position to another position whereat when the medical device is deployed from the carrier member, the medical device will be located at the target locus; and output the determined amount of one of translation or rotation. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein the carrier member includes a plurality of tracking devices, each tracking device being configured and arranged so as to be detectable by the MRI antenna external to the subject; wherein the microprocessor is configured and arranged so as to determine coordinates of a position of each tracking device responsive to the acquired MRI image data from the MR/NMR imaging apparatus and wherein the amount of one of translation or rotation is determined responsive to the determined coordinates for the plurality of tracking devices. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein the one or more tracking devices are one of active or passive fiducials. 44. The system of claim 38, wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged so that the medical device exits from a surface of the carrier member. 45. The system of claim 38, wherein the medical device being deployed is one a needle or a flexible needle that is configured and arrange to penetrate tissues about one of the natural or artificial cavity. 46. The system of claim 38, wherein the interventional device further includes an insertion mechanism that is operably coupled to the medical device, said insertion mechanism being configured and arranged so as to control deployment of the medical device from the carrier member. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein said microprocessor is configured and arranged so as to: determine location coordinates for a target locus within the tissues of the subject being imaged; determine an amount of insertion of the medical device from the stored to the deployed position; and outputting the determined insertion amount. 48. The system of claim 38, wherein the interventional device further includes a mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said mechanism being configured and arranged so as to rotate the medical device as it is being deployed from the carrier member into the tissues. 49. The interventional device of claim 21 or 36, wherein the passage is configured and arranged so the passage exit is in one of a side or an end surface of the carrier member. 50. The interventional device of claim 23 or 37, wherein a radius of curvature of the arcuate portion is such that the medical device would inelastically deform if the medical device was advanced with pure translation through the arcuate portion. 51. The interventional device of claim 1 or 27, wherein the end member is configured and arranged so the medical device penetrates a wall of the sheath member when the medical device is moved from the stored position to the deployed position. 52. The interventional device of claim 1 or 27, wherein said end member further includes one or more internal sensors being configured and arranged so as to determine and encode one of rotation or translation of the carrier member without an external imaging system. 53. The interventional device of claim 1 or 27, wherein the medical imaging apparatus embodies one of conventional x-ray, fluoroscopy, bi-planar fluoroscopy, CT X-ray, MR/NMR and ultrasound imaging techniques. 54. The system of claim 44, wherein the end member is configured and arranged so the medical device penetrates a wall of the sheath member when the medical device is moved from the stored position to the deployed position. 55. The system of claim 38, wherein an end member further includes one or more internal sensors being configured and arranged so as to determine and encode one of rotation or translation of the carrier member without an external imaging system. 56. The system of claim 38, wherein the medical imaging apparatus embodies one of conventional X-ray, fluoroscopy, bi-planar fluoroscopy, CT X-ray, MR/NMR and ultrasound imaging techniques. 57. The interventional device of claim 27, wherein the sheath member and the carrier member are configured and arranged so rotation or translation of the carrier member is not imparted to the sheath member. 58. The system of claim 40, wherein the sheath member and the carrier member are configured and arranged so rotation or translation of the carrier member is not imparted to the sheath member. 59. An interventional device for use while a subject including a mammalian body is within an imaging field of a medical imaging apparatus, said interventional device comprising: an end member, a portion of which is inserted into one of a natural cavity or an artificially formed cavity of the subject while the subject is within the imaging field of the medical imaging apparatus; and wherein said end member includes: a sheath member being configured and arranged to be received with said one of natural or artificial body cavity, a carrier member being one of translatably or rotatably disposed within the sheath member, wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged to selectively deploy a medical device therefrom between a stored position and a deployed position, where in the deployed position a portion of the medical device is disposed in target tissues about said one of the natural or artificial body cavity. wherein said carrier member is configured and arranged so as to include a passage and where the medical device is movably received therein, and a mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said mechanism being configured so as to rotate the medical device as the medical device traverses at least a portion of the passage. 60. An interventional device for use while a subject including a mammalian body is within an imaging field of a medical imaging apparatus, said interventional device comprising: an end member a portion of which is inserted into one of a natural cavity or an artificially formed cavity of the subject while the subject is within the imaging field of the medical imaging apparatus, wherein said end member includes: a sheath member having a longitudinally extending interior compartment and being configured and arranged to be received with said one of natural or artificial body cavity, a carrier member being one of translatable or rotably disposed within the sheath member interior compartment, where the sheath member and the carrier member are configured and arranged so such rotation or translation of the carrier member is not imparted to the sheath member wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged to selectively deploy a medical device therefrom between a stored position and a deployed position, where in the deployed position a portion of the medical device is disposed in target tissues about said one of the natural or artificial body cavity, and a positioning mechanism operably coupled to the carrier member, wherein said positioning mechanism is configured and arranged so as to cause the carrier member to one of translate or rotate within the sheath member interior compartment; an insertion mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said insertion mechanism being configured and arranged to selectively controlling deployment of the medical device from the carrier member into the target tissues; wherein said insertion mechanism further comprises a rotating mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said rotating mechanism being configured so as to rotate the medical device as the medical device is being deployed; and an imaging device that is configured and arranged so as to allow a volume of tissues including the target tissues to be imaged. 61. A system for diagnosis or treatment of a subject including a mammalian body, said system comprising: a MR/NMR imaging apparatus being operably coupled to an MRI antenna external to the subject, the MR/NMR imaging apparatus for processing MR/NMR signals detected by the MRI antenna and for outputting digital images therefrom; an interventional device including an end member a portion of which is inserted into one of a natural cavity or an artificially formed cavity of the subject which cavity is within the imaging field of the MR/NMR imaging apparatus; a microprocessor being configured and arranged so as to provide outputs useable to control operation of the interventional device; and wherein said interventional device end member includes: a sheath member being configured and arranged to be received with said one of natural or artificial body cavity, a carrier member being one of translatably or rotatably disposed within the sheath member, wherein the carrier member is configured and arranged to selectively deploy a medical device therefrom between a stored position and a deployed position, where in the deployed position a portion of the medical device is disposed in target tissues about said one of the natural or artificial body cavity, and a mechanism operably coupled to the medical device, said mechanism being configured and arranged so as to rotate the medical device as it is being deployed from the carrier member into the tissues. 62. The interventional device of claim 1, wherein the carrier member is translatably and rotatably disposed inside the sheath member. 63. The system of claim 28, wherein the carrier member is translatably and rotatably disposed inside the sheath member. 