A method and apparatus for forming solar cells is provided. In one embodiment, a photovoltaic device includes a antireflection coating layer disposed on a first surface of a substrate, a barrier layer disposed on a second surface of the substrate, a first transparent conductive oxide layer disposed on the barrier layer, a conductive contact layer disposed on the first transparent conductive oxide layer, a first p-i-n junction formed on the conductive contact layer, and a second transparent conductive oxide layer formed on the first p-i-n junction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: forming a first transparent conductive oxide layer over a first surface of a substrate, wherein the first transparent conductive oxide layer comprises tin and oxygen, and the substrate comprises a glass material having an iron concentration less than about 0.03% by weight; forming a conductive contact layer disposed on the first transparent conductive oxide layer, wherein the resistivity of a combination of the first transparent conductive oxide layer and the conductive contact layer is less than about 10 Ohms per square; and forming a first p-i-n junction on the conductive contact layer, wherein forming the first p-i-n junction comprises: forming a p-doped amorphous silicon layer on the conductive contact layer; forming an interface barrier layer over the p-type amorphous silicon layer, wherein the interface barrier layer comprises silicon carbide; forming an intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer over the interface barrier layer; and forming an n-type microcrystalline silicon layer on the conductive contact layer. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a conductive index matching layer over the first p-i-n junction; and forming a second transparent conductive oxide layer on the conductive index matching layer. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising forming a second p-i-n junction between the first p-i-n junction and the conductive index matching layer, wherein forming the second p-i-n junction comprises: forming a p-doped microcrystalline silicon layer over the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer; forming an intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer over the p-type microcrystalline silicon layer; and forming an n-type amorphous silicon layer on the intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer comprises silicon and carbon. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the conductive contact layer comprises a niobium doped titanium oxide layer formed in a physical vapor deposition chamber. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: forming a barrier layer between the first surface of the substrate and the first transparent conductive oxide layer; forming a conductive index matching layer over the first p-i-n junction; and forming a second p-i-n junction between the first p-i-n junction and the conductive index matching layer, wherein forming the second p-i-n junction comprises: forming a p-type microcrystalline silicon layer over the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer; forming an intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer over the p-type microcrystalline silicon layer; and forming an n-type amorphous silicon layer on the intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a second transparent conductive oxide layer; and forming a conductive index matching layer, wherein the conductive index matching layer is disposed between the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer and the second transparent conductive oxide layer, and the conductive index matching layer comprises a material that has an index of refraction that is less than the index of refraction of the second transparent conductive oxide layer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the conductive index matching layer comprises a material selected from a group consisting of silicon oxide, silicon oxynitride, silicon nitride, silicon oxycarbide, silicon oxycarbon nitride and indium tin oxide. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: forming a second p-i-n junction between the first p-i-n junction and the conductive index matching layer, wherein forming the second p-i-n junction comprises: forming a p-type microcrystalline silicon layer over the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer; forming an intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer over the p-type microcrystalline silicon layer; and forming an n-type amorphous silicon layer on the intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising forming an interface barrier layer between the p-type amorphous silicon layer and the intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer, wherein the interface barrier layer comprises silicon carbide. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: forming an intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer between a p-type amorphous silicon layer and a n-type microcrystalline silicon carbide layer, wherein the intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer is formed by the following steps comprising: providing a gas mixture to the surface of the substrate in a processing chamber, wherein the gas mixture includes a flow rate ratio of a hydrogen gas to a silane gas less than 6; controlling a substrate temperature between about 220 degrees Celsius and about 250 degrees Celsius; and controlling a process pressure in the processing chamber at between about 1 Torr and about 2 Torr. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer comprises an n-type microcrystalline silicon carbide layer. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming an antireflection coating layer on a second surface of the substrate, wherein the index of refraction of the formed antireflection coating layer is less than the index of refraction of the substrate; and forming a substrate barrier layer between the first surface of the substrate and the first transparent conductive oxide layer. 14. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: forming a first transparent conductive oxide layer over a first surface of a substrate, wherein the first transparent conductive oxide layer comprises tin and oxygen, and the substrate comprises a glass material having an iron concentration less than about 0.03% by weight; forming a conductive contact layer disposed on the first transparent conductive oxide layer, wherein the resistivity of a combination of the first transparent conductive oxide layer and the conductive contact layer is less than about 10 Ohms per square; and forming a first p-i-n iunction on the conductive contact layer, wherein forming the first p-i-n junction comprises: forming a p-doped amorphous silicon layer on the conductive contact layer; forming an intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer over the p-type amorphous silicon layer, wherein forming the intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer comprises: providing a gas mixture to the surface of the substrate in a processing chamber, wherein the gas mixture includes a flow rate ratio of a hydrogen gas to a silane gas less than 6; controlling a substrate temperature between about 220 degrees Celsius and about 250 degrees Celsius; and controlling a process pressure in the processing chamber at between about 1 Torr and about 2 Torr; and forming an n-type microcrystalline silicon layer on the conductive contact layer. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: forming an interface barrier layer between the p-type amorphous silicon layer and the intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer, wherein the interface barrier layer comprises a silicon carbide layer. 16. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: forming a first transparent conductive oxide layer over a first surface of a substrate, wherein the first transparent conductive oxide layer comprises tin and oxygen; forming a conductive contact layer disposed on the first transparent conductive oxide layer; forming a first p-i-n junction over the conductive contact layer, wherein forming the first p-i-n junction comprises: forming a p-type amorphous silicon layer on the conductive contact layer; forming an intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer over the p-type amorphous silicon layer, wherein forming the intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer comprises: providing a gas mixture to the surface of the substrate in a processing chamber, wherein the gas mixture includes a flow rate ratio of a hydrogen gas to a silane gas less than 6; controlling a substrate temperature between about 220 degrees Celsius and about 250 degrees Celsius; and controlling a process pressure in the processing chamber at between about 1 Torr and about 2 Torr; forming an n-type microcrystalline silicon layer on the intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer; forming a second p-i-n junction over the first p-i-n junction, wherein forming the second p-i-n junction comprises: forming a p-type microcrystalline silicon layer over the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer; forming an intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer over the p-type microcrystalline silicon layer; and forming an n-type amorphous silicon layer on the intrinsic type microcrystalline silicon layer; forming a conductive index matching layer over the first p-i-n junction; and forming a second transparent conductive oxide layer on the conductive index matching layer. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: forming an antireflection coating layer on a second surface of the substrate, wherein the index of refraction of the formed antireflection coating layer is less than the index of refraction of the substrate, and the substrate comprises a glass material having an iron concentration less than about 0.03% by weight; and forming a barrier layer between the first surface of the substrate and the first transparent conductive oxide layer. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the conductive contact layer comprises a niobium doped titanium oxide layer formed in a physical vapor deposition chamber. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the n-type microcrystalline silicon layer comprises silicon and carbon. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising forming an interface barrier layer between the p-type amorphous silicon layer and the intrinsic type amorphous silicon layer, wherein the interface barrier layer comprises silicon carbide. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the conductive index matching layer and the second transparent conductive oxide layer are disposed between the first p-i-n junction and the second p-i-n junction. 