Methods and systems are provided for generating a digital model of at least a part of an object referenced to a global coordinate system. An initial digital model, referenced to a local coordinate system associated with the optical device and representative of the respective part, is provided using an optical device at a relative location with respect to the object. The optical device has a plurality of visually exposed optical markers, at known locations with respect to the optical device and referenced to a marker coordinate system. The location of the optical device with respect to an external camera arrangement is determined, based on relating the relative locations of the markers with respect to one another, as they appear from a viewpoint of the external camera arrangement, to their relative locations as referenced to the marker coordinate system. The camera viewpoint is at a known location referenced to the global coordinate system. A transformed digital model is generated, representative of the respective part and referenced to the global coordinate system, based on modifying the initial digital model according to the location of the optical device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for providing a digital model of at least a part of an object referenced to a global coordinate system, comprising, for the or each said part: (a) providing an initial digital model representative of the respective part using an optical device at a respective relative location with respect to said object, wherein said initial digital model is referenced to a local coordinate system associated with said optical device, and wherein said optical device comprises a plurality of visually exposed optical markers, said markers being located at known locations with respect to said optical device referenced to a marker coordinate system; (b) determining said location of the optical device in step (a) with respect to an external camera arrangement, based on relating the relative locations of said markers with respect to one another, as they appear from a viewpoint of said external camera arrangement, to the relative locations of respective said markers with respect to one another as referenced to said marker coordinate system, and wherein said viewpoint is at a known location referenced to said global coordinate system; and (c) generating a transformed digital model representative of the respective part and referenced to said global coordinate system, based on modifying said initial digital model according to said determined location. 2. Method according to claim 1, comprising (d) repeating steps (a) to (c) a plurality of times, wherein each said time said optical device is at a different said respective relative location with respect to said object and a respective modified digital model being generated of a respective said part of said object, thereby generating a corresponding plurality of said modified digital models, and (e) combining said modified digital models thus generated into a unified digital model. 3. Method according to claim 1, wherein a camera coordinate system is associated with said camera arrangement corresponding to said viewpoint when said optical device is at said respective relative location with respect to said object. 4. Method according to claim 3, wherein in step (c), a transformation matrix T.sub.i is applied to said initial digital model, wherein said transformation matrix T.sub.i is configured for converting coordinates of said digital model from the local coordinate system to coordinates referenced to said global coordinate system, to provide said transformed digital model, wherein said transformation matrix T.sub.i is obtained from transformation relationship: A=T.sub.i*B*S.sub.i wherein: A is a known transformation matrix between the camera coordinate system and the global coordinate system; B is a known transformation matrix between the markers coordinate system and the local coordinate system; S.sub.i is a transformation matrix between the camera coordinate system and the marker coordinate system, determined based on said determination of said location in step (b). 5. Method according to claim 4, wherein matrix A is determined based on one of (i) said known location of said viewpoint with respect to said global coordinate system, and (ii) on executing a calibration procedure applied to a calibration object. 6. Method according to claim 4, wherein matrix B is determined via a calibration procedure applied to a calibration object. 7. Method according to claim 4, wherein in step (b) said camera arrangement provides at least one electronic 2D image of said markers with respect to a camera coordinate system, and obtaining said relative locations of said markers with respect to one another as they appear from said viewpoint from said 2D image, and determining said transformation matrix Si correlated to at least one of a geometrical rotation and a geometrical translation required to be applied to said locations of said markers referenced to said marker coordinate system to provide relative locations between said markers that match the relative locations of corresponding said markers as defined by said 2D image according to preset criteria. 8. Method according to claim 1, further comprising step (d) of defining at least one new, known location for said viewpoint with respect to said global coordinate system, and repeating steps (a) to (c) at least one time at said new location to generate each time a respective modified digital model of a respective said part of said object corresponding to said new location of said viewpoint, and combining said modified digital models into a unified digital model referenced to the same coordinate system. 9. Method according to claim 8, comprising repeating said step of defining for each of a plurality of different said new known locations for said viewpoint with respect to said global coordinate system, and combining said modified digital models into a unified digital model referenced to the same coordinate system. 10. Method according to claim 8, further comprising providing a plurality of visually exposed optical targets located in fixed spatial relationship with said object at known locations with reference to a target coordinate system. 11. Method according to claim 10, wherein at least one group of said targets is viewed by said camera arrangement at each said location of said viewpoint thereof, and further comprising determining a spatial relationship between the target coordinate system and the external camera arrangement at each said location of said respective viewpoint, based on relating the relative locations of said group of targets with respect to one another, as they appear from the respective viewpoint of said external camera arrangement, with the relative locations of respective said targets with respect to one another as referenced to said target coordinate system. 12. Method according to claim 11, wherein said modified digital models associated with respective different said viewpoints are combined based on said determined spatial relationships between the target coordinate system and the respective external camera arrangement at the respective said respective viewpoint. 13. Method according to claim 10, wherein said optical device further provides the location of at least one group of said targets at each said viewpoint thereof referenced to the respective said local coordinate system, and based on the location, providing a spatial relationship between the target coordinate system and the local coordinate system at each said respective viewpoint. 14. Method according to claim 13, wherein said modified digital models associated with respective different said viewpoints are combined based on said spatial relationships between the target coordinate system and the respective the local coordinate systems. 15. Method according to claim 1, wherein said camera arrangement comprises at least one first camera defining said viewpoint and at least one second camera rigidly coupled thereto, and further comprising providing a plurality of visually exposed optical targets located in fixed spatial relationship with said object at known locations with reference to a target coordinate system, wherein said targets are within a field of view of said second camera. 16. Method according to claim 15, further comprising determining a spatial relationship between the target coordinate system and said second camera, based on relating the relative locations of said targets with respect to one another, as they appear with respect to said second camera, with the relative locations of respective said targets with respect to one another as referenced to said target coordinate system. 17. Method according to claim 16, wherein at least one said respective relative location of said optical device with respect to said object is provided by independently moving said object and said optical device. 18. Method according to claim 17, wherein each one of said object and said optical device is independently moved with respect to multiple degrees of freedom. 19. Method according to claim 16, comprising repeating steps (a) to (c) at least two times, wherein each said time at least one of said object and said optical device is moved so that said optical device is at a different said respective relative location with respect to said object and a respective modified digital model being generated of a respective said part of said object, and combining said modified digital models thus generated into a unified digital model. 20. Method according to claim 16, wherein in step (c), a transformation matrix T.sub.ij is applied to said digital model, wherein said transformation matrix T.sub.ij is configured for converting surface coordinates of said digital model from the local coordinate system to coordinates referenced to said global coordinate system, to provide said transformed digital model, wherein said transformation matrix T.sub.ij is obtained from transformation relationship: T.sub.ij=*G*(S.sub.i).sup.-1*(B).sup.-1 wherein: G is a known transformation matrix between a first camera coordinate system associated with said first camera and a second camera coordinate system associated with said second camera; B is a known transformation matrix between the markers coordinate system and the local coordinate system; R.sub.j is a transformation matrix between the second camera coordinate system and the target coordinate system, determined in step (b), corresponding to the location of the object; S.sub.i is a transformation matrix between the first camera coordinate system and the marker coordinate system, determined in step (b), corresponding to the location of the optical device. 21. A system for providing a digital model of at least a part of an object referenced to a global coordinate system, comprising: (a) an optical device configured for providing a digital model representative of the respective part at a respective relative location with respect to said object, said first digital model being referenced to a local coordinate system associated with said optical device, and wherein said optical device comprises a plurality of visually exposed optical markers, said markers being located at known locations with respect to said optical device referenced to a marker coordinate system; (b) an external camera arrangement configured for determining a location of the optical device with respect to said external camera arrangement, based on relating the relative locations of said markers with respect to one another, as they appear from a viewpoint of said external camera arrangement, with the relative locations of respective said markers with respect to one another as referenced to said marker coordinate system, and wherein said viewpoint is at a known location referenced to said global coordinate system; and (c) microprocessor device configured for generating a transformed digital model representative of the respective part and referenced to said global coordinate system, based on modifying said first digital model according to said determined location. 22. System according to claim 21, wherein said camera arrangement is movable to provide at least one new viewpoint therefore. 23. System according to claim 21, wherein at least one of said optical device and said object are movable with respect to said camera arrangement. 24. System according to claim 23, wherein said camera arrangement comprises at least one first camera defining said viewpoint and at least one second camera rigidly coupled thereto, and further comprising a plurality of visually exposed optical targets located in fixed spatial relationship with said object at known locations with reference to a target coordinate system, wherein said targets are within a field of view of said second camera. 