A robotic system includes a robot having joints, actuators, and sensors, and a distributed controller. The controller includes command-level controller, embedded joint-level controllers each controlling a respective joint, and a joint coordination-level controller coordinating motion of the joints. A central data library (CDL) centralizes all control and feedback data, and a user interface displays a status of each joint, actuator, and sensor using the CDL. A parameterized action sequence has a hierarchy of linked events, and allows the control data to be modified in real time. A method of controlling the robot includes transmitting control data through the various levels of the controller, routing all control and feedback data to the CDL, and displaying status and operation of the robot using the CDL. The parameterized action sequences are generated for execution by the robot, and a hierarchy of linked events is created within the sequence.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a robot having a plurality of integrated system components, including a plurality of robotic joints each being moveable using at least one of a plurality of actuators, wherein the robot includes a plurality of sensors adapted for measuring feedback data at a corresponding one of the integrated system components; and a distributed controller adapted for controlling the integrated system components by communicating control data over multiple high-speed communication networks, wherein the distributed controller includes: a command-level controller operable for transmitting a control signal commanding a performance of an automated task by the robot; multiple embedded low-level controllers each adapted for directly controlling a respective one of the integrated system components; a joint coordination-level controller adapted for coordinating control of the integrated system components in response to the control signal; a central data library (CDL) adapted for centralizing all of the control data and feedback data; a user interface in electrical communication with the CDL, and adapted for displaying a status of each of the robotic joints, actuators, and sensors using information from the CDL; wherein the distributed controller displays via the user interface a parameterized action sequence having a hierarchy of linked events, and wherein the user interface allows the user to modify the parameterized action sequence via the user interface to change the control data in real time. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising a graphical editor device for creating control messages for storage in the CDL, wherein the user interface allows the content of a control message to be directly modified by the user at runtime. 3. The robotic system of claim 2, wherein the graphical editor is adapted to create the control messages in the form of an API Markup Language file (AML). 4. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising multiple communication nodes connected to the multiple high-speed communication networks, wherein the robotic system is configured to provide at least one of: automated handshaking between the communication nodes, authentication of messages transmitted between the communication nodes, and failure recovery for each of the communication nodes. 5. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the robotic system has multiple communication nodes, and wherein the robotic system utilizes a predetermined framework allowing the communication nodes to send to and receive data via the high-speed networks. 6. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the controller includes a graphical flow charting algorithm, and wherein the parameterized action sequences are graphically displayed as a series of linked command blocks created using the algorithm. 7. The robotic system of claim 6, wherein the robot is configured to learn a new parameterized action sequence by manually and sequentially moving at least some of the robotic joints through a series of points in at least one of Cartesian space and joint space, and then recording each of the points as part of a corresponding one of the command blocks. 8. A distributed controller adapted for controlling the motion of a robot via control data, the controller having a plurality of robotic joints, actuators, and a plurality of sensors adapted for determining feedback data at a corresponding one of the robotic joints, and comprising: a plurality of high-speed communication networks; a plurality of joint-level controllers each embedded in the robot in proximity to a corresponding one of the robotic joints being controlled thereby, and each adapted for processing the feedback data from a corresponding one of the robotic joints; a joint coordination-level controller adapted for coordinating the motion of the robotic joints via direct communication with each of the joint-level controllers; a command-level controller adapted for transmitting a signal commanding performance of the task to the joint coordination-level controller; a central data library (CDL) adapted for centralizing all of the control data and the feedback data; and a user interface in electrical communication with the CDL, and adapted for displaying a status of each of the robotic joints, actuators, and sensors using information from the CDL; wherein the distributed controller displays via the user interface a parameterized action sequence having a hierarchy of linked events, and wherein the user interface allows the user to modify the parameterized action sequence via the user interface to change the control data in real time. 9. The distributed controller of claim 8, further comprising a graphical editor device for creating control messages for storage in the CDL, wherein the user interface allows the content of the control messages to be directly modified by the user at runtime. 10. The distributed controller of claim 9, wherein the graphical editor is adapted to create the message in the form of an API Markup Language file (AML). 11. The distributed controller of claim 8, further comprising multiple communication nodes connected to the multiple high-speed communication networks, wherein the robotic system is configured to provide at least one of: automated handshaking between the communication nodes, authentication of messages transmitted between the communication nodes, and failure recovery for each of the communication nodes. 12. The distributed controller of claim 8, wherein the robotic system includes multiple communications nodes, and utilizes a predetermined framework to allow the communication nodes to send to and receive data from multiple points on the high-speed networks. 13. The distributed controller of claim 8, wherein the robotic system automatically routes all changes to the feedback and control data to the CDL for immediate display on a display screen of the user interface. 14. The distributed controller of claim 8, wherein the interactive real-time programming utilizes a graphical programming language to graphically abstract all of the feedback and control data as a series of linked command blocks. 15. The distributed controller of claim 14, wherein the distributed controller is adapted for adding a new parameterized action sequence to the CDL by recording a series of points in at least one of Cartesian space and joint space as the linked command blocks as the robotic joints are manually and sequentially moved through the series of points. 16. A method of controlling a robot using a distributed controller, the method comprising: transmitting control data through different control levels of the distributed controller to control motion of a plurality of robotic joints of the robot, the control levels including: a command-level controller adapted for transmitting a control signal commanding performance of an automated task by the robot, a joint coordination-level controller adapted for receiving the control signal and coordinating motion of at least some of the joints in response thereto, and a plurality of embedded joint-level controllers each adapted for processing the feedback data from a corresponding one of the robotic joints; automatically routing all control and feedback data from a plurality of robotic joints, actuators, and sensors to a centralized data library (CDL); displaying real-time graphical information describing the status and operation of the robotic joints, actuators, and sensors using information from the CDL; generating a parameterized action sequence for execution by the robot; creating a hierarchy of linked events within the parameterized action sequence; and executing the parameterized action sequence via a user interface that allows interaction with the user through at least one of a visual prompt and an audible prompts. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein generating the parameterized action sequence includes automatically abstracting the parameterized action sequence as a series of linked command blocks using a graphical flow charting algorithm. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein creating a hierarchy of linked events includes using calibrated completion conditions to determine sequencing priority and order. 