In a robotic system having a two-axis robotic wrist connected to a reference member, the wrist has a movable member movable relative to the reference member in pitch and yaw. A first serial chain linkage connects the movable member to the reference member and a second serial chain linkage connects the movable member to the reference member in parallel relationship with the first serial chain linkage. The linkages are configured to constrain the movable to spherical movement, and such that the robotic wrist is non-singular, non-overconstrained, and non-overactuated. Actuation of a pair of revolute joints connected to the reference member deflects the movable member in pitch and yaw. The roll angle resulting from deflection in pitch and yaw is that of an intersecting-shaft constant-velocity coupling connecting the reference member to the movable member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system having a two-axis robotic wrist, said system comprising: a reference member having a longitudinal axis, a movable member rotatably movable relative to the reference member, in an undeflected position of the movable member relative to the reference member said wrist having a pitch axis transverse to the longitudinal axis of the reference member for pitch rotation of the movable member relative thereto, a yaw axis perpendicular to the pitch axis and to the longitudinal axis of the reference member for yaw rotation of the movable member relative to the reference member, and a roll axis coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the reference member; a first serial chain linkage connecting the movable member to the reference member, said first serial chain linkage comprising a revolute-universal (RU) linkage having a revolute joint pivotally connecting the RU linkage to the reference member and a universal joint pivotally connecting the movable member to the RU linkage, in the undeflected position of the movable member said revolute joint having a rotation axis and being oriented such that the rotation axis is coaxial with the pitch axis of the wrist, and a second serial chain linkage connecting the movable member to the reference member in a parallel relationship with the first serial chain linkage, said second serial chain linkage comprising a revolute-spherical-revolute (RSR) linkage, said RU linkage being configured together with the RSR linkage such that the movable member is constrained to spherical movement about a center (C) defined by the intersection of the pitch axis, the yaw axis and the roll axis of the wrist, said parallel relationship of the first and second serial chain linkages of the robotic wrist being singularity free and being non-overconstrained. 2. The robotic system set forth in claim 1 wherein the universal joint of the RU linkage comprises first and second revolute joints, in the undeflected position of the movable member the first revolute joint has a rotation axis coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the reference member and the second revolute joint has a rotation axis coaxial with the yaw axis of the wrist. 3. The robotic system set forth in claim 1 wherein the RSR linkage comprises a first revolute joint pivotally connecting the RSR linkage to the reference member, said first revolute joint having a rotation axis that is generally parallel to and longitudinally offset from the yaw axis of the wrist in the undeflected position of the movable member, and a second revolute joint pivotally connecting the RSR linkage to the movable member, said second revolute joint having a rotation axis that is generally parallel to and longitudinally offset from the yaw axis of the wrist in the undeflected position of the movable member. 4. The robotic system set forth in claim 3 further comprising a yaw actuating system operable to actuate the RSR linkage to drive rotation of the movable member in yaw relative to the reference member, and a pitch actuating system operable to actuate the RU linkage to drive rotation of the movable member in pitch relative to the reference member, the robotic system being limited to said yaw actuating system and said pitch actuating system for driving movement of the movable member relative to the reference member. 5. The robotic system set forth in claim 4 wherein the RSR linkage further comprises a spherical joint intermediate the first revolute joint and the second revolute joint, said yaw actuating system being mounted at least in part on the reference member and operatively connected to the RSR linkage intermediate the first revolute joint and the spherical joint. 6. The robotic system set forth in claim 5 wherein the pitch actuating system is mounted at least in part on the reference member and operatively connected to the RU linkage intermediate the revolute joint of the RU linkage and the universal joint thereof. 7. The robotic system set forth in claim 3 wherein the universal joint of the RU linkage comprises first and second revolute joints, in the undeflected position of the movable member the first revolute joint has a rotation axis coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the reference member and the second revolute joint has a rotation axis coaxial with the yaw axis of the wrist, the RU linkage and the RSR linkage being configured such that yaw deflection of the movable member is substantially two times a yaw deflection of the universal (U) joint in the RU linkage at said first revolute joint of said universal joint thereof other than in the undeflected position of the movable member. 8. The robotic system set forth in claim 1 wherein the RSR linkage comprises a spherical joint intermediate the movable member and the reference member. 9. The robotic system set forth in claim 8 wherein the spherical joint has a rotation axis coaxial with the rotation axis of the revolute joint of the RU linkage, said spherical joint rotation axis and said rotation axis of the revolute joint of the RU linkage lying on the pitch axis of the wrist in the undeflected position of the movable member. 10. The robotic system set forth in claim 8 wherein the spherical joint comprises a series of three revolute joints configured and arranged to be equivalent to a spherical joint, one of said three revolute joints having a rotation axis coaxial with the rotation axis of the revolute joint of the RU linkage. 11. The robotic system set forth in claim 1 further comprising a pitch actuating system operatively connected to the RU linkage intermediate the revolute joint and the universal joint thereof to drive rotation of the movable member in pitch relative to the reference member, and a crank angle reduction mechanism operatively connecting the pitch actuating system to the RU linkage whereby angular actuation of the crank angle reduction mechanism by the pitch actuating system effects pitch rotation of the movable member such that the pitch rotation of the movable member is substantially greater than the angular actuation of the crank angle reduction mechanism. 12. The robotic system set forth in claim 11 wherein the crank angle reduction mechanism comprises a scissor link, said scissor link comprising a crank pivotally connected to the reference member and a coupler pivotally connected to the RU linkage intermediate the revolute joint and the universal joint at a location offset from the pitch axis of the wrist, said crank and said coupler further being pivotally connected to each other. 13. The robotic system set forth in claim 1 wherein the reference member and the movable member comprise a pair of links of the robotic system, said RU linkage further comprising no more than two additional links, and said RSR linkage comprising no more than four additional links such that the robotic system comprises no more than 8 links. 14. The robotic system set forth in claim 13 wherein the spherical joint of the RSR linkage comprises a third revolute joint, a fourth revolute joint and a fifth revolute joint of said RSR linkage, the revolute joint of the RU linkage comprising a first revolute joint thereof, the universal joint of the RU linkage comprising a second revolute joint, and a third revolute joint of said RU linkage, said robotic system comprising no more than said eight revolute joints for movement of the movable member relative to the reference member. 15. The robotic system set forth in claim 1 wherein the RU linkage and the RSR linkage together comprise an intersecting-shaft constant velocity coupling between the reference member and the movable member. 16. The robotic system set forth in claim 15 wherein the RU linkage and the RSR linkage together constrain roll movement of the movable member, relative to the reference member, to a constant velocity constraint established by the RU linkage and RSR linkage. 17. A robotic system comprising a reference member having a longitudinal axis, and a two-axis robotic wrist connected to said reference member and having a movable member movable relative to said reference member in pitch and yaw, the robotic wrist being configured to limit yaw and pitch movement of the movable member to spherical movement thereof relative to the reference member with the robotic wrist being singularity free, being non-overconstrained, and being non-overactuated, wherein the robotic wrist comprises a pair of serial chain linkages, each said serial chain linkage connecting the movable member with the reference members, said serial chain linkages being in parallel relationship with each other, wherein the reference member has a longitudinal axis and the robotic wrist has a pitch axis and yaw axis, each of said serial chain linkages comprising a revolute joint pivotally connecting the respective serial chain linkage to the reference member, the revolute joint of one of said serial chain linkages having a rotation axis that in an undeflected position of the movable member is coaxial with the pitch axis of the wrist and transverse to the longitudinal axis of the reference member, the movable member being movable in pitch in response to rotation of the one of said serial chain linkages at the revolute joint thereof, the revolute joint of said other one of said serial chain linkages having a rotation axis parallel to and longitudinally offset from the yaw axis of the wrist, said movable member being movable in yaw in response to rotation of the said other one of said serial chain linkages at the revolute joint thereof. 18. The robotic system set forth in claim 17 wherein the robotic wrist comprises an intersecting-shaft constant velocity coupling between the reference member and the movable member. 19. The robotic system set forth in claim 18 wherein the robotic wrist is configured to constrain roll movement of the movable member, relative to the reference member, to a constant velocity constraint established by the wrist. 20. The robotic system set forth in claim 17 wherein said system is free from interferences throughout movement of the movable member up to at least .+-.90 degrees in any direction of movement thereof relative to the reference member. 21. The robotic system set forth in claim 20 wherein said system is free from interferences throughout movement of the movable member up to at least .+-.100 degrees in any direction of movement thereof relative to the reference member. 22. The robotic system set forth in claim 17 wherein the robotic wrist, apart from any actuating system operable to drive movement of the movable member, is constructed entirely from revolute joints, said wrist comprising no more than eight said revolute joints. 23. A robotic system having a two-axis wrist, said system comprising: a reference member having a longitudinal axis; a movable member rotatably movable relative to the reference member, in an undeflected position of the movable member relative to the reference member said movable member having a pitch axis transverse to the longitudinal axis of the reference member for pitch rotation of the movable member relative thereto, a yaw axis perpendicular to the pitch axis of the movable member and to the longitudinal axis of the reference member for yaw rotation of the movable member relative to the reference member; a first serial chain linkage connecting the movable member to the reference member; and a second serial chain linkage connecting the movable member to the reference member in parallel relationship with the first serial chain linkage; said first and second serial chain linkages being configured such that the robotic system is singularity free, is non-overconstrained, and wherein the first and second serial chain linkages defining an intersecting-shaft constant velocity coupling between the reference member and the movable member, wherein the first serial chain linkage comprises a revolute-universal (RU) linkage having a revolute joint pivotally connecting the RU linkage to the reference member and a universal joint pivotally connecting the movable member to the RU linkage, the second serial chain linkage comprising a revolute-spherical-revolute (RSR) linkage having a first revolute joint pivotally connecting the RSR linkage to the reference member and a second revolute joint pivotally connecting the reference member to the RSR linkage. 24. The robotic system set forth in claim 23 wherein the revolute joint of the RU linkage has a rotation axis that is transverse to the longitudinal axis of the reference member in an undeflected position of the movable member, and wherein said rotation axis is coaxial with the pitch axis of the movable member in the undeflected position of the movable member. 