A radially expandable, endovascular stent designed for placement at a site of vascular injury, for inhibiting restenosis at the site, a method of using, and a method of making the stent. The stent includes a radially expandable body formed of one or more metallic filaments and a liquid-infusible mechanical anchoring layer attached to or formed in outer surface of the filaments. A drug coating in the stent is composed of a substantially polymer-free composition of an anti-restenosis drug, and has a substratum infused in the anchoring layer and a substantially continuous surface stratum of drug that is brought into direct contact with the vessel walls at the vascular site. Thus, the rate of release of the anti-restenosis drug from the surface stratum into said vascular site is determined solely by the composition of said drug coating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for achieving an effective rate of release of an anti-restenosis drug from a radially expandable stent placed within a vessel at a vascular site of injury, comprising bringing the vessel in contact with the stent having a substantially continuous, substantially polymer-free surface drug coating containing at least about 90 weight percent of an anti-restenosis drug, wherein the surface drug coating is attached to the stent using a liquid-infusible mechanical anchoring layer having an average thickness of at least 3 .mu.m, where the surface drug coating is infused into the anchoring layer, forming a drug coating substratum within the anchoring layer, forming over the drug coating substratum, a substantially continuous surface stratum of drug and, wherein the rate of release of the anti-restenosis drug from the surface drug coating is determined solely by the composition of the surface drug coating, wherein the drug coating substratum constitutes no more than about 25% of said surface drug coating, and the anti-restenosis drug has the structure: ##STR00005## where (i) R is H, a linear or branched short-chain alkyl, alkyl alcohol, alkyl ether or aldal group containing no more than ten carbon atoms. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein is R is CH.sub.2--X--OH, and X is a linear or branched alkyl group containing 1 to 10 carbon atoms or (CH.sub.2).sub.n--O--(CH.sub.2).sub.n, where n is 1-3. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein R is (CH.sub.2).sub.n--O--(CH.sub.2).sub.n where n is 1-3. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the surface stratum of drug has a thickness of between about 10 and 30 .mu.m. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said stent is formed of an alloy selected from the group consisting of cobalt/chromium, stainless steel, and platinum iridium. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said liquid-infusible mechanical anchoring layer is produced by electroplating said layer over the stent. 