A clip (6) of molded plastics material for fitting on a pipe or duct in particular a blow-molded automotive fluid duct, comprises an open ring of generally C-shape having facing arms (20) that are curved and with open ends that can be sprung apart and together again to resiliently fit the clip on the pipe or duct. The facing arms (20) have profiled inner surfaces that engage with complementary profiles carried by the pipe or duct, namely the facing arms (20) have a substantially T-shaped profile (23/24), that fits between pairs of complementary spaced-apart arcuate ribs and recess carried by the pipe or duct. The clip (6) is easy to fit and remove while providing firm holding power and good pull-out strength.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A clip of molded plastics material for fitting onto a pipe or duct, the clip comprising an open ring of generally C-shape having facing arms, the facing arms having open ends that can be sprung apart and together to resiliently fit the clip onto a pipe or duct of corresponding diameter, each facing arm having i) a profiled inner surface adapted to engage with complementary profiles carried by the pipe or duct, whereby the clip is held onto the pipe or duct, and ii) an inwardly-directed arcuate rib extending along the inner face of the facing arm and forming a substantially T-shaped profile, the profile having a projecting edge, wherein each substantially T-shaped profile forms in each facing arm a pair of arcuate recesses that are adapted to receive a pair of complementary spaced-apart arcuate ribs carried by the pipe or duct and, wherein the projecting edge of each profile faces inwards and forms part of a generally cylindrical inside surface of the clip, such that when the clip is fitted onto a pipe or duct the projecting edge fits into the complementary profiles carried by the pipe or duct and the arcuate ribs carried by the pipe or duct fit into the arcuate recesses formed in each facing arm, whereby the clip is held onto the pipe or duct. 2. The clip according to claim 1, wherein a central part of the C-shaped clip has an internal surface generally of partially-cylindrical shape that is extended on each side by the surface of the inwardly-facing edge of the substantially T-shaped profile. 3. The clip according to claim 2, wherein said central part comprises on its outside an outwardly-projecting reinforcing rib. 4. The clip according to claim 2, comprising inclined shoulders where the substantially T-shaped profile merges with said central part. 5. The clip according to claim 1, wherein the central part of the C-shaped clip carries at least one outwardly-extending member for securing cables or the like to the clip or for securing the clip to a support. 6. The clip according to claim 1, wherein the substantially T-shaped profiles extend to adjacent the ends of the opposing arms, said ends of the arms being formed as hooks by the top parts of the substantially T-shaped section merging into its inner edge. 7. The clip according to claim 1, wherein said recessed parts open into the sides of the clip's arms. 8. The clip of claim 1 fitted onto a pipe or duct, wherein the pipe or duct comprises two pairs of side-by side arcuate ribs on opposite sides of a cylindrical part of the pipe or duct, the two pairs of side-by side arcuate ribs being aligned with one another leaving uninterrupted cylindrical surface parts on opposite sides of the pipe or duct between the ends of the two pairs of side-by-side arcuate ribs, said pairs of side-by-side arcuate ribs on the pipe or duct being received in the pairs of arcuate recesses on either side of the substantially T-shaped profiles on the facing arms of the clip. 9. The clip of claim 8 fitted onto an automotive fluid duct. 10. A pipe or duct adapted to be fitted with a clip according to claim 1, wherein the pipe or duct comprises two pairs of side-by side arcuate ribs on opposite sides of a cylindrical part of the pipe or duct, the two pairs of side-by side arcuate ribs being aligned with one another leaving uninterrupted cylindrical surface parts on opposite sides of the pipe or duct between the ends of the two pairs of side-by-side arcuate ribs, said pairs of side-by-side arcuate ribs on the pipe or duct being adapted to be received in the pairs of arcuate recesses on either side of the substantially T-shaped profiles on the facing arms of the clip. 11. The pipe or duct of claim 10, wherein ends of said side-by-side ribs comprise inclined shoulders that extend from the tops of the ribs to said uninterrupted cylindrical surface part of the pipe or duct. 12. The pipe or duct as recited in claim 10, wherein said pairs of side-by-side arcuate ribs are placed on a part of the pipe or duct spaced apart axially along the pipe or duct from at least one flexible section that includes a bellows. 13. The pipe or duct of claim 10 which is a blow molded pipe or duct of formed of plastics material, an extruded pipe or duct formed of plastics material or an injection molded pipe or duct formed of plastics material. 14. The pipe or duct of claim 13, which is a blow-molded pipe or duct of plastics material. 15. A duct of claim 10 which is an automotive fluid duct. 