A coordinate measuring device comprises a housing movably supported on a base and mounting a vertical pillar along which rides a carriage engaged by a horizontally translating arm. A turret at each end of the arm houses a rotating body connected to a probe. The rotation of the base, the vertical movement of the carriage, the horizontal movement of the arm and the rotation of the probes are driven by motors in the housing. The rotation of the motors are transmitted by a cable and pulley assembly to the arm and carriage. The cable controlling the transversal movement of the arm has its opposite ends attached to the opposite extremity of the arm, and is run respectively up and down the portion of the pillar above and below the carriage in order to maintain constant lengths and tension of the cables as the carriage moves up and down the pillar. The rotation of the probes and that of the base are coordinated to keep the probes at a constant angle in relation to the measured surface. Tools such as a laser beam emitter may be substituted for the probes turning the device into a robot. The motors can be omitted and the probe brought manually on the locus to be measured.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device which comprises: a base; a platform movably supported on said base; a pillar fixedly mounted on said platform and extending along a first axis; a carriage translatable along, and supported by said pillar; a cross-arm slidingly engaged upon said carriage, translatable about a second axis perpendicular to said first axis and having a first extremity; and encoders for indicating the linear position of said carriage along said first axis, the linear position of said arm along said second axis, and the angular position of said housing in relation to said base. 2. The device of claim 1, which further comprises: a turret secured to said first extremity; a body within said turret, said body being rotatable about a third axis; and an encoder for indicating the angular position of said body about said third axis. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein said device further comprises at least one tool mounted at said first extremity. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein said tool comprises a sensing element. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein said sensing element comprises an imaging apparatus. 6. The device of claim 2, which further comprises a shaft coupled at a first end to said body and a tool mounted at an opposite end of said shaft. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein said shaft projects in a direction parallel to and spaced apart from said third axis. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein said tool comprises a sensing probe; and whereby said probe may be positioned at a locus on a workpiece and the spacial coordinates of said locus may be determined from indications of said encoders. 9. The device of claim 8, which further comprises a second probe secured to a second extremity of said arm. 10. The device of claim 2, which further comprises: a motorized mechanism for rotating said platform and pillar about said first axis; first and second motors, each of said motors having a driving pulley; a plurality of direction-altering pulleys associated with said pillar and carriage; and flexible, elongated elements engaging said pulleys to translate said carriage up and down said pillar and bilaterally translate said arm about said carriage. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein said flexible elongated elements comprises cables made of braided, small cross-diameter steel strands surrounded by a spiraling larger cross-diameter wire; each of a plurality of said pulleys has a cable-engaging peripheral groove incised with hatchings shaped and dimensioned to mesh with sections of said wire. 12. The device of claim 10 which further comprises: a third motor, said motor having a first driving pulley; and, flexible, elongated elements engaging said pulley to rotate said body about said third axis. 13. The device of claim 12 which further comprises: a shaft extending from said body about said third axis; an axle extending coaxially with said shaft; a driving sheave attached to a proximal end of said axle; a fourth motor having a second driving pulley; flexible, elongated elements engaging said second driving pulley to rotate said axle about said third axis; a first bevel gear attached to a distal end of said shaft; a second bevel gear coupled to said first bevel gear; a finger attached at a proximal end by said second bevel gear; an encoder for indicating the angular position of said finger; and a tool at a distal end of said finger. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein said tool comprises a radiation emitter. 15. The device if claim 14, which further comprises: a laser source; a plurality of mirrors positioned about said arm and finger to reflect a beam issuing from said laser source through said finger. 16. The device of claim 13, which further comprises a control unit activating said motors and automatedly positioning said tool in space. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein said control unit is further adapted to run said tool along a path. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein said control unit activates said motors and automatically positions said tool in contact with at least one point on a workpiece surface. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein said control unit is adapted to coordinate said linear positions and said position of said housing. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein said control unit is further adapted to intermittently position said tool on a series of discrete points on said surface. 21. The device of claim 2, wherein said elongated elements comprise cables made of synthetic plastic material. 22. The device of claim 10, wherein a first of said flexible elongated elements comprises a cable secured at both ends to said carriage and engaging a first direction-altering pulley in an upper region of said pillar, a second direction-altering pulley in a lower region of said pillar and one of said direction-altering pulleys being driven by a first of said motors. 23. The device of claim 22, wherein said cross-arm further comprises a second extremity opposite said first extremity; and wherein a second of said flexible elongated elements comprises a cable secured at opposite ends to said first and second extremities respectively, running up and down portions of said pillar above and below said carriage, and engaging a pulley driven by a second of said motors. 24. The device of claim 23, wherein said device further comprises: a cable and pulley mechanism linking said body to one of said motors, and wherein said mechanism comprises a close-loop cable running up and down portions of said pillar above and below said carriage. 25. The device of claim 13, exhibiting a diametral accuracy of no greater than two microns and a linear accuracy of no greater than five microns. 26. The device of claim 1, wherein said platform is rotationally or translationally supported on said base. 