A seal-protected perimeter partition valve apparatus defines a vacuum and pressure sealed space within a larger space confining a substrate processing chamber with optimized geometry, minimized footprint, and 360.degree. substrate accessibility. A compact perimeter partitioned assembly with seal protected perimeter partition valve and internally contained substrate placement member further provides processing system modularity and substantially minimized system footprint.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a substrate processing system vessel; a substrate processing chamber; and said processing system vessel comprising: a pressure tight vessel space; a top vessel plate; a bottom vessel plate; a top port; a bottom port; and said substrate processing chamber comprising: a perimeter partitioned assembly (PPA); a lid assembly; and said PPA comprising: a substrate supporting member; a perimeter partition valve (PPV); a PPV bonnet; a substrate placement member; a pumping port; and an accessory port; said lid assembly comprising: a gas delivery manifold; wherein said bottom port is formed within said bottom vessel plate of said processing system vessel and said top port is formed within said top vessel plate of said processing system vessel; wherein said PPV bonnet is pressure sealed to said bottom port of said processing system vessel and said lid assembly is pressure sealed to said top port of said processing system vessel to form said substrate processing chamber. 2. The substrate processing system as in claim 1 wherein said substrate placement member includes a vertical substrate placement actuator for providing vertical substrate translation; and said actuator is contained within said processing chamber. 3. The substrate processing system as in claim 1 wherein said processing system vessel further comprising a substrate translating member. 4. The substrate processing system as in claim 3 further comprising a load-lock chamber. 5. The substrate processing system as in claim 4 wherein said load-lock chamber comprises: a bottom load-lock assembly; and a top load-lock assembly; wherein said bottom load-lock assembly is pressure sealed to said bottom port of said processing system vessel and said top load-lock assembly is pressure sealed to said top port of said processing system vessel to form said load-lock chamber. 6. A substrate processing system as in claim 1 wherein said processing chamber comprises a chamber wall; and said system further includes a gas conduit, said gas conduit passing through said wall of said chamber and connected to said bellows. 7. A substrate processing system as in claim 1 wherein said processing chamber is an atomic layer deposition (ALD) processing chamber. 