In one implementation, a method is disclosed in which a lock sensing mode is entered for a robotic surgical instrument. In the lock sensing mode, the degrees of freedom of movement in the robotic surgical instrument are switchably reduced. Further in the lock sensing mode, one or more end effectors of the robotic surgical instrument are switchably clamped together in the robotic surgical instrument. An increased level of torque may also be applied to the end effectors to increase a gripping force applied by the one or more end effectors in response to the reduced degrees of freedom of movement in the robotic surgical instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for a robotic surgical system comprising: sensing for a first mode selection signal to enter a lock sensing mode; in response to the lock sensing mode, sensing for a first hard stop in a first control input mechanism to enter a lock mode for a robotic surgical tool; in response to the lock mode, locking a wrist of the robotic surgical tool, clamping end effectors of the robotic surgical tool together, increasing a torque applied to the end effectors, and sensing for a second hard stop in the first control input mechanism to exit the lock mode for the robotic surgical tool; and in response to the lock sensing mode, sensing for a second mode selection signal to exit the lock sensing mode. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first control input mechanism is a pair of master grips of a touch sensitive handle. 3. A method for a robotic surgical system comprising: sensing for a first double click of the pair of master grips to enter a lock sensing mode; sensing for a first hard stop of the pair of master grips to enter a lock mode for a robotic surgical tool; sensing for a second hard stop of the pair of master grips to exit the lock mode for the robotic surgical tool; and sensing for a second double click of the pair of master grips to exit the lock sensing mode. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein a second control input mechanism controls entry into and exit from the lock sensing mode. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the second control input mechanism is a mode selection switch, the sensing for the first mode selection signal is a sensing for a first activation of the mode selection switch, and the sensing for the second mode selection signal is a sensing for a second activation of the mode selection switch. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: prior to clamping the end effectors together, ratcheting the end effectors of the robotic surgical tool in response to the lock mode. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: releasing end effectors of the robotic surgical tool in response to sensing the second hard stop. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: unlocking the wrist of the robotic surgical tool in response to sensing the second hard stop. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one or more elements of the method are controlled by instructions stored on a computer readable medium and performed by a processor. 10. A method for a robotic surgical system comprising: squeezing grips of a touch sensitive handle twice over a predetermined distance within a predetermined period of time to enter a lock sensing mode; in the lock sensing mode, squeezing the grips of the touch sensitive handle to within a predetermined percentage of a hard stop to enter a lock mode; locking a wrist of the robotic surgical instrument in response to entering the lock mode; and applying a maximum torque to at least one end effector to apply a maximum tip force to the tissue regardless of cable stretch in the robotic surgical instrument in response to entering the lock mode. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: in the lock mode, squeezing the grips of the touch sensitive handle to within the predetermined percentage of the hard stop to exit the lock mode; and reducing the torque to the at least one end effector in response to exiting the lock mode. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: in the lock sensing mode, squeezing the grips of the touch sensitive handle twice over the predetermined distance within the predetermined period of time to exit the lock sensing mode. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one or more elements of the method are controlled by instructions stored on a computer readable medium and performed by a processor. 14. A method comprising: sensing for a first double click of a pair of master grips to enter an alternate sensing mode; in response to the alternate sensing mode, sensing for an alternate user input signal from a control input mechanism to enter an alternate tool mode; in response to the alternative tool mode, alternatively controlling a robotic surgical tool, and sensing for the alternate user input signal to exit the alternate tool mode; in response to exiting the alternative tool mode, sensing for a second double click of the pair of master grips to exit the alternate sensing mode. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of elements of the method are controlled by instructions stored on a computer readable medium and performed by a processor. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the control input mechanism is a mode selection switch. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the control input mechanism is the pair of master grips of a touch sensitive handle, and the sensing for the alternate user input signal is for the pair of master grips to exceed a hard stop or a percentage thereof. 18. The method of claim 3, further comprising: locking a wrist of the robotic surgical tool in response to the lock mode. 19. The method of claim 18, ratcheting end effectors of the robotic surgical tool in response to the lock mode. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: clamping end effectors of the robotic surgical tool together and increasing the torque applied to the end effectors in response to the lock mode. 21. The method of claim 18, further comprising: releasing end effectors of the robotic surgical tool in response to sensing the second hard stop. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: unlocking the wrist of the robotic surgical tool in response to sensing the second hard stop. 