The present invention discloses apparatuses and methods for simultaneous viewing and reading top and bottom images from a workpiece. The present ID reader can comprise an enclosure covering a top and bottom section of the workpiece with optical elements to guide the light from the workpiece images to a camera. The optical element can be disposed to receive images from a high angle with respect to the surface of the workpiece. The present ID reader can further comprise a light source assembly to illuminate the image. The light source assembly can utilize a coaxial light path with the images, preferably for bright field illumination. The light source assembly can also utilize a non-coaxial light path, preferably for dark field illumination. In an embodiment, the simultaneous images reaching the camera are separate into two distinct images on two different sections of the camera. In another embodiment, the simultaneous images reaching the camera are superimposed into one image on the camera.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An aligner/reader for simultaneous reading top and bottom sections of a workpiece, comprising: a rotating chuck for rotating the workpiece; an enclosure with an opening, the opening enclosing a portion of the workpiece during the workpiece rotation, wherein the enclosure does not enclose the whole workpiece; a sensor for identifying an orientation of the workpiece; a camera in communication of the enclosure; a first light bending assembly disposed within the enclosure to guide a first pathway from the top section of the workpiece to the opening and to the camera; and a second light bending assembly disposed within the enclosure to guide a second pathway from the bottom section of the workpiece to the opening and to the camera. 2. An aligner/reader as in claim 1 further comprising a coaxial light source for illuminating the workpiece at a substantially normal angle with the workpiece surface, and a non-coaxial light source for illuminating the workpiece at an acute angle with respect to the workpiece surface, and wherein the coaxial light source and the non-coaxial light source are shielded from each other. 3. An aligner/reader as in claim 1 wherein the first and second light bending assemblies simultaneously form separate images in the camera. 4. An aligner/reader as in claim 1 wherein the first and second light bending assemblies form a superimposed image in the camera. 5. An aligner/reader as in claim 1 further comprising a first light beam to provide a bright field image and a second light beam to provide a dark field image to be received by the camera. 6. An aligner/reader as in claim 1 wherein the camera is configured to receive images from the top section and the bottom section of the workpiece, wherein the top section and the bottom section each comprises a portion of a peripheral edge of the workpiece, and wherein the top section and the bottom section are substantially smaller than the whole workpiece. 7. A robotic assembly comprising: an end effector for transferring a workpiece; a rotating chuck coupled to the body of the robotic assembly for rotating the workpiece during workpiece transferring; an enclosure with an opening, the opening enclosing a portion of the workpiece during the workpiece rotation, the enclosure coupled to the body of the robotic assembly, wherein the enclosure does not enclose the whole workpiece; a camera in communication of the enclosure; a first light bending assembly disposed within the enclosure to guide a first pathway from a top section of the workpiece to the opening and to the camera; and a second light bending assembly disposed within the enclosure to guide a second pathway from a bottom section of the workpiece to the opening and to the camera, wherein the camera reads the top and bottom of the workpiece simultaneously for ID mark identification. 8. A robotic assembly as in claim 7 further comprising a coaxial light source assembly, wherein the coaxial light source assembly utilizes a portion of the light pathways in the light bending assemblies for illuminating the workpiece. 9. A robotic assembly as in claim 8 further comprising a non-coaxial light source for illuminating the workpiece at an acute angle with respect to the workpiece surface, wherein the coaxial light source and the non-coaxial light source are shielded from each other. 10. A robotic assembly as in claim 7 wherein the first and second light bending assemblies simultaneously form separate images in the camera. 11. A robotic assembly as in claim 7 wherein the first and second light bending assemblies form a superimposed image in the camera. 12. A robotic assembly as in claim 7 further comprising a first light beam to provide a bright field image and a second light beam to provide a dark field image to be received by the camera. 13. A robotic assembly as in claim 7 wherein the camera is configured to receive images from the top section and the bottom section of the workpiece, wherein the top section and the bottom section each comprises a portion of a peripheral edge of the workpiece, and wherein the top section and the bottom section are substantially smaller than the whole workpiece. 