One embodiment includes an application of multilayer thermo-reversible dry adhesives in robotic handling of objects.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of moving an object comprising: providing a robot having a robot arm and a thermo-reversible dry adhesive attached to the robot arm; heating the dry adhesive and pressing the adhesive against an object to make contact; cooling down the adhesive so that a strong adhesive bond is formed; controlling the robot arm to carry the object to a target location; and releasing the object comprising heating the dry adhesive again and using a force not greater than 2 N/cm.sup.2 to detach the robot arm and adhesive from the object. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the adhesive bond has a pull-off force greater than 10 N/cm.sup.2. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 comprising using a force not greater than 0.3 N/cm.sup.2 to detach the robot arm and adhesive from the object. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the thermo-reversible dry adhesive comprises a shape memory polymer layer and a dry adhesive layer underlying the shape memory polymer layer. 5. A method as set forth in claim 4 wherein the dry adhesive layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 6. A method as set forth in claim 4 wherein the shape memory polymer layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the object comprises a sheet of glass. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the robot further comprises a thermal electric device comprising a PN junction constructed and arranged so that current flowing through the PN junction in one direction causes the device to heat one side thereof and current flowing through the PN junction in the opposite direction causes one side thereof to cool the device, the thermal electric device being positioned to heat and cool the thermo-reversible dry adhesive. 9. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the object comprises an automotive windshield glass. 