Disclosed herein is a method of computer generating a three-dimensional surface model of an arthroplasty target region of a bone forming a joint. The method may include: generating two-dimensional images of at least a portion of the bone; generating an open-loop contour line along the arthroplasty target region in at least some of the two-dimensional images; and generating the three-dimensional model of the arthroplasty target region from the open-loop contour lines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing an arthroplasty jig, the method comprising: generating two-dimensional images of at least a portion of a bone forming a joint; using at least one computer processor to generate a first three-dimensional computer model of the at least a portion of the bone from the two-dimensional images; using at least one computer processor to generate a second three-dimensional computer model of the at least a portion of the bone from the two-dimensional images; causing the first and second three-dimensional computer models to have in common a reference position, wherein the reference position includes at least one of a location or an orientation relative to an origin; generating a first type of data with the first three-dimensional computer model, wherein the first three-dimensional computer model is a bone only model; generating a second type of data with the second three-dimensional computer model, wherein the second three-dimensional computer model is a bone and cartilage model; employing the reference position to integrate the first and second types of data into an integrated jig data; and using the integrated jig data at a manufacturing machine to manufacture the arthroplasty jig. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the bone only and bone and cartilage models represent a degenerated state of the joint. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first type of data includes at least one of saw cut or drill hole information, and the second type of data includes surface contour information of the at least a portion of the bone. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the saw cut and drill hole information includes at least one of location, orientation or size of at least one of a proposed arthroplasty saw cut or drill hole. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second three-dimensional computer model is generated at least in part from open-loop contour lines derived at least in part from the two-dimensional images. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the second three-dimensional computer model is generated at least in part from closed-loop contour lines derived at least in part from the two-dimensional images. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first three-dimensional computer model is a three-dimensional volumetric model. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the second three-dimensional computer model is a three-dimensional surface model. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the two-dimensional images are MRI images. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the two-dimensional images are CT images. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference position is at least one of a point, multiple points, a vector, a plane, or a plane plus a point. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference position is near the joint in the two-dimensional images. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the joint is at least one of a knee, elbow, wrist, ankle, shoulder, hip or vertebrae interface. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein a change in location or orientation relative to the origin for one of the three-dimensional models causes an equal change in location or orientation relative to the origin for the other of the three-dimensional models. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone to candidate jig blanks; selecting from the candidate jig blanks a jig blank with the smallest dimensions that are able to accommodate the dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone; and providing the selected jig blank to the manufacturing machine. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: mathematically modifying the dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone and using the mathematically modified dimensions in determining which candidate jig blank to select. 17. The method of claim 15, where the dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone are obtained from at least one of the two-dimensional images or the three-dimensional images. 18. An arthroplasty jig manufactured according to claim 1. 19. A method of manufacturing an arthroplasty jig, the method comprising: generating two-dimensional images of at least a portion of a bone forming a joint; using at least one computer processor to generate a first three-dimensional computer model of the at least a portion of the bone from the two-dimensional images; using at least one computer processor to generate a second three-dimensional computer model of the at least a portion of the bone from the two-dimensional images; causing the first and second three-dimensional computer models to have in common a reference position, wherein the reference position includes at least one of a location or an orientation relative to an origin; generating a first type of data with the first three-dimensional computer model, wherein the first three-dimensional computer model represents an approximation of the at least a portion of the bone in a pre-degenerated state; generating a second type of data with the second three-dimensional computer model, wherein the second three-dimensional computer model represents the at least a portion of the bone with cartilage in a degenerated state; employing the reference position to integrate the first and second types of data into an integrated jig data; and using the integrated jig data at a manufacturing machine to manufacture the arthroplasty jig. 20. A method of manufacturing an arthroplasty jig, the method comprising: generating two-dimensional images of at least a portion of a bone forming a joint; extending an open-loop contour line along an arthroplasty target region in at least some of the two-dimensional images; using at least one computer processor to generate a three-dimensional computer model of the arthroplasty target region from the open-loop contour lines, wherein the three-dimensional computer model is a bone and cartilage model; generating from the three-dimensional computer model surface contour data pertaining to the arthroplasty target area; and using the surface contour data at a manufacturing machine to manufacture the arthroplasty jig. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the bone and cartilage model represents a degenerated state of the joint. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the three-dimensional computer model is a three-dimensional surface model. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the two-dimensional images are MRI images. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein the two-dimensional images are CT images. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein the joint is at least one of a knee, elbow, wrist, ankle, shoulder, hip or vertebrae interface. 26. The method of claim 20, further comprising: comparing dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone to candidate jig blanks; selecting from the candidate jig blanks a jig blank with the smallest dimensions that are able to accommodate the dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone; and providing the selected jig blank to the manufacturing machine. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: mathematically modifying the dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone and using the mathematically modified dimensions in determining which candidate jig blank to select. 28. The method of claim 27, where the dimensions of the at least a portion of the bone are obtained from at least one of the two-dimensional images or the three-dimensional images. 29. The method of claim 20, wherein the open-loop contour lines extend immediately adjacent cortical bone and cartilage of the arthroplasty target region. 