A method and system for performing invasive procedures includes a surgical robot which is controlled by a guidance system that uses time of flight calculations from RF transmitters embedded in the robot, surgical instrument, and patient anatomy. Sensors around the room detect RF transmissions emitted by the RF transmitters and drive the robot according to a preprogrammed trajectory entered into the guidance system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system performing an invasive medical procedure using an instrument, comprising: a robot having an effectuator element, the effectuator element forming or being configured to securely hold the instrument that is adapted to be positioned at a desired position within or outside a patient's body; two or more RF effectuator transmitters affixed to the effectuator element at desired locations thereof; a plurality of RF receivers that receive a signal from the two or more RF effectuator transmitters; an effectuator active marker affixed to the effectuator element; a calibration frame adapted to be mounted to the patient's skin, the calibration frame comprising a plurality of frame markers, the plurality of frame markers comprising at least one radio opaque frame marker located within a computed tomography scan region of the desired position and at least one active frame marker located outside the computed tomography scan region of the desired position; a motor assembly that is mounted on the robot, and that is adapted to move the effectuator element in each one of the x, y and z directions independently of movement in the others of the x, y and z directions, the x, y and z directions being perpendicular to each other; and a control unit operatively coupled to the motor assembly, the control unit receives a desired point of insertion into the patient and trajectory of the instrument to an anatomical target within the patient, a position of at least one radio opaque frame marker relative to the desired trajectory, a position of the at least one radio opaque frame marker relative to the at least one active frame marker, a position of the at least one active frame marker relative to the effectuator active marker, the control unit supplying signals to the motor assembly to cause the motor assembly to selectively move the effectuator element along the x, y and z directions, the control unit configured (i) to calculate the position of the two or more RF effectuator transmitters relative to the anatomical target by analysis of radio frequency signals emitted by the two or more RF effectuator transmitters based upon the received relative positions of the respective radio opaque and active frame markers, (ii) to show an actual position and actual trajectory of the instrument and the desired trajectory superimposed over an anatomical image of the patient's body shown on a display, (iii) to control actuation of the motor assembly to move along the desired trajectory from the desired point of insertion to the desired position within or outside a patient's body based on the radio frequency signals and received relative positions of the radio opaque and active frame markers, and (iv) to selectively energize the two or more RF effectuator transmitters to ablate tissue and cause at least a portion of the effectuator element to move in the desired trajectory. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element comprises a tube having a pitch axis, a roll axis and a tube axis defining an axis of rotation of the tube. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element comprises a needle. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element includes a beveled leading edge, wherein at least one of the RF transmitters of the two or more RF transmitters affixed to the effectuator element is positioned on a distal end of the effectuator element, RF energy emitted therefrom produces a force that balances the mechanical displacement force created by the beveled edge of the effectuator element. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the effectuator element includes a non-beveled leading edge that can ablate a pathway through tissue to reach the target position. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of RF receivers comprises three or more RF receivers. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to receive information from the plurality of RF receivers in an iterative fashion. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to receive information from the plurality of RF receivers in a dynamic fashion. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to allow a user to pick a desired location within a human body and to dynamically provide information that allows the motor assembly to move the effectuator element to the desired location. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit comprises a computer. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein a leading edge of the effectuator element is configured to have an RF transmitter affixed thereto. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is configured to cause the RF transmitter to emit RF signals at desired times. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the control unit is configured to cause the RF transmitter to emit RF signals at desired frequencies. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are configured to generate an ablation field to cause at least a portion of the effectuator element to move by selectively reducing resistance to penetration in any direction. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the two or more RF transmitters of the effectuator element comprises at least three RF transmitters affixed to the effector element at desired locations thereof, the controller configured to selectively energize the three RF transmitters being selectively energizable to ablate tissue and cause at least a portion of the effectuator element to move in the desired trajectory. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are configured to generate an ablation field to cause at least a portion of the effectuator element to move by selectively reducing resistance to penetration in any direction. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are adapted to have three RF transmitters evenly radially distributed around the effectuator element. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element are affixed to a distal end of the effectuator element. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein at least one of the at least three RF transmitters attached to the effectuator element is located on a leading edge of the effectuator element. 