An arm of a coating robot is used to prevent external leakage of a high voltage. A tank is installed on a robotic arm and contains water as an actuating liquid. The water is supplied to a paint cartridge by a pump controlled by a controller. The water sent from the pump under pressure is supplied to the paint cartridge by a conduit tube. A high voltage generator and a bleeder resistor are combined with the tank such that a high voltage generated by the high voltage generator is supplied to the electrostatic paint applicator via the water. For replenishment of water to the tank is attained by relatively connecting a nozzle in communication with a water source to a main pipe. While the high voltage generator generates a high voltage, the nozzle and the main pipe are kept disconnected to maintain electrical insulation between the nozzle and the main pipe.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coating robot including an electrostatic paint applicator attached to a robotic arm thereof and configured to supply the electrostatic paint applicator with paint from a paint bag accommodated in a paint cartridge detachably attached to a rear end of the electrostatic paint applicator by squeezing the paint bag in the paint cartridge with a controlled amount of actuating liquid supplied into the paint cartridge, comprising: a tank fixed on the robotic arm and containing the actuating liquid; an actuating liquid supply path for supplying the actuating liquid from the tank to the paint cartridge; and a pump interposed in the actuating liquid supply path to supply the actuating liquid from the tank to the paint cartridge under pressure. 2. The coating robot according to claim 1 wherein said pump is located inside the robotic arm. 3. The coating robot according to claim 2 wherein said tank includes a bag inside to contain the actuating liquid in the bag. 4. The coating robot according to claim 3 further comprising a connection means provided in an actuating liquid refill station and configured for relative moment to and away from the actuating liquid supply path, wherein, when the connection means approaches and gets into connection with the actuating liquid supply path, the bag in the tank is refilled with the actuating liquid supplied from an actuating liquid source through the actuating liquid supply path. 5. The coating robot according to claim 4 wherein said connection means provided in the actuating liquid refill station is set stationary in said station, wherein a part of the actuating liquid supply path in the robotic arm is movable in the lengthwise direction of the robotic arm, and wherein, when the part of the actuating liquid supply path is moved by a drive means, the actuating liquid supply path is connected to or disconnected from the connection means in the actuating liquid refill station. 6. The coating robot according to claim 5 further comprising an actuating-purpose passageway for supplying the actuating liquid from the tank to the paint cartridge and a cleaning-purpose passageway for cleaning the electrostatic paint applicator with the actuating liquid from the tank both provided in a lower end portion of the paint cartridge such that the actuating-purpose passageway and the cleaning-purpose passageway are selectively set in communication with the tank. 7. The coating robot according to claim 6 further comprising a paint feed tube provided at a lower end of the paint cartridge and communicating with the paint bag via a check valve, wherein said electrostatic paint applicator has a pore opening at a rear end thereof to receive said paint feed tube therein. 8. The coating robot according to claim 1 wherein said tank is fixed stationary on the robotic arm under an electrically insulated condition. 9. The coating robot according to claim 1 wherein the actuating liquid is an electrically insulating liquid. 10. The coating robot according to claim 1 wherein the actuating liquid is water. 11. The coating robot according to claim 10 wherein the high voltage is applied to the electrostatic paint applicator via the water as the actuating liquid. 