In one aspect, the invention is directed to polypeptides having an amylase activity, polynucleotides encoding the polypeptides, and methods for making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the polypeptides of the invention can be used as amylases, for example, alpha amylases, to catalyze the hydrolysis of starch into sugars. In one aspect, the invention provides delayed release compositions comprising an desired ingredient coated by a latex polymer coating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant nucleic acid comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a polypeptide having at least 90% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:419, wherein the polypeptide has alpha-amylase activity. 2. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant nucleic acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO:418 wherein the nucleic acid sequence encodes at least one polypeptide having an alpha-amylase activity. 3. An expression cassette, a vector, or a cloning vehicle comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1. 4. The cloning vehicle of claim 3, wherein the cloning vehicle comprises a viral vector, a plasmid, a phage, a phagemid, a cosmid, a losmid, a bacteriophage or an artificial chromosome. 5. An isolated host cell comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1, or the expression cassette, vector, or cloning vehicle of claim 3 or claim 4. 6. The isolated host cell of claim 5, wherein the cell is a bacterial cell, a fungal cell, or a yeast cell. 7. A method of producing a recombinant polypeptide comprising the steps of: (a) providing a nucleic acid, wherein the nucleic acid comprises a sequence as set forth in claim 1, or claim 2; and (b) expressing the nucleic acid of step (a) under conditions that allow expression of the polypeptide, thereby producing a recombinant polypeptide. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising transforming a host cell with the nucleic acid of step (a) followed by expressing the nucleic acid of step (a), thereby producing a recombinant polypeptide in a transformed cell. 9. A method of generating a variant of a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide with an amylase activity comprising the steps of: (a) providing a template nucleic acid comprising a sequence as set forth in claim 1, or claim 4; and (b) modifying, deleting or adding one or more nucleotides in the template sequence, or a combination thereof, to generate a variant of the template nucleic acid. 10. A method for modifying codons in a nucleic acid encoding an amylase polypeptide, the method comprising the following steps: (a) providing a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide with an amylase activity comprising a sequence as set forth in claim 1, or claim 4; and (b) identifying a codon in the nucleic acid of step (a) and replacing it with a different codon encoding the same amino acid as the replaced codon, thereby modifying codons in a nucleic acid encoding an amylase. 