Disclosed herein are devices, systems and methods for the automated design and manufacture of patient-specific/patient-matched orthopedic implants. While the embodiments described herein specifically pertain to unicompartmental resurfacing implants for the knee, the principles described are applicable to other types of knee implants (including, without limitation, other resurfacing implants and joint replacement implants) as well as implants for other joints and other patient-specific orthopedic applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of designing a patient-specific implant using a computer system, comprising: obtaining image data of a knee joint of a patient including a femoral condyle; creating a virtual model of at least a portion of the patient's femoral condyle from the image data; and processing the virtual model to design a patient-specific implant based at least in part on the virtual model, wherein the patient-specific implant includes one or more planar bone-facing portions, and wherein at least a portion of a sagittal curvature of the femoral condyle portion of the implant is adapted based on the sagittal curvature of the patient's femoral condyle. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the virtual model is automated without human intervention. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising checking the design to determine whether the parameters of the design meet predetermined specifications. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the virtual model is processed predominantly without human intervention. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processes further comprises identifying anatomic landmarks to generate an implant design. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein identifying anatomic landmarks includes locating maxima or minima on the curvature of a surface portion of the virtual model. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processing further comprises: identifying anatomic landmarks; and merging information regarding the anatomic landmarks with a generic model to create an implant design. 8. The method of claim 4, further comprising automatically determining an optimal viewpoint to allow a user to perform a design step. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising combining a virtual template with the virtual model to design the patient-specific implant. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the template may be adjusted by a user. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the template is three dimensional. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more planar bone-facing portions are configured to accommodate one or more corresponding bone cuts of the femoral condyle. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the position of each bone cut is automatically determined. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the position of each bone cut is automatically determined using anatomical landmarks. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer system is configured to automatically designs attachment features. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the attachment features are at least one of pegs and anchors. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the coronal curvature of the femoral condyle portion of the patient-specific implant is constant. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the coronal curvature of the femoral condyle portion of the patient-specific implant is derived from the patient's image data. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the position of at least one bone cut is automatically determined. 20. The method of claim 12, wherein the position of at least one bone cut is automatically determined using anatomical landmarks. 