Methods and apparatus for configuring process, environmental, industrial and other control systems generate and/or utilize models representing configurations of control systems and/or the systems controlled by them. Records of changes to the models or the configurations represented by them are maintained, thereby, for example, providing bases for determining current states, prior states and histories of changes. Objects in the model have characteristics, such as an object type characteristic and an area characteristic. Users can have corresponding permissions. A security mechanism apparatus controls access by users to the objects. Composite objects are defined by definition objects and are displayed in encapsulated or expanded formats. Objects can include an edit control type identifier that determines how they are presented for editing. Functionality responds to user commands by transferring characteristics of a first object depicted by the graphical user interface to a second object. Configuration-time formulas contained objects are evaluated to constants prior to downloading to the control system.
Claims What we claim is: 1. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising: a first model representing a first configuration of at least one of the control system and a system controlled thereby, and a second model representing a second configuration of at least one of the same control system and the same system controlled thereby, wherein the second model is a copy of the first model that has been modified independently of the first model, wherein the second model is further modified on a computer separate from a computer on which the first model resides, comprising a record of modifications to the second model, wherein the record can be played against the first model in connection with merging the first and second models, a third model representing a third configuration of at least one of the same control system and the same system controlled thereby, the third model representing a merge of the first and second models. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first and second models comprise respective pluralities of objects representing entities in any of the control system and the system controlled thereby, and at least selected ones of the objects are associated with unique identifiers. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the identifiers are globally unique identifiers. 