A bistable electroactive polymer transducer is provided for electrically actuated deformation of rigid electroactive polymer members. The polymers have glass transition temperatures (Tg) above ambient conditions and turn into rubbery elastomers above Tg and have high dielectric breakdown strength in the rubbery state. They can be electrically deformed to various rigid shapes with maximum strain greater than 100% and as high as 400%. The actuation is made bistable by cooling below Tg to preserve the deformation. The dielectric actuation mechanism includes a pair of compliant electrodes in contact with a dielectric elastomer which deforms when a voltage bias is applied between the pair of electrodes. In some of the configurations, the dielectric elastomer is also a shape memory polymer. The deformations of such bistable electroactive polymers can be repeated rapidly for numerous cycles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A bistable transducer, comprising: a plurality of polymer members; and at least two electrodes joined to said polymer members configured to produce an electric field; wherein said polymer softens with an increase in temperature and deforms in response to a change in an applied electric field between the electrodes; and wherein said polymer member retains a deformed shape with a reduction in temperature below a transition temperature. 2. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer members have an elastic modulus greater than greater than 100 MPa at ambient temperature that is reduced to less than 50 MPa when the temperature is raised above a transition temperature. 3. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer members have an elastic modulus greater than greater than 500 MPa at ambient temperature that is reduced to less than 100 MPa when the temperature is raised above a transition temperature. 4. A transducer as recited in claim 3, wherein said transition temperature of said polymer is above approximately 50.degree. C. 5. A transducer as recited in claim 1, further comprising a heating element operably coupled to said polymer members and configured to heat said polymer members to a temperature above a transition temperature for said polymer. 6. A transducer as recited in claim 5, wherein said heating element comprises: a source of electromagnetic radiation; and a radiation absorber associated with said polymer; wherein said radiation is absorbed by the absorber raising the temperature of said polymer to above a transition temperature. 7. A transducer as recited in claim 5, wherein said radiation absorber is selected from the group of absorbers consisting essentially of an infrared radiation absorbing film, a colorant in the polymer member, a light absorbing film and a radiation absorbing electrode. 8. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is a thermoplastic polymer. 9. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is poly(tert-butyl acrylate). 10. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer is a crosslinked polymer. 11. A transducer as recited in claim 10, wherein said crosslinked polymer is a polymer containing repeating units of tert-butyl acrylate. 12. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer comprises a polymer blend containing at least a crosslinked polymer. 13. A transducer as recited in claim 12, wherein said polymer comprises a polymer blend containing at least a first crosslinked polymer and a second crosslinked polymer that interpenetrates into the first crosslinked polymer. 14. A transducer as recited in claim 12, wherein said polymer comprises a polymer blend containing at least a crosslinked polymer and a thermoplastic polymer that interpenetrates into the crosslinked polymer. 15. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein said polymer comprises a polymer composite containing at least one additive selected from the group of additives consisting of nanoparticles, nanowires, nanorods, plasticizers, surfactants, light absorbing agent, light absorbing fillers, conductive fillers, microwave absorbing fillers, and magnetic fillers. 16. A transducer as recited in claim 1: wherein at least one electrode portion in contact with a portion of a polymer member is compliant; and wherein the compliant electrode portion deforms with the polymer member and is capable of deformation with a maximum linear strain of at least approximately 10 percent. 17. A transducer as recited in claim 16, wherein the electrode portion is compliant in one direction greater than in a second direction. 18. A transducer as recited in claim 16, wherein said polymer members are substantially translucent and said compliant electrodes vary in opacity with the deformation of the polymer member. 19. A transducer as recited in claim 1, wherein the electrodes are formed from a material selected from the group of materials consisting of a high aspect ratio carbon material, a fine carbon powder, a conductive polymer, a carbon fibril, and a carbon nanotube material. 20. A transducer as recited in claim 16, wherein the compliant portion of said electrode has a thickness less than about 1 micrometers. 21. A transducer as recited in claim 16, wherein the compliant portion of said electrode has a thickness less than about 100 nanometers. 22. A transducer as recited in claim 1: wherein at least one electrode portion in contact with a portion of a polymer member is compliant; and wherein the compliant electrode portion deforms with the polymer member and is capable of deformation with a maximum linear strain of at least approximately 50 percent. 23. A transducer as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of rigid elements joined to said polymer elements; wherein the position of said rigid elements is changed with the deformation of said polymer by said electric fields. 24. A transducer as recited in claim 23, wherein at least one of said rigid elements is exposed to an applied strain prior to deformation of said polymer. 25. A transducer as recited in claim 23, wherein said polymer members are exposed to an applied strain prior to deformation of said polymer. 26. A transducer as recited in claim 1, further comprising an optical diffraction grating disposed on said polymer member. 27. A transducer as recited in claim 20, further comprising an optical diffraction grating disposed on said polymer member. 28. A bistable transducer, comprising: a plurality of polymer members; at least two electrodes joined to said polymer members configured to produce an electric field; and means for raising the temperature of said polymer members; wherein said polymer softens with an increase in temperature and deforms in response to a change in an applied electric field between the electrodes; and wherein said polymer member retains a deformed shape with a reduction in temperature below a transition temperature. 29. A transducer as recited in claim 28, wherein said means for raising the temperature of said polymer is a heating element selected from the group heating elements consisting essentially of patterned laser light, a resistance heating element, a radiation source with a radiation absorbing film, and a light source with a polymer colorant. 30. A transducer as recited in claim 28, further comprising: a plurality of rigid elements joined to said polymer elements; wherein the position of said rigid elements is changed with the deformation of said polymer by said electric fields. 31. A transducer as recited in claim 28, wherein said polymer members and said electrodes are substantially translucent. 32. A bistable transducer, comprising: a plurality of polymer members; at least two electrodes joined to said polymer members configured to produce an electric field; means for raising the temperature of said polymer members; and means for pre-straining said polymer members; wherein said polymer softens with an increase in temperature and deforms in response to a change in an applied electric field between the electrodes; and wherein said polymer member retains a deformed shape with a reduction in temperature below a transition temperature. 33. A transducer as recited in claim 32, wherein said means for raising the temperature of said polymer is a heating element selected from the group heating elements consisting essentially of patterned laser light, a resistance heating element, a radiation source with a radiation absorbing film, and a light source with a polymer colorant. 34. A transducer as recited in claim 32, wherein said means for pre-straining said polymer is selected from the group consisting essentially of a spring in compression, a pneumatic pressure, a hydraulic pressure, and a foam in compression. 35. A transducer as recited in claim 32, further comprising: a plurality of rigid elements joined to said polymer elements; wherein the position of said rigid elements is changed with the deformation of said polymer by said electric fields. 