Designs of single-end-operative reconfigurable genderless connectors that include a base, a plurality of movable jaws that are formed on the base and can engage to the jaws of another connector, and an actuator that is mounted on the base and can engage and move the jaws of the reconfigurable connector to connect the reconfigurable connector with another connector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reconfigurable connector, comprising: a base; a plurality of jaws disposed on the base and movable along a plurality of predetermined paths on the base respectively, wherein the plurality of jaws are capable of engaging or disengaging a plurality of jaws of another identical connector when the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector move in either direction along the plurality of predetermined paths respectively; and an actuator attached to the base and configured to engage and move the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector in synchronization to connect or disconnect the reconfigurable connector with the another identical connector. 2. The reconfigurable connector of claim 1, wherein the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector comprise four jaws that are movably engaged in four linear sliding rails respectively so that each jaw can move along its respective sliding rail, wherein the four sliding rails are formed in a cross configuration to meet at a center location of the base. 3. The reconfigurable connector of claim 2, wherein the reconfigurable connector engages to the another identical connector when the four jaws move towards the center location. 4. The reconfigurable connector of claim 3, wherein the reconfigurable connector engages to the another identical connector when the fours four jaws move about halfway of the sliding rails. 5. The reconfigurable connector of claim 2, wherein the reconfigurable connector engages to the another identical connector when the four jaws move away from the center location. 6. The reconfigurable connector of claim 5, wherein the reconfigurable connector engages to the another identical connector when the four jaws move about halfway of the sliding rails. 7. The reconfigurable connector of claim 2, wherein the actuator comprises a motorized circular gear, the motorized circular gear comprising concentric gear tracks that are engaged to the four jaws. 8. The reconfigurable connector of claim 1, further comprising a device that communicates with the another identical connector to guide docking alignment between the reconfigurable connector and the another identical connector. 9. The reconfigurable connector of claim 8, wherein the device comprises a sensor configured to sense the position of the jaws of the another identical connector and the engagement between the jaws of the reconfigurable connector and the jaws of the another identical connector. 10. The reconfigurable connector of claim 1, wherein the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector are shaped and arranged to automatically align the reconfigurable connector with the another identical connector during engagement in longitude, latitude, separation, pitch, yaw or roll dimension. 11. A reconfigurable connector, comprising: a base; a plurality of movable jaws disposed on the base and configured to engage or disengage a plurality of jaws of another connector to establish or break a connection between the reconfigurable connector and the another connector; and an actuator attached to the base and configured to engage and drive the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector to connect or disconnect the reconfigurable connector with the another connector; wherein the reconfigurable connector is capable of establishing or breaking the connection regardless of whether the another connector is operational or whether the another connector has a female or male connector configuration. 12. The connector as in claim 11, wherein the base comprises linear rail tracks to which the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector are moveably engaged and the linear rail tracks are in a cross configuration to meet at a center location of the base, and the actuator comprises a motorized circular gear comprising concentric gear tracks that are engaged to the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector to drive the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector to move along the linear rail tracks. 13. A robotic system, comprising: a plurality of robotic modules; and a plurality of reconfigurable connectors, each reconfigurable connector comprising: a base structured to comprise a plurality of predetermined paths; a plurality of jaws disposed on the base and movable along the plurality of predetermined paths on the base respectively, wherein the plurality of jaws are capable of engaging or disengaging a plurality of jaws of another identical connector when the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector move in either direction along the plurality of predetermined paths respectively; and an actuator attached to the base and configured to engage and move the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector in synchronization to connect or disconnect the reconfigurable connector with the another identical connector; wherein at least two of the plurality of robotic modules are connected by two of the plurality of reconfigurable connectors. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the predetermined paths are linear rail tracks to which the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector are moveably engaged and the linear rail tracks are in a cross configuration to meet at a center location of the base. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the actuator comprises a motorized circular gear, the motorized circular gear comprising concentric gear tracks that are engaged to the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector. 16. A device comprising: a plurality of reconfigurable connectors, each reconfigurable connector comprising: a base structured to comprise a plurality of predetermined paths; a plurality of jaws disposed on the base and movable along the plurality of predetermined paths on the base respectively, wherein the plurality of jaws are capable of engaging or disengaging a plurality of jaws of another identical connector when the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector move in either direction along the plurality of predetermined paths respectively; and an actuator attached to the base and configured to engage and move the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector in synchronization to connect or disconnect the reconfigurable connector with the another identical connector; wherein the reconfigurable connectors are engaged to one another to form a chain. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein the predetermined paths are linear rail tracks to which the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector are moveably engaged and the linear rail tracks are in a cross configuration to meet at a center location of the base. 18. The device of claim 16, wherein the actuator comprises a motorized circular gear, the motorized circular gear comprising concentric gear tracks that are engaged to the plurality of jaws of the reconfigurable connector. 