A device and method to provide a simplified wash process and controlled disintegration of a soft substance, such as a gel, are disclosed. In use, a block of, e.g., gel matrix is placed in the device and washed with a series of appropriate solutions to remove interfering contaminants. The washing liquid is removed through a deformable narrow opening in the bottom of the device, and, subsequently, the gel block is extruded through the deformable narrow opening, by a physical force, such as centrifugal force, a vacuum or positive pressure from a gas or liquid, etc., resulting in fragmentation of the gel block into a series of particles of similar size. The fragmentation of the gel results from shear forces exerted onto the gel block traveling through the deformable narrow opening in the device. The rate of such fragmentation and resulting fragment size can be controlled by extruding the gel block using a predefined level of force as well as by controlling the dimensions and shape of the narrow opening (s) in the device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for washing and/or shredding a material under an applied external force, said device comprising: a substantially cylindrical device body extending from an upper end to a lower end, the cylindrical portions of said device body defining a longitudinal axis from the upper end to the lower end, the device body having an inner surface and an outer surface; a fixed opening at the upper end of the device body; a mounting fitting on the cylindrical portion of said device body adjacent the upper end for mounting the device body coaxially within a centrifuge tube; and a deformable opening area in said device body, wherein said deformable opening area is formed of a deformable material and is disposed at the lower end of said device body, wherein the deformable opening area has a thickness extending between an inner surface and an outer surface of said device body, the inner surface of the deformable opening area being contiguous with the inner surface of the device body, and the outer surface of the deformable opening area being contiguous with the outer surface of the device body, wherein said deformable opening area has an opening deformable at least sufficiently for the passage of liquid under an externally applied force greater than ambient pressure, said force comprising centrifugal force or positive or negative pressure from a gas or liquid, and wherein said deformable opening area opening remains closed to the passage of liquid under ambient pressure. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said opening in said deformable opening area comprises three or more slots formed therein, said slots meeting at and extending radially from a common point, and wherein: each slot comprises two walls each extending through the thickness of the deformable opening area; the walls of each slot are disposed at an angle to each other such that the walls are closest to each other at the inner surface of the deformable opening area and are farthest from each other at the outer surface of the deformable opening area; the walls of each slot intersect the inner surface of the deformable opening area to form a cutting edge; and the walls of each slot are deformable to widen at the inner surface of the deformable opening area. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the opening in said deformable opening area comprises four slots. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the opening in said deformable opening area comprises a spiral slot formed therein, said spiral decreasing from the outer region of said deformable opening area to the center region of said deformable opening area. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said deformable opening area comprises an elastomeric material. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said deformable opening area comprises a polymer. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein said deformable opening area comprises a thermoplastic polymer. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the deformable opening area comprises polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, polyethylene, polycarbonate, polysulphone or ABS. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein said mounting fitting comprises an annular shoulder at the upper end of said device body extending radially outwardly with respect to the longitudinal axis of said device body. 10. A system for washing and/or shredding a material under an applied external force, said system comprising: a device comprising a substantially cylindrical device body extending from an upper end to a lower end, the cylindrical portions of said device body defining a longitudinal axis from the upper end to the lower end, the device body having an inner surface and an outer surface; a fixed opening at the upper end of the device body; a mounting fitting on the cylindrical portion of said device body adjacent the upper end for mounting the device body coaxially within a centrifuge tube; and a deformable opening area in said device body, wherein said deformable opening area is formed of a deformable material and is disposed at the lower end of said device body, wherein the deformable opening area has a thickness extending between an inner surface and an outer surface of said device body, the inner surface of the deformable opening area being contiguous with the inner surface of the device body, and the outer surface of the deformable opening area being contiguous with the outer surface of the device body, wherein said deformable opening area has an opening deformable at least sufficiently for the passage of liquid under an externally applied force greater than ambient pressure, said force comprising centrifugal force or positive or negative pressure from a gas or liquid, and wherein said deformable opening area opening remains closed to the passage of liquid under ambient pressure; and a collection device, wherein said collection device has a substantially cylindrical body having an open top and a closed bottom and wherein said device is sized to fit snugly into said collection device, through the open top thereof. 11. The system of claim 10, comprising two or more of said device. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said devices are nested in series. 13. The system of claim 11 comprising two or more of said collection device wherein the collection devices are configured in parallel in a multi-well format. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said devices are configured in parallel in a multi-well format in alignment with said collection devices. 15. A method for washing and/or shredding a material under an applied external force, said method comprising the steps of: providing a device comprising a substantially cylindrical device body extending from an upper end to a lower end, the cylindrical portions of said device body defining a longitudinal axis from the upper end to the lower end, the device body having an inner surface and an outer surface; a fixed opening at the upper end of the device body; a mounting fitting on the cylindrical portion of said device body adjacent the upper end for mounting the device body coaxially within a centrifuge tube; and a deformable opening area in said device body, wherein said deformable opening area is formed of a deformable material and is disposed at the lower end of said device body, wherein the deformable opening area has a thickness extending between an inner surface and an outer surface of said device body, the inner surface of the deformable opening area being contiguous with the inner surface of the device body, and the outer surface of the deformable opening area being contiguous with the outer surface of the device body, wherein said deformable opening area has an opening deformable at least sufficiently for the passage of liquid under an externally applied force greater than ambient pressure, said force comprising centrifugal force or positive or negative pressure from a gas or liquid, and wherein said deformable opening area opening remains closed to the passage of liquid under ambient pressure; inserting into said body of said device a portion of gel from which a sample is to be recovered; washing said gel portion with a washing liquid; removing said washing liquid using a first externally applied force greater than ambient pressure, said first force comprising centrifugal force or positive or negative pressure from a gas or liquid; and shredding said gel using a second externally applied force greater than ambient pressure, said second force comprising centrifugal force or positive or negative pressure from a gas or liquid, wherein said second force is greater than said first force. 