A storage library is described including a first tape drive that is identified as a target tape drive to a host via a first address and a second tape drive that is masked from being identified by the host. The storage library further includes a controller that is linked with a switch system that shifts the first address to the second tape drive, from the first tape drive, such that after the shift, the second drive is identified as the target drive to the host and the first tape drive is masked from being identified by the host.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising the steps for: receiving an unload instruction from a client to move a first tape cartridge from a first tape drive to a shelf system; responding to said client that said unload instruction is accomplished before actually carrying out said unload instruction; receiving a load instruction from said client to load a second tape cartridge in said first tape drive; in response to said load instruction, moving said second tape cartridge from said shelf system to a second tape drive via a robotic transfer device; loading said second tape cartridge in said second tape drive to form a cooperating relationship; moving said first tape cartridge from said first tape drive to said shelf system after loading said second tape cartridge; receiving a second unload instruction from said client to move said second tape cartridge from said first tape drive to said shelf system; responding to said client that said second unload instruction is accomplished before actually carrying out said second unload instruction; receiving a third load instruction from said client to load a third tape cartridge in said first tape drive; moving said third tape cartridge from said shelf system to said first tape drive; loading said third tape cartridge in said first tape drive to form a cooperating relationship; and moving said second tape cartridge from said second tape drive to said shelf system after loading said third tape cartridge in said first tape drive. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising indicating to said client that said second tape drive is said first tape drive. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said first tape drive and the second tape drive are in a common drive sled. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said first tape drive and second tape drive are half-height tape drives. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said first tape drive and said second tape drive are in different libraries. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising postponing a rewind instruction to rewind said first tape cartridge until after loading said second tape cartridge, said rewind instruction is associated with said unload instruction. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: performing an operation associated with said second tape drive after said responding step and prior to said receiving step. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said operation is cleaning said second tape drive. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said operation is replacing said second tape drive with a different tape drive. 10. A method comprising the steps for: responding to a client that a first instruction to move a first tape cartridge from a first tape drive to a shelf system is accomplished but instead said first instruction is queued; carrying out said first instruction after carrying out a second instruction to load a second tape cartridge in a second tape drive wherein said second tape drive appears to said client as being said first tape drive; receiving a third instruction from said client to move said second tape cartridge from said first tape drive to said shelf system; responding to said client that said third instruction is accomplished before actually carrying out said third instruction; receiving a fourth instruction from said client to load a third tape cartridge in said first tape drive; moving said third tape cartridge from said shelf system to said first tape drive; loading said third tape cartridge in said first tape drive to form a cooperating relationship; and moving said second tape cartridge from said second tape drive to said shelf system after loading said third tape cartridge in said first tape drive. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein both said first tape drive and said second tape drive are identified by said client as only said first tape drive. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said first tape drive and said second tape drive share a common external address. 13. A method for moving data cartridges, the method comprising steps for: providing a first tape drive and a second tape drive, a first tape cartridge and a second tape cartridge, and a robotic transfer device; receiving an instruction from a client to load said first tape cartridge in a target tape drive to perform storage operations; moving said first tape cartridge from a shelf system to said first tape drive via said robotic transfer device wherein said first tape drive is designated said target tape drive; loading said first tape cartridge in said first tape drive in a first cooperating relationship; receiving an unload instruction from said client to unload and move said first tape cartridge from said target tape drive to said shelf system; responding to said client that said unload instruction is accomplished before actually carrying out said unload instruction; receiving a second instruction from said client to load said second tape cartridge in said target tape drive to perform second storage operations after said responding step; in response to said second instruction, moving said second tape cartridge from said shelf system to said second tape drive via said robotic transfer device; loading said second tape cartridge in said second tape drive to form a second cooperating relationship; unloading said first tape cartridge from said first tape drive after loading said second tape cartridge; and moving said first tape cartridge from said first tape drive to said shelf system after unloading said first tape cartridge. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step for performing storage operations on said first tape cartridge when in said first cooperating relationship. 15. The method of claim 13 is performed in a data storage library. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising: receiving a second unload instruction from said client to unload and move said second tape cartridge from said target tape drive to said shelf system; responding to said client that said second unload instruction is accomplished before actually carrying out said second unload instruction; receiving a third instruction from said client to load a third tape cartridge in said target tape drive; moving said third tape cartridge from said shelf system to said first tape drive via said robotic transfer device; loading said third tape cartridge in said first tape drive to form a cooperating relationship; unloading said second tape cartridge from said second tape drive after loading said third tape cartridge; and moving said second tape cartridge from said second tape drive to said shelf system after said unloading said second tape cartridge. 17. The method of claim 13 wherein said first tape drive and the second tape drive are in a common drive sled. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said first tape drive and second tape drive are half-height tape drives. 19. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step for receiving a first rewinding instruction from said client to rewind said first tape cartridge prior to initiating said unload instruction; postponing said first rewind instruction until after loading said second tape cartridge in said second tape drive. 