In an automated data storage library, selective encryption for data stored or to be stored on removable media is provided. One or more encryption policies are established, each policy including a level of encryption one or more encryption keys and the identity of one or more data cartridges. The encryption policies are stored in a policy table and the encryption keys are stored in a secure key server. A host requests access to a specified data cartridge and the cartridge is transported from a storage shelf in the library to a storage drive. Based on the identity of the specified cartridge the corresponding encryption policy is selected from the table and the appropriate encryption key is obtained from the key server. The storage drive encrypts data in accordance with the key and stores the data on the media within the specified data cartridge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for encrypting data on a removable media data cartridge in a data storage library, comprising: establishing at least one cartridge encryption policy, each encryption policy including a level of encryption, an identifier of at least one data cartridge to be associated with the encryption policy, and an identification of an encryption key to be used to encrypt data written to media in the at least one data cartridge; storing the at least one encryption policy in an encryption policy table; storing the encryption key in one of a key server and a key store coupled to the key server; receiving a request from a host to access a specified data cartridge stored in a storage cell in the library; selecting and transporting the specified data cartridge from the storage cell to a storage drive; receiving a request from the storage drive for the encryption key in response to the storage drive matching the specified data cartridge with the encryption policy associated with the specified data cartridge; accessing the encryption policy table to select the encryption policy associated with the specified data cartridge; in response to the selected encryption policy, transmitting the encryption key for the specified data cartridge from the key server to the storage drive; and encrypting data in the storage drive in accordance with the obtained encryption key and writing the encrypted data on media in the specified data cartridge. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to accessing the encryption policy table for the specified data cartridge, reading a cartridge identifier from the specified data cartridge to confirm the identity of the specified data cartridge. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein reading the cartridge identifier comprises reading one or more identifiers selected from the group comprising a bar code label affixed to the specified data cartridge, a non-bar code machine readable label affixed to the specified data cartridge, a value stored on media within the specified data cartridge, a value stored within a cartridge memory of the specified data cartridge, and an RFID tag affixed to the specified data cartridge. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing the encryption policy table in the specified data cartridge wherein selecting an encryption policy for the specified data cartridge comprises reading the policy from the data cartridge. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein reading the policy comprises reading the policy from a selected one of the group comprising a cartridge label, a cartridge memory, a cartridge RFID tag, and a cartridge media. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing the encryption policy table in the storage drive, wherein accessing the encryption policy for the specified data cartridge is performed by the storage drive. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein obtaining the selected encryption key comprises transmitting a request for the selected encryption key from the storage drive to the key server. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising transmitting the request through a library controller as a proxy for the key server. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising transmitting the request through a host computer as a proxy for the key server. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising transmitting the selected encryption key to the storage drive. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing the encryption policy table in a library controller, wherein accessing the encryption policy for the specified data cartridge is performed by the library controller. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein obtaining the selected encryption key comprises transmitting a request for the selected encryption key from the library controller to a key server. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising transmitting the selected encryption key from the key server to the storage drive. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier of at least one data cartridge to be associated with the encryption policy comprises a plurality of individual cartridge identifiers. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier of at least one data cartridge to be associated with the encryption policy comprises a range of cartridge identifiers. 16. The method of claim 4, wherein storing the encryption policy table in the cartridge comprises storing the encryption policy table in a selected one of the group comprising a cartridge label, a cartridge memory, a cartridge RFID tag and a cartridge media of the specified data cartridge. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising establishing a default policy for one or more storage drives in the library. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising establishing a default policy for all storage drives in the library. 19. A data storage system, comprising: a plurality of storage shelves for storing data cartridges within a library housing unit, a data storage cartridge including data storage medium; a data storage drive operable to write data to the data storage medium; a library controller coupled to receive data access requests from a host computer; a robot accessor for transporting data storage cartridges between the storage shelves and the data storage drive under the direction of the library controller; a key server, coupled to the library controller, on which one or more encryption keys are stored; an encryption policy table in which are stored one or more encryption policies, each encryption policy including an identifier of one or more data cartridges associated with the encryption policy, and an identification of an encryption key to be used to encrypt data written to media in the at least one data cartridge; and a library-drive interface through which the data storage drive transmits a request for an encryption key for a specified data cartridge to the library controller in response to the storage drive matching the specified data cartridge with a corresponding encryption policy and through which the library controller, after obtaining the requested encryption key from the key server, transmits the requested encryption key to the data storage drive, after which the storage drive encrypts data in accordance with the requested encryption key and writes the encrypted data on the media in the specified data cartridge. 20. The data storage system of claim 19, wherein: the request for the encryption key is addressed to the key server; and the library controller operable as a proxy for the key server. 21. The data storage system of claim 19, wherein the key server comprises the library controller. 22. The data storage system of claim 19, wherein the key server comprises a dedicated server. 23. The data storage system of claim 19, further comprising a memory device in the library controller in which the encryption policy table is stored. 24. The data storage system of claim 19, wherein the policy table is stored with the data storage cartridge. 25. The data storage system of claim 19, further comprising a memory device in the storage drive in which the encryption policy table is stored. 26. A controller associated with a data storage library, comprising: a user interface through which to receive a user input of one or more encryption policies, including a level of encryption, one or more cartridge identifiers to be associated with each encryption policy, each cartridge identifier representing a data cartridge or a range of data cartridges, and an identification of an encryption key to be used to encrypt data written to media in the at least one data cartridge; an encryption policy table in which the at least one encryption policy is stored; a key server interface coupled to a key server from which encryption keys are obtained; a library-drive interface through which to transmit the encryption policies and associated cartridge identifiers to a storage drive in the library; a host interface through which to receive a request from a host to access a specified data cartridge stored in a storage cell in the library; an accessor interface through which to control a robotic accessor to retrieve and transport the specified data cartridge to a storage drive; the library-drive interface further operable to receive a request from the storage drive for an encryption key in response to the storage drive matching the specified data cartridge with a corresponding encryption policy; the key server interface further operable for obtaining the requested encryption key from the key server; and the library-drive interface further operable to transmit the encryption key to the storage drive, whereupon the storage drive encrypts data and writes the encrypted data to the specified data cartridge. 27. The controller of claim 26, whereby the library controller serves as a proxy for the key server. 28. A computer readable non-transitory medium usable with a programmable computer having computer-readable code embodied therein for encrypting data on removable media in a data storage library, the computer-readable code comprising instructions for: creating an encryption policy table; entering one or more encryption policies into the table, each encryption policy including a level of encryption, an identifier of at least one data cartridge to be associated with the encryption policy, and an identification of an encryption key to be used to encrypt data written to media in the at least one data cartridge; storing the encryption key in one of a key server and a key store coupled to the key server; receiving a request from a host to access a specified data cartridge; selecting and transporting the specified data cartridge from the storage cell to a storage drive; receiving a request from the storage drive for the encryption key in response to the storage drive matching the specified data cartridge with the encryption policy associated with the specified data cartridge; accessing the encryption policy table to select the encryption policy associated with the specified data cartridge; in response to the selected encryption policy, transmitting the encryption key for the specified data cartridge from the key server to the storage drive; and encrypting data in the storage drive in accordance with the obtained encryption key and writing the encrypted data on media in the specified data cartridge. 29. The computer readable medium of claim 28, wherein the computer-readable code further comprises instructions for storing the table with the cartridge. 30. The computer readable medium of claim 29, wherein the instructions for storing the table with the cartridge comprise instructions for storing the table in one of the group comprising a cartridge label, a cartridge memory, a cartridge RFID tag and a cartridge media. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one encryption policy further includes an identifier of at least one authorized storage drive to which the encryption policy is assigned. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one encryption policy further includes an identifier of at least one authorized logical library to which the encryption policy is assigned. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one encryption policy further includes an identifier of at least one authorized user to which the encryption policy is assigned. 34. The data storage system of claim 19, wherein at least one encryption policy further includes an identifier of at least one authorized storage drive to which the encryption policy is assigned. 35. The data storage system of claim 19, wherein at least one encryption policy further includes an identifier of at least one authorized logical library to which the encryption policy is assigned. 36. The data storage system of claim 19, wherein at least one encryption policy further includes an identifier of at least one authorized user to which the encryption policy is assigned. 