The present invention generally relates to a module and process for automatically attaching a junction box to a composite solar cell structure during the fabrication of a completed solar cell device. The electrical connection module further provides a thermode assembly including heating elements for forming a soldered connection between the junction box and the composite solar cell structure and a temperature sensing device in thermal communication with the heating elements for detecting a temperature profile during the connection process. The heating elements and temperature sensing device are linked to a controller configured to monitor and compare the energy input into the heating elements with the temperature near the tip of the heating elements throughout the connection process. The controller is further configured to compare the actual energy versus temperature profile to an expected profile throughout the connection process and verify whether a quality bond is achieved.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A solder bonding method, comprising: contacting an electrically conductive tab with a heating element, wherein the electrically conductive tab is in contact with an electrically conductive lead; applying power to the heating element while monitoring the amount of power applied to the heating element; measuring the temperature of the heating element during the applying power to the heating element; and determining whether an acceptable bond is formed between the conductive tab and the conductive lead by comparing a profile of the monitored amount of power and the measured temperature with a profile of the expected amount of power and the expected temperature. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the temperature comprises continuously measuring the temperature during the applying power to the heating element. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein monitoring the amount of power comprises continuously monitoring the amount of power applied to the heating element. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein each of the profiles includes a heating phase comprising the amount of power required to raise the temperature of the heating element from an initial temperature to a bonding temperature. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein each of the profiles includes a bonding phase comprising the amount of power required to maintain the temperature of the heating element at the bonding temperature for a specified period of time. 6. The method of claim 3, further comprising supplying a flux material between the conductive tab and the heating element. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the measuring the temperature of the heating element comprises monitoring a thermocouple coupled to the heating element near a tip of the heating element. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the conductive tab is coupled to a junction box and the conductive lead is coupled to a thin film solar cell device. 9. A solar cell electrical connection module, comprising: a vision system configured to scan a solar cell device and locate a lead on the solar cell device; a robotic gripper having gripping elements configured to pick up, manipulate, and place a junction box onto the solar cell device such that a tab of the junction box is in contact with the lead using information received from the vision system; a heating assembly comprising a heating element having a thermocouple attached thereto, wherein the heating element is configured to contact the tab; and a controller configured to apply power to the heating element while monitoring the amount of power applied to the heating element, monitor temperature readings from the thermocouple while applying power, and compare the monitored amount of power and temperature readings with expected power and temperature to determine whether an acceptable bond is formed between the tab and lead. 10. The module of claim 9, further comprising a flux dispensing assembly having a nozzle positioned to apply a flux material to the tab on the junction box. 11. The module of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to monitor the amount of power applied to the heating element and temperature readings from the thermocouple during a heating phase during which the heating element is raised from an initial temperature to a bonding temperature and compare the monitored amount of power and time for achieving the bonding temperature with expected values. 12. The module of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to monitor the amount of power applied to the heating element and temperature readings from the thermocouple during a bonding phase during which the heating element is maintained at a bonding temperature for a specified period of time and compare the monitored amount of power for maintaining the bonding temperature to an expected value. 13. A method of attaching a junction box to a solar cell device, comprising: applying an adhesive sealant to a sealing surface of a junction box; picking up the junction box via a robotic gripper; moving a solar cell device in a first direction via a conveyor device; scanning the solar cell device with a vision system to locate exposed leads disposed on the solar cell device; moving the junction box in a second direction via a head assembly and an actuator; positioning the junction box onto the solar cell device such that electrical connection tabs within the junction box are in contact with the exposed electrical leads on the solar cell device using information provided by the vision system; positioning heating elements having temperature sensors coupled thereto in contact with the tabs using information provided by the vision system; applying power to the heating elements while monitoring the amount of power applied to the heating elements; monitoring temperature readings from at least one of the temperature sensors; and determining whether acceptable bonds are formed between the tabs and the leads by comparing a profile of the monitored amount of power and temperature with a profile of the expected amount of power and temperature. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising applying flux to the tabs prior to positioning the junction box onto the solar cell device. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein each of the profiles includes a heating phase comprising the amount of power required to raise the temperature of the heating element from an initial temperature to a bonding temperature. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the profiles includes a bonding phase comprising the amount of power required to maintain the temperature of the heating element at the bonding temperature for a specified period of time. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising positioning a potting material dispensing nozzle in communication with an open region of the junction box using information provided by the vision system and dispensing the potting material to fill the junction box. 