Embodiments of the invention disclose a system and a method for determining a pose of a probe relative to an object by probing the object with the probe, comprising steps of: determining a probability of the pose using Rao-Blackwellized particle filtering, wherein a probability of a location of the pose is represented by a location of each particle, and a probability of an orientation of the pose is represented by a Gaussian distribution over orientation of each particle conditioned on the location of the particle, wherein the determining is performed for each subsequent probing until the probability of the pose concentrates around a particular pose; and estimating the pose of the probe relative to the object based on the particular pose.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for determining a pose of a probe relative to an object based on probing the object with the probe and Rao-Blackwellized particle filtering, wherein the pose includes a location of the pose and an orientation of the pose, wherein each probing determines a point of contact between the probe and the object, such that the pose is estimated at each point of contact, comprising the steps of: representing a probability of the pose between the probe and the object by a set of particles, wherein a probability of the location of the pose is represented by a location of each particle, and a probability of the orientation of the pose is represented by a Gaussian distribution over an orientation of each particle conditioned on the location of the particle; relocating each particle to a next location according to a motion of the probe from the point of contact to a next point of contact, wherein the motion is caused by the probing; determining an importance weight of each particle based on the next location of the particle, the probability of orientation of the particle, and a map model of the object, wherein the importance weight is a probability that the particle represents the pose of the probe relative to the object; updating the probability of orientation of each particle in the set of particles using Kalman filtering conditioned on the next location of each particle; repeating the relocating, the determining, and the updating until particles in the set of particles concentrate around a particular pose; and determining the pose of the probe relative to the object based on the particular pose, wherein the steps of the method are performed by a processor. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the map model based on an object model and an uncertainty model. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining the uncertainty model by assigning an uncertainty function to each feature of the object model, wherein the feature is a face, an edge, or a vertex. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: defining the uncertainty function around each feature of the object model as a Gaussian probability density function of a distance between the point of contact and the feature. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining a probability of the observation of a contact event at time t according to p(z.sub.t|s.sub.t,.theta.)=N(h.sub.k.sub.c(s.sub.t,.theta.);0,.sigma..sub- .k.sub.c.sup.2), wherein p(.) is a probability function, s.sub.t represents the position of the particle, .theta. represents the orientation of the particle, z.sub.t is an observation of a contact between the probe and the object at the time t, h is a distance measure, k.sub.c is an index of a contact feature f.sub.k.sub.c, .sigma..sub.k.sub.c.sup.2 is the variance of the uncertainty function of the contact feature, and N(x; .mu., .sigma..sup.2) represents a probability density function that is a Gaussian distribution over the variable x with mean .mu. and variance .sigma..sup.2. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining the uncertainty function of each feature based on an angle between pairs of neighboring features of the object model. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: resampling, after the updating, the set of particles based on the importance weight of each particle. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: representing all of the particles in the set of particles in a single base coordinate system; defining an object coordinate system for each particle in the set of particles, wherein a rotation between the base coordinate system and the object coordinate system of each particle corresponds to the orientation of the pose of each particle, and a center of the rotation is an initial location of the pose of the particle; expressing the motion of the probe in the base coordinate system; and expressing the map model in the object coordinate system. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the probing is achieved by repositioning the probe by an arm of a robot, and moving the probe in the general direction of the object until detecting a contact between the probe and the object, further comprising: receiving a position of the point of contact from encoders of the arm of the robot. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the repositioning is performed randomly, or based on a predetermined sequence of locations, or based on the locations and the orientations of the particles in the set of particles. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining an effective number of particles in the set of particles; and resampling the set of particles based on the importance weight of each particle, if the effective number is less than a threshold, wherein the threshold is determined based on the number of particles in the set of particles. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the next location of the particles according to S.sub.t.sup.[j].about.p(S.sub.t|S.sub.t-1.sup.[j],u.sub.t), wherein S.sub.t-1.sup.[j] is the location of the particle j at time t-1, S.sub.t.sup.[j] is the next location of particle j, and u.sub.t represents the motion of the probe from the point of contact of the probing at time t-1 to the point of contact of the probing at time t. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating the parameters of the Gaussian distribution over the orientation of the pose of particle/according to .mu..sub.t.sup.[j]=.mu..sub.t-1.sup.[j]-K.sub.t.sup.[j]h.sub.k.sub.c.sub.- ,t.sup.[j], .SIGMA..sub.t.sup.[j]=(I-K.sub.t.sup.[j]H.sub.t.sup.[j]).SIGMA..sub.t-1.s- up.[j], wherein .mu..sub.t-1.sup.[j] is a mean of the Gaussian distribution of particle j at time t-1, .mu..sub.t.sup.[j] is a mean of a next Gaussian distribution of particle, .SIGMA..sub.t-1.sup.[j] is a covariance matrix of the Gaussian distribution of particle j at time t-1, .SIGMA..sub.t.sup.[j] is the covariance matrix of the next Gaussian distribution of particle j, and h.sub.k.sub.c.sub.,t.sup.[j] is a distance measure at a predicted position of the particle j using a contact feature k.sub.c, and K.sub.t.sup.[j]=.SIGMA..sub.t-1.sup.[j]H.sub.t.sup.[j].sup.T(H.sub.t.sup.- [j].SIGMA..sub.t-1.sup.[j]H.sub.t.sup.[j].sup.T+.sigma..sub.k.sub.c.sup.2)- .sup.-1, wherein .sigma..sub.k.sub.c.sup.2 is an uncertainty measure of the contact feature k.sub.c. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining the importance weight at time t of the particle j, w.sub.t.sup.[j] according to w.sub.t.sup.[j].varies.w.sub.t-1.sup.[j](2.pi.q.sub.t.sup.[j]).sup.-1- /2exp(-(h.sub.k.sub.c.sub.,t.sup.[j]).sup.2/2q.sub.t.sup.[j]), wherein q.sub.t.sup.[j]=H.sub.t.sup.[j].SIGMA..sub.t-1.sup.[j]H.sub.t.sup.[j].sup- .T+.sigma..sub.k.sub.c.sup.2. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the particles in the set of particles concentrate around the particular pose by comparing a trace of a covariance matrix of the locations of the particles in the object coordinate system with a predetermined threshold. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the detecting the point of contact is achieved using at least one of a built-in impact detection function of the robot arm, a compliance control of the robot arm, and an external sensor. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the pose of the probe relative to the object is used in an industrial process. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the industrial process includes at least one act of picking up the object, positioning the object, mating a part with the object, determining a pose of a robot with respect to the object, using a tool on the object, and calibrating a robot coordinate system. 19. A method for determining a pose of a probe relative to an object by probing the object with the probe, comprising steps of: determining a probability of the pose using Rao-Blackwellized particle filtering, wherein a probability of a location of the pose is represented by a location of each particle, and a probability of a orientation of the pose is represented by a Gaussian distribution over orientation of each particle conditioned on the location of the particle, wherein the determining is performed for each subsequent probing until the probability of the pose concentrates around a particular pose; and estimating the pose of the probe relative to the object based on the particular pose, wherein the steps of the method are performed by a processor. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the determining further comprises: relocating each particle to a next location according to a motion of the probe from the point of contact to a next point of contact, wherein the motion is caused by the probing; determining an importance weight of each particle based on the next location of the particle, the probability of orientation of the particle, and a map model of the object, wherein the importance weight is a probability that the particle represents the point of contact; and updating the probability of orientation of each particle in the set of particles using Kalman filtering conditioned on the next location of each particle. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: determining the map model based on an object model and an uncertainty model. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising: resampling, after the updating, the set of particles based on the importance weight of each particle. 23. A system configured for determining a pose of a probe relative to an object based on probing the object with the probe and Rao-Blackwellized particle filtering, wherein the pose includes a location of the pose and an orientation of the pose, wherein each probing results in a point of contact between the probe and the object, such that the pose is estimated at each point of contact, comprising: means for representing a probability of the pose of the probe relative to the object by a set of particles, wherein a probability of the location of the pose is represented by a location of each particle, and a probability of the orientation of the pose is represented by a Gaussian distribution over an orientation of each particle conditioned on the location of the particle; means for relocating each particle to a next location according to a motion of the probe from the point of contact to a next point of contact, wherein the motion is caused by the probing; means for determining an importance weight of each particle based on the next location of the particle, the probability of orientation of the particle, and a map model of the object, wherein the importance weight is a probability that the particle represents the point of contact; means for updating the probability of orientation of each particle in the set of particles using Kalman filtering conditioned on the next location of each, particle; means for repeating the relocating, the determining, and the updating until particles in the set of particles concentrate around a particular pose; and means for determining the pose of the probe relative to the object based on the particular pose, wherein the steps of the method are performed by a processor. 24. The system of claim 23, further comprising: means for determining the map model based on an object model and an uncertainty model. 25. The system of claim 23, further comprising: means for resampling the set of particles based on the importance weight of each particle, between the updating and the repeating. 