A radiosurgery system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, the target tissues are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized in which beam energy and direction and duration of time for treatment is determined for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial marker is used to identify the location of the target tissues. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, for treating a structure in an eye, comprising: engaging, with an eye holder, an outer surface of an eye during a treatment period to maintain the eye in substantially a fixed position during the treatment period; acquiring optical data indicative of eye motion; determining, from the optical data, whether the eye is in substantially the fixed position or in a different position than the fixed position; and emitting an x-ray beam from an x-ray source toward the structure based on the determination of whether the eye is in substantially the fixed position during the treatment period; when the eye is determined to be in a different position than the fixed position: (i) aligning the eye, with the eye holder, to be in substantially an aligned the fixed position, or (ii) ceasing or reducing emitting of the x-ray beam from the x-ray source. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the fixed position is substantially at a coordinate within a coordinate system, the coordinate system having a plurality of coordinates that each correspond to a different position of the eye holder relative to the x-ray source. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising ceasing or reducing emission of the x-ray beam when the eye is determined not to be in substantially the fixed position. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting a trajectory of the x-ray beam when the eye is determined not to be in substantially the fixed position. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising acquiring data indicative of a different position of the eye than the fixed position, during the treatment period. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining an x-ray beam trajectory based, at least in part, on the data indicative of the different position of the eye. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the engaging comprises drawing a vacuum between the eye holder and the outer surface of the eye. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the emitting an x-ray beam comprises emitting a plurality of x-ray beams toward the eye, each of the plurality of x-ray beams having a distinct trajectory that substantially avoids the optic nerve of the eye. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising collimating the x-ray beam to a width of less than or equal to about 6 mm. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising emitting the x-ray beam through material of the eye holder that is transmissive to x-ray radiation. 11. A method, for treating a structure in an eye, comprising: engaging, with an eye holder, an outer surface of an eye to maintain the eye in substantially a fixed position during a treatment period; determining whether the eye is in the fixed position using optical data indicative of eye motion; and emitting x-ray radiation from an x-ray radiation source toward the structure based on the determination of whether the eye is in the fixed position during the treatment period; and when the eye is determined not to be in the fixed position, aligning the eye, with the eye holder, to be in substantially the fixed position. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the fixed position is substantially at a coordinate within a coordinate system, the coordinate system having a plurality of coordinates that each correspond to a different position of the eye holder relative to the radiation source. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising ceasing or reducing emission of the x-ray beam when the eye is determined not to be in substantially the fixed position. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising adjusting a trajectory of the radiation when the eye is determined not to be in the fixed position. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising acquiring data indicative of a different position of the eye than the fixed position, during the treatment period. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising determining a radiation trajectory based, at least in part, on the data indicative of the different position of the eye. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein the engaging comprises drawing a vacuum between the eye holder and the outer surface of the eye. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the emitting radiation comprises emitting a plurality of x-ray beams toward the eye, each of the plurality of x-ray beams having a distinct trajectory that substantially avoids the optic nerve of the eye. 19. The method of claim 11, further comprising collimating the radiation to a width of less than or equal to about 6 mm. 20. The method of claim 11, further comprising emitting the radiation through material of the eye holder that is transmissive to radiation. 