Described herein is a method and apparatus for performing calibrations on robotic components. In one embodiment, a method for performing robotic calibrations includes moving the calibrating device across a target (e.g., a wafer chuck). Next, the method includes measuring distances between light spots from the sensors and a perimeter of the target using the sensors located on the calibrating device. Next, the method includes determining a displacement of the calibrating device relative to a center of the target. Then, the method includes determining a rotation angle of the calibrating device relative to a system of coordinates of the target. Next, the method includes calibrating a robot position of the robot based on the displacement and rotation angle of the calibrating device with respect to the target.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: sensing a plurality of start points and end points of a target using a plurality of sensors located on a calibrating device; calculating a center of the target based on the start points and the end points; and determining an offset between the center of the target and a robot blade in a reference position wherein the robot blade moves the calibrating device into a process chamber during the sensing of the start and the end points of the target and a lid of the process chamber is closed during calibration of a robot position. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising calibrating the robot position based on the offset. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the center of the target further comprises determining start and end point coordinates of the target based on the start points and the end points being associated with robot positions. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calibrating a leveling of the robot blade; calibrating a home position of the robot blade with respect to a transfer chamber; and calibrating a zero position of the robot blade. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the target is an electrostatic wafer chuck located in the process chamber. 6. An apparatus, comprising: a plurality of fiber-optic sensors mounted on a calibrating device comprising a composite material; and a power supply located on the calibrating device, wherein the calibrating device is capable of being transferred by a robot blade into a processing chamber in order for the fiber-optic sensors to sense start and end points of a target based on the positioning of the plurality of fiber-optic sensors wherein a lid of the process chamber is closed during calibration of a robot position. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising: a wireless module located in the calibrating device to transmit the start and end points to a processing unit that calculates center coordinates of the target based on the start and end points, determines an offset between the center coordinates of the target and a centerline of the robot blade in a zero position, and calibrates the robot position based on the offset. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising: an amplifier located on the calibrating device to amplify data communicated between the processing unit and the calibrating device; and an accelerometer located on the calibrating device to measure acceleration in three dimensions. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the composite material comprises aluminum and carbon reinforced polymer with the composite material being capable of operating at high temperatures under vacuum with exposure to processing gases. 10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the calibrating device is shaped like a semiconductor wafer with a weight in the range of 100 grams to 350 grams and has a thickness less than or equal to 0.25 inches. 11. A calibrating device, comprising: a microcontroller to control operations of the calibrating device; and a plurality of photoreceivers coupled to the microcontroller, wherein the calibrating device is capable of being transferred by a robot blade into a processing chamber in proximity to a target in order for the photoreceivers to receive light indicating start and end points of the target based on the positioning of the photoreceivers wherein a lid of the process chamber is closed during calibration of a robot position. 12. The calibrating device of claim 11, further comprising: a packet radio coupled to the microcontroller, the packet radio to transmit the start and end points to a processing unit that calculates center coordinates of the target based on the start and end points, determines an offset between the center coordinates of the target and a centerline of the robot blade in a zero position, and calibrates the robot position based on the offset; and a temperature sensor coupled to the microcontroller, the temperature sensor to sense a temperature of the calibrating device, wherein calibrating device is removed from a processing chamber if the temperature of the calibrating device exceeds a maximum temperature for the calibrating device. 13. The calibrating device of claim 11, wherein the calibrating device comprises a composite material that includes aluminum and carbon reinforced polymer with the composite material being capable of operating at high temperatures under vacuum with exposure to processing gases. 