A disk drive testing system includes one or more test racks, and one or more test slots housed by the one or more test racks, each test slot being configured to receive and support a disk drive transporter carrying a disk drive for testing. The disk drive testing system also includes a transfer station for supplying disk drives to be tested. The one or more test racks and the transfer station at least partially define an operating area. The disk drive testing system can also include automated machinery that is disposed within the operating area and is configured to transfer disk drives between the transfer station and the one or more test slots, and a cover at least partially enclosing the operating area, thereby at least partially inhibiting air exchange between the operating area and an environment surrounding the test racks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disk drive testing system comprising: one or more test racks mounted on a floor surface; one or more test slots housed by the one or more test racks, a test slot being configured to receive and to support a disk drive transporter for carrying a disk drive for testing, wherein the disk drive transporter comprises a frame for insertion into the test slot and for carrying the disk drive; a transfer station mounted on the floor surface, with the transfer station for supplying disk drives to be tested, wherein the one or more test racks and the transfer station at least partially define an operating area; automated machinery disposed within the operating area and configured to transfer the disk drives between the transfer station and the one or more test slots; and a cover at least partially enclosing the operating area to at least partially reduce air exchange between the operating area and an environment surrounding the one or more test racks. 2. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the cover substantially encloses the operating area to substantially reduce air exchange between the operating area and the environment surrounding the one or more test racks. 3. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the cover is connected to the one or more test racks. 4. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the cover is connected to the transfer station. 5. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, further comprising a seal disposed between the cover and the one or more test racks, the seal being arranged to reduce air exchange between the operating area and the environment surrounding the one or more test racks. 6. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more test racks comprise one or more first test racks, and wherein the disk drive testing system further comprises: a seal disposed between one of the one or more first test racks and a second test rack that is adjacent to the one of the one or more first test racks, the seal being arranged to reduce air exchange between the operating area and the environment surrounding the one or more test racks. 7. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, further comprising a seal disposed between the transfer station and an adjacent one of the one or more test racks, the seal being arranged to reduce air exchange between the operating area and the environment surrounding the one or more test racks. 8. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, further comprising a seal disposed between the cover and the transfer station, the seal being arranged to reduce air exchange between the operating area and the environment surrounding the one or more test racks. 9. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more test racks comprises: a test slot compartment comprising at least one of the one or more test slots; a test electronics compartment comprising test electronics configured to communicate with at least one of the one or more test slots for executing a test algorithm; and an air mover arranged to move an air flow between the operating area and the test electronics compartment for cooling the test electronics. 10. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, wherein the air mover is disposed within the test electronics compartment. 11. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, wherein the air flow comprises a first air flow, and wherein the disk drive testing system further comprises: a heat exchanger disposed within the test electronics compartment, wherein the air mover is configured to direct a second air flow across the heat exchanger, and wherein the heat exchanger is configured to cool the air flow. 12. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, further comprising a drip pan disposed within the test electronics compartment and arranged to collect condensed moisture from the heat exchanger. 13. The disk drive testing system of claim 12, further comprising a float sensor disposed within the drip pan and configured to detect a liquid level in the drip pan. 14. The disk drive testing system of claim 13, further comprising at least one computer configured for communication with the test electronics and the float sensor, wherein the computer is further configured to control operation of the at least one of the one or more test racks based, at least in part, on signals received from the float sensor. 15. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, wherein the test electronics compartment is substantially isolated from the test slot compartment to reduce air flow between the test electronics compartment and the test slot compartment. 16. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, further comprising an air filter disposed within the test slot compartment arranged to filter air flow passing between the operating area and the test electronics compartment. 17. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the automated machinery comprises at least one robotic arm. 18. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the cover, the one or more test racks, the transfer station, and the floor surface substantially enclose the operating area to reduce air exchange between the operating area and the environment surrounding the one or more test racks. 19. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more test racks and the transfer station are arranged in at least a partially closed polygon about the automated machinery. 