Tissue lacerations are closed using a vacuum cup applied to the tissue surface having a tissue-abutting, optically transparent mesh surface that under vacuum conforms with the tissue surface, apposing edges of the wound, and is optionally loaded with a bandage comprising a chitosan film and a collagen backing. An eye tissue surface wound is closed without sutures by closing the wound with a bioadhesive, biocompatible sclera or cornea wound patch comprising a chitosan film and a collagen backing, wherein the backing is bonded to the film without adhesive and protects the film against dissociation when the patch is exposed to a physiological fluid, and the film adheres to the sclera sufficient to retain apposed edges of the wound.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sutureless method for closing an eye tissue surface wound, comprising step(s): closing the wound with a bioadhesive, biocompatible sclera or cornea wound patch comprising a chitosan film and a collagen backing, wherein the backing is bonded to the film without adhesive and protects the film against dissociation when the patch is exposed to a physiological fluid, and the film adheres to the tissue sufficient to retain apposed edges of the wound, wherein the closing step (a) comprises placing the film over the wound, tamping the film into place to remove fluid or air from between the film and the wound, and then covering the film with the backing; (b) is non-lasered; or (c) comprises lasering the film to the eye. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the closing step comprises placing the film over the wound, tamping the film into place to remove fluid or air from between the film and the wound, and then covering the film with the backing. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the chitosan film is a dried cast of acetic acid dissolved chitosan. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the closing step is non-lasered. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the closing step comprises placing the film over the wound, tamping the film into place to remove fluid or air from between the film and the wound, and then covering the film with the backing, wherein the chitosan film is a dried cast of acetic acid disolved chitosan, wherein the patch is a cornea patch and is optically-transparent, and wherein the closing step is non-lasered. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the closing step comprises lasering the film to the eye. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the closing step comprises lasering the film to the eye by scanning a laser both perpendicularly across (a raster pattern) and parallel to (a tracing pattern) the wound. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the patch is delivered to the tissue with a device comprising: a vacuum cup comprising a mesh surface adapted to receive the tissue surface, wherein when the vacuum cup is applied to the tissue surface and placed under vacuum, the mesh and tissue surfaces conform, apposing edges of the wound to close the wound, wherein the vacuum cup is adapted to transfer to the wound, and is loaded with the wound patch. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the patch is delivered to the tissue with a device comprising: a vacuum cup comprising a mesh surface adapted to receive the tissue surface, wherein when the vacuum cup is applied to the tissue surface and placed under vacuum, the mesh and tissue surfaces conform, apposing edges of the wound to close the wound, wherein the vacuum cup is adapted to transfer to the wound, and is loaded with the wound patch; and wherein the closing step comprises lasering the film to the eye. 10. A sutureless method for closing an eye tissue surface wound, comprising step(s): closing the wound with a bioadhesive, biocompatible sclera or cornea wound patch comprising a chitosan film and a collagen backing, wherein the backing is bonded to the film without adhesive and protects the film against dissociation when the patch is exposed to a physiological fluid, and the film adheres to the tissue sufficient to retain apposed edges of the wound, wherein the patch is a cornea patch and is optically-transparent. 11. A sutureless method of using, for closing an eye tissue surface wound, a bioadhesive, biocompatible sclera or cornea wound patch comprising a chitosan film and a collagen backing, wherein the backing is bonded to the film without adhesive and protects the film against dissociation when the patch is exposed to a physiological fluid, and the film adheres to the tissue sufficient to retain apposed edges of the wound, the method comprising steps: placing over the wound a mesh surface of a vacuum cup adapted to receive the tissue surface, wherein the mesh surface is further adapted to transfer to the wound, and is loaded with the patch; applying a vacuum to the cup, whereby the mesh and tissue surfaces conform, apposing edges of the wound, and the patch adheres to the tissue surface over the wound to close the wound; and releasing the vacuum and removing the cup from the tissue surface. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the tissue is cornea and the patch is optically-transparent. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the closing step comprises placing the film over the wound, tamping the film into place to remove fluid or air from between the film and the wound, and then covering the film with the backing. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the chitosan film is a dried cast of acetic acid dissolved chitosan. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the patch is a cornea patch and is optically-transparent. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the closing step is non-lasered. 17. The method of claim 11 wherein the closing step comprises placing the film over the wound, tamping the film into place to remove fluid or air from between the film and the wound, and then covering the film with the backing, wherein the chitosan film is a dried cast of acetic acid disolved chitosan, wherein the patch is a cornea patch and is optically-transparent, and wherein the closing step is non-lasered. 18. The method of claim 11 wherein the closing step comprises lasering the film to the eye. 19. The method of claim 11 wherein the closing step comprises lasering the film to the eye by scanning a laser both perpendicularly across (a raster pattern) and parallel to (a tracing pattern) the wound. 20. The method of claim 11 comprising a subsequent step of confirming a resultant water tight closure of the wound. 