A system for controlling a remote vehicle, the system comprising: a hand-held controller having a plurality of buttons; a display including a graphical user interface having soft buttons; and a processor in communication with the hand-held controller and the display. Buttons of the hand-held controller are mapped to soft buttons of the graphical user interface to allow actuation of soft buttons of the graphical user interface, and the hand-held controller is capable of switching between two or more button function modes, wherein each button function mode assigns different functions to one or more of the buttons of the hand-held controller.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for controlling a remote vehicle, the system comprising: a hand-held controller having a plurality of buttons; a display including a graphical user interface having soft buttons; and a processor in communication with the hand-held controller and the display, wherein buttons of the hand-held controller are mapped to soft buttons of the graphical user interface to allow actuation of soft buttons of the graphical user interface, and wherein the hand-held controller is capable of switching between two or more button function modes, wherein each button function mode assigns different functions to one or more of the soft buttons and one or more of the buttons of the hand-held controller. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the soft buttons of the graphical user interface allow selection of one or more autonomous assist behaviors of the remote vehicle. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the autonomous assist behaviors include predetermined poses for the remote vehicle. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the autonomous assist behaviors are one or more of ballistic and continuous behaviors for the remote vehicle. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the display is a head-mounted display. 6. A system for controlling a remote vehicle, the system comprising: a hand-held controller having a plurality of buttons; a display including a graphical user interface having soft buttons; and a processor in communication with the hand-held controller and the display, wherein buttons of the hand-held controller are mapped to soft buttons of the graphical user interface to allow actuation of soft buttons of the graphical user interface, and wherein the soft buttons of the graphical user interface allow selection of one or more autonomous assist behaviors of the remote vehicle and wherein the hand-held controller is capable of switching between two or more button function modes, wherein each button function mode assigns different functions to one or more of the soft buttons and one or more of the buttons of the hand-held controller. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the autonomous assist behaviors include predetermined poses for the remote vehicle. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the autonomous assist behaviors are ballistic or continuous behaviors for the remote vehicle. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein the display is a head-mounted display. 10. A quick-release system for use with a portion of a remote vehicle control system, the quick-release system including a quick-release pad attached to a loop on a user's gear, the quick-release pad comprising a temporary adhesive on an outer-facing side thereof and having a size suitable to allow releasable but stable attachment of a hand-held controller to the pad, wherein a complementary temporary adhesive is located on an underside the hand-held controller to mate with the quick-release pad. 11. The quick-release pad of claim 10, wherein the loop is a horizontal loop provided on an outer tactical vest, and a strap connects the quick-release pad to the outer tactical vest loop. 12. The quick-release system of claim 10, further comprising a quick-release mechanism to releasably fasten a tether of a hand-held controller to the user's gear. 13. The quick-release system of claim 10, wherein the temporary adhesive portions are replaceable. 