A system and method for charging a mobile device is disclosed. According to one embodiment, a mobile charging system comprises a mobile device having a battery, a robotic device removably connected to the mobile device, and a charging station removably connected to the robotic device. The robotic device is adapted to detect docking of the mobile device. If the docking of the mobile device is detected, the robotic device autonomously returns to the charging station for charging the battery of the mobile device. The robotic device receives an instruction from the mobile device or a user and performs tasks associated with the instruction.
Claims I claim: 1. A mobile charging system comprising: a mobile device having a battery; a robotic device removably connected to the mobile device, the robotic device being adapted to detect docking of the mobile device; and a charging station removably connected to the robotic device, wherein the robotic device autonomously returns to the charging station for charging the battery of the mobile device if the docking of the mobile device is detected. 2. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the charging station is plugged into a power resource. 3. The mobile charging system of claim 1 has a power source for charging the battery of the mobile device. 4. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the mobile device is a mobile phone, a cordless phone, an MP3 player, a media player, an electronic book, a portable computer, or a digital camera. 5. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the robotic device comprises: one or more actuators; encoders for each actuator for the one or more actuators; and a processor for receiving an instruction from the mobile device or a user. 6. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the robotic device is a walking robot, a wheeled robot, a flying robot, or a crawling robot. 7. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the robotic device detects presence of the mobile phone. 8. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the robot device approaches the mobile device by walking, jumping, flying, sliding, or driving on wheels. 9. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the robotic device tracks position of the mobile phone and/or the charging station. 10. The mobile charging system of claim 1, wherein the mobile charging system communicates with a computer and synchronizes with the computer. 11. A robotic system comprising: a processor; one or more actuators; a robotic device interface connecting with a mobile device having a battery; a robotic device interface connecting with a mobile device having a battery; a detection mechanism for detecting status of docking of the mobile device at the mobile device interface; and a charging interface removably connecting to a charging system; wherein the robotic device autonomously returns to the charging station for charging the battery of the mobile device if the status of docking of the mobile device is confirmed. 12. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the charging station is plugged into a power resource. 13. The robotic system of claim 11 has a power source for charging the battery of the mobile device. 14. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the mobile device is a mobile phone, a cordless phone, an MP3 player, a media player, an electronic book, a portable computer, or a digital camera. 15. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the processor receives an instruction from the mobile device or a user. 16. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the robotic system is a walking robot, a wheeled robot, a flying robot, or a crawling robot. 17. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the robotic system detects presence of the mobile phone. 18. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the robot system approaches the mobile device by walking, jumping, flying, sliding, or driving on wheels. 19. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the robotic system tracks position of the mobile phone and/or the charging station. 20. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the robotic system communicates with a computer and synchronizes with the computer. 