A modular system is provided for producing motor vehicles having at least first and second vehicle variants that differ from one another by having different space requirements in an accessories compartment that is separated from a luggage compartment by a partition wall. The system has a first partition wall that is secured to a side of an upper crossmember facing the accessories compartment to produce a small accessories compartment on the first vehicle variant. The system also has a second partition wall that is secured to a side of the upper crossmember facing the luggage compartment to produce a large accessories compartment on the second vehicle variant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular system for motor vehicles having at least first and second vehicle variants, each vehicle variant having a vehicle body with an upper crossmember, an accessories compartment and a luggage compartment at locations in the vehicle body in proximity to the upper crossmember, the modular system comprising: a first partition wall selectively fastened to a side of the upper crossmember facing the accessories compartment to produce the first vehicle variant with a smaller space requirement in the accessories compartment; and a second partition wall selectively fastened to a side of the upper crossmember facing away from the accessories compartment to produce the second vehicle variant with a larger space requirement in the accessories compartment. 2. The modular system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle body further has a lower crossmember, the first and second partition walls being fastened to substantially common positions on the lower crossmember. 3. The modular system of claim 2, wherein the vehicle body further has opposite side walls the fist and second partition walls being fastened to substantially common positions on the side walls. 4. The modular system of claim 1, further comprising a reinforcing member selectively fastenable to a side of the second partition wall facing the luggage compartment. 5. The modular system of claim 1, wherein the first vehicle variant has a two-wheel drive and the second vehicle variant has a four-wheel drive. 6. The modular system of claim 1, wherein the luggage compartment is a forward structure of the vehicle body. 7. A modular system for motor vehicles having at least first and second vehicle variants, each vehicle variant having a vehicle body with opposite side walls and upper and lower crossmembers extending between the side walls, each of the first and second vehicle variants further having an accessories compartment on a first side of the upper and lower crossmembers and a luggage compartment on a second side of the upper and lower crossmembers, the modular system comprising: a first partition wall selectively fastened to the first side of the upper crossmember, the first side of the lower crossmember and the opposite side walls on the second vehicle variant; and a second partition wall selectively fastened to the second side of the upper crossmember, the first side of the lower crossmember and the opposite side walls, whereby the accessories compartment of second vehicle variant is larger than the accessories compartment of the first vehicle variant. 8. The modular system of claim 7, further comprising a reinforcing member selectively fastenable to a side of the second partition wall facing the luggage compartment. 9. The modular system of claim 7, wherein the first and second partition walls are secured to identical positions on the lower crossmember and the side walls. 10. A process for producing motor vehicles having at least first and second vehicle variants that differ from one another by different space requirements in an accessories compartment that is separated from a luggage compartment by a partition wall, the process comprising: securing a first partition wall between the accessories compartment and the luggage compartment for the first vehicle variant at a side of an upper crossmember of a vehicle body facing the accessories compartment; and securing a second partition wall between the accessories compartment and the luggage compartment for the second vehicle variant at a side of the upper crossmember facing the luggage compartment, wherein the first and second partition walls are configured differently from one another so that the accessories compartment produced with the second partition wall is larger than the accessories compartment produced with the first partition wall. 11. The process of claim 10, further comprising fastening both partition walls to a first side of a lower crossmember of the vehicle body. 12. The process of claim 11, further comprising fastening both partition walls to identical fastening regions on the first side of a lower crossmember of the vehicle body. 13. The process of claim 12, further comprising fastening partition walls to opposite side walls of the vehicle body at identical fastening regions. 14. The process of claim 13, further comprising fastening the partition walls to the lower crossmember and the opposite side walls of the vehicle body by a robotic welder. 15. The process of claim 10, further comprising fastening a reinforcing member to a side of the second partition wall facing the luggage compartment. 