A system and method for counting follicular units using an automated system comprises acquiring an image of a body surface having skin and follicular units, filtering the image to remove skin components in the image, processing the resulted image to segment it, and filtering noise to eliminate all elements other than hair follicles of interest so that hair follicles in an area of interest can be counted. The system may comprise an image acquisition device and an image processor for performing the method. In another aspect, the system and method also classifies the follicular units based on the number of hairs in the follicular unit.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of counting follicular units (FUs), comprising: filtering an image of a body surface comprising skin and FUs to remove background components; processing the image to produce a segmented image, wherein the segmented image comprises two or more image codes corresponding to two or more features to be differentiated; performing noise filtering of the segmented image to remove objects having characteristics that do not correspond to FUs of interest; and counting the FUs of interest. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the image is a digital image. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein filtering to remove background components is accomplished using a background subtraction technique. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the background subtraction technique comprises computing a blurred image and subtracting the blurred image from the image of a body surface comprising skin and FUs. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the blurred image is computed by convolving the image of a body surface comprising skin and FUs with a Gaussian kernel. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the Gaussian kernel is tuned for one or more of a particular patient, an ambient lighting condition, and other clinical condition. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein the background subtraction technique comprises a variance filtering. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein the background subtraction technique comprises an edge detection based process. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein filtering to remove background components is accomplished using a band-pass filter. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein filtering to remove background components comprises removing components corresponding to the skin and other small objects from the acquired image. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein filtering to remove background components comprises low-pass filtering a selected image twice and then subtracting the two resulting filtered images from the image of a body surface comprising skin and FUs. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein filtering to remove background components comprises a first filter step in which the image is filtered using a low-pass filter having a first kernel, and a second filter step in which the image is filtered using a low-pass filter having a second kernel. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first kernel is a Gaussian kernel having substantially the following characteristics: support 21 pixels, and sigma of 1.0. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the second kernel is a Gaussian kernel having substantially the following characteristics: support 21 pixels, and sigma of 0.75. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the first kernel is different from the second kernel. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: acquiring at least one additional image of a same field of view at a known position different from a vantage point of the first image of a body surface comprising skin and FUs, wherein the first image and the at least one additional image are acquired in sequence; computing the coordinate position of a hair on the body surface using the first and the at least one additional images; and filtering out follicular units having a computed coordinate position which is inconsistent with a hair on the body surface. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein noise filtering comprises filtering out any object having an area that differs from a mean object size within the image of a body surface comprising skin and FUs. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein noise filtering comprises filtering out objects whose characteristics include one or more of area, length, location and orientation. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein noise filtering comprises filtering out objects whose characteristics do not correspond to one or more of characteristics for hair based on a sampling of hairs on the body surface and characteristics expected for hair based on predetermined data. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking an FU being counted by: acquiring a plurality of images of the FU in sequence; determining positions of the FU from each of the plurality of images; tracking movement of the FU based upon the determined positions. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising classifying an FU based on a number of hairs in the FU. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a contour of the segmented image of a FU to be classified; calculating an outline profile of the segmented image which disregards concavities in the contour of the segmented image of the FU to be classified; determining a number of defects in the outline profile of the FU to be classified; and classifying the FU at least partially based on the number of determined defects. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the FUs of interest are counted based at least in part upon results of classifying one or more FUs to account for any multiple FUs that appear to be a single FU, and/or any single FUs that appear to be multiple FUs. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the segmented image comprises a binary image. 25. A system for counting follicular units (FUs) on a body surface, comprising: an image acquisition device; and an image processor comprising instructions for filtering an image comprising skin and FUs obtained from the image acquisition device to remove background components; processing the image to produce a segmented image, wherein the segmented image comprises two or more image codes corresponding to two or more features to be differentiated; performing noise filtering of the segmented image to remove objects having characteristics that do not correspond to FUs of interest; and counting the FUs of interest. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the system is a robotic system. 27. The system of claim 26, further comprising a robotic arm on which the image acquisition device is mounted. 28. The system of claim 27, further comprising a controller operatively coupled to the robotic arm and the image processor. 29. The system of claim 25, wherein the image processor is a personal computer. 30. The system of claim 25, wherein the image acquisition device comprises one or more cameras. 31. A system for counting follicular units (FUs) on a body surface, comprising: an interface adapted to receive image data containing FUs; and an image processor comprising one or more modules for executing operations on the image data, the one or more modules including instructions for receiving an image of a body surface comprising skin and FUs; filtering the image to remove background components; processing the image to produce a segmented image, wherein the segmented image comprises two or more image codes corresponding to two or more features to be differentiated; and performing noise filtering to remove objects having characteristics that do not correspond to FUs of interest. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the image processor is programmed for classifying FUs based on a number of hairs in them. 