A remotely controlled insertion system for a medical device is described. The system comprises a robotic device and a remote control mechanism. The robotic device has a handle controller to receive and hold the control handle or proximal end of a medical device. The medical device is capable of moving in up to six ranges of motion. In one embodiment a first motor is connected through a drive screw to a handle controller to move the medical device forward and backward. A second motor is connected to drive wheels effective to rotate the medical device clockwise and counter-clockwise. A third motor drives a series of gears that are connected to one or more control members on the medical device, this being effective to deflect a tip of the medical device so that movement of the third motor causes such deflection. A control unit is connected to all three motors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for remotely controlling the positioning within the body of a patient of a catheter having a catheter handle portion, the system comprising: a robotic device configured to position and control the catheter within the body of the patient, wherein the robotic device is securely affixed to a base or support; and a remote control mechanism configured to control the robotic device, wherein the robotic device comprises: a modular handle controller adapted to engage the catheter handle portion, the modular handle controller comprises a fastening mechanism, a handle assembly, and a catheter control assembly configured to engage a control mechanism on the catheter handle portion when a catheter handle portion is inserted in the modular handle controller; a first motor coupled to the modular handle controller and configured to at least move the catheter forward and backward; a second motor coupled to the modular handle controller and configured to at least rotate the modular handle controller in clockwise and counterclockwise directions about a long axis; a third motor coupled to the modular handle controller and configured to engage the catheter control assembly such that when the third motor is actuated the control mechanism on the catheter handle portion causes deflection of the distal end of the catheter in at least a first direction; and a control unit connected to the first, second and third motors, wherein handles, knobs, switches, or controls on the catheter handle portion are manipulated by the modular handle controller to control the movement of the catheter in a manner that is similar to manual control of the catheter handle portion. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote control mechanism comprises a remote control station and a robotic device controller, an operator using the remote control station to control the robotic device. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the remote control mechanism includes one or more transmitters, receivers, and/or transceivers to communicate information between the remote control station and the robotic device controller. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the location of the remote control station is a shielded control room. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the handle controller uses standard features of the catheter control handle to, within the body of the patient, insert the catheter, steer the catheter, rotate the catheter, place the catheter, shape the catheter, or deflect the catheter, or a combination of two or more thereof. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the modular handle controller further comprises a catheter feeder system. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the modular handle controller further comprises one or more sensors to communicate information to the remote control device regarding movement of the catheter and the environment of the catheter within the patient's body. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the information is communicated to the remote station. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising limiters to limit the advancement or withdrawal of the catheter. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein: the first motor is connected to an externally threaded drive screw; the modular handle controller is connected to an internally threaded drive support; and the drive screw is mated with the drive support. 11. The system of claim 6, wherein a specially designed clip is configured to securely attach an end of the catheter feeder to an introducer sheath to prevent catheter buckling during remote catheter manipulation. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the clip is disposable. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the clip is sterilizable. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sensor disposed proximate to the first motor, the sensor being effective to detect a movement of the first motor. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the modular handle controller further includes a stabilizer bar effective to receive a flexible portion of the catheter. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the stabilizer bar is effective to mate with the flexible portion in a snap-fit manner. 17. The system of claim 15, further comprising a sensor disposed proximate to the stabilizer bar, the sensor being effective to detect force applied by the distal end of the catheter. 18. The system of claim 17, further comprising a limiter connected to the sensor and effective to limit the first motor. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the handle controller is detachably mounted to a rotation assembly. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the handle controller includes a cylinder and the second motor is connected to a drive wheel connected to the cylinder. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the rotation assembly includes the drive wheel and a driven wheel. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the rotation assembly further includes a support wheel. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the support wheel is grooved. 24. The system of claim 19, wherein the handle controller further includes a slip ring. 25. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sensor disposed proximate to the second motor, the sensor being effective to detect a movement, force, or both of the second motor. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein each control member is a switch, knob, lever, slide, gear, or button. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the third motor is connected to the at least one control member through at least one gear. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the third motor is connected to the at least one control member through a first, second and third gear, the third gear including a gear extension defining an opening for placement of the at least one control member. 29. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sensor disposed proximate to the third motor, the sensor effective to detect a movement, force, or both of the third motor. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein each control member is a switch, knob, lever, slide, gear, or button. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the third motor is connected to the at least one control member through at least one gear. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the third motor is connected to the at least one control member through a first, second and third gear, the third gear including a gear extension defining an opening for the knob. 33. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit is connected to the first, second and third motor wirelessly. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the control unit includes a separate control for each of the first, second and third motors. 35. A method for using a remotely controlled robotic catheter device, wherein the device comprises: a robotic device configured to position and control the catheter within the body of the patient, wherein the robotic device is securely affixed to a base or support; and a remote control mechanism configured to control the robotic device, wherein the robotic device comprises: a modular handle controller adapted to engage the catheter handle portion, the modular handle controller comprises a fastening mechanism, a handle assembly, and a catheter control assembly configured to engage a control mechanism on the catheter handle portion when a catheter handle portion is inserted in the modular handle controller; a first motor coupled to the modular handle controller and configured to at least move the catheter forward and backward; a second motor coupled to the modular handle controller and configured to at least rotate the modular handle controller in clockwise and counterclockwise directions about a long axis; a third motor coupled to the modular handle controller and configured to engage the catheter control assembly such that when the third motor is actuated the control mechanism on the catheter handle portion causes deflection of the distal end of the catheter in at least a first direction; and a control unit connected to the first, second and third motors, wherein handles, knobs, switches, or controls on the catheter handle portion are manipulated by the modular handle controller to control the movement of the catheter in a manner that is similar to manual control of the catheter handle portion, the method comprising: inserting the catheter handle portion of a catheter into the modular handle controller; and operating the catheter remotely with the remotely controlled robotic catheter device. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the modular handle controller is inserted into a rotation assembly. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the rotation assembly includes a driving wheel, a driven wheel and a support wheel. 38. The method of claim 35, wherein inserting the catheter handle portion of a catheter into the modular handle controller includes inserting the catheter handle portion into a stabilizer bar. 39. The method of claim 35, wherein inserting the catheter handle portion into the modular handle controller includes connecting the catheter to a motor, the motor configured to impart deflection to a distal tip of the first catheter by actuating a control on the catheter handle portion. 40. The method of claim 35, wherein the inserting the catheter handle portion into the modular handle controller includes fastening the catheter handle portion to the modular handle controller. 41. The system of claim 1, further comprising a catheter coupled to the modular catheter holder. 