A controlled relative motion system comprising a base support, a manipulable support, and a plurality of hinged doubled pivoting links rotatably coupled to the base support and rotatably coupled to the manipulable support. A plurality of force imparting members has at least one coupled to one of the plurality of doubled pivoting links so as to be able to cause it to rotate. Also, at least one is coupled to the base support so as to be able to cause that base support to move toward or away. This joint can be used with a similar control joint, coupled thereto by coupling shafts held apart by a slidable separator, to form an extended length inserter for inserting an object positionable by the insertion joint in an obstructed location reached along a constricted passageway. These structures, positioned within a barrel, can rotate together but an activator slider, positioned at least partially about that barrel though not rotatable therewith, is coupled to the separator to cause sliding thereof.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A controlled relative motion system permitting a controlled motion member therein, joined to a base member therein, to selectively move with respect to that base member, said system comprising: a base support; a manipulable support; a plurality of doubled pivoting links each having therein a base link and a manipulable link rotatably coupled to one another by a link hinge supported both by said base link and said manipulable link, said base link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links being rotatably coupled to said base support by a base hinge supported both by said base link and said base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding base link axis, and said manipulable link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links being rotatably coupled to said manipulable support by a manipulable hinge supported both by said manipulable link and said manipulable support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding support link axis; and a plurality of force imparting members spaced apart from one another, each positioned to have at least a part thereof across from one another extending in a common direction within a supporting structure having a unitary wall therein provided completely surrounding all of said parts of said force imparting members in a plane perpendicular to said common direction with said unitary wall extending along said parts of said force imparting members therein parallel thereto such that said manipulable support is positioned outside said supporting structure adjacent an end thereof, and at least one of said force imparting members in said plurality thereof being coupled to said base link in one of said plurality of doubled pivoting links so that repositionings of at least portions of that force imparting member within said supporting structure in said common direction forces that said base link to rotate about its corresponding said base link axis, and another of said plurality of force imparting members being coupled to said base support so that repositionings of at least portion of that force imparting member within said supporting structure in said common direction forces said base support to move toward or away from both at least a portion of that said force imparting member and said end of said supporting structure without repositioning in said common direction of said one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to a said base link. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein both said base link and said manipulable link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said link hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said base link and said manipulable link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein both said base support and said base link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said base hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said base support and said base link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein both said manipulable support and said manipulable link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said manipulable hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said manipulable support and said manipulable link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein that one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to a said base link in one of said plurality of doubled pivoting links has that portion thereof adjacent that said base link and that said base link both formed from, and joined together by, a common material in a forcing hinge, and said forcing hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between that one of said plurality of force imparting member and said base link in each of said plurality of doubled pivoting links so coupled thereto. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein that one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to a said base link in one of said plurality of doubled pivoting links is a first angular positioning force imparting member, and another of said plurality of force imparting members as a second angular positioning force imparting member is coupled to a said base link in another of said plurality of doubled pivoting links differing from that to which said first angular positioning force imparting member is coupled. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said base support is an insertion base support, said base hinge is an insertion base hinge, said manipulable support is an insertion manipulable support, said manipulable hinge is an insertion manipulable hinge, and said plurality of doubled pivoting links is a plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links all together comprising an insertion joint with each of said insertion plurality of doubled pivoting links having an insertion base link and an insertion manipulable link rotatably coupled to one another by an insertion link hinge supported both by said insertion base link and said insertion manipulable link, and wherein that one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to said insertion base link in one of said insertion plurality of doubled pivoting links comprises an oblong coupling shaft coupled at one end thereof to that said insertion base link and coupled at an opposite end thereof to a control joint of which that one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to said insertion base link is further comprised. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said control joint further comprises a control base support, a control manipulable support, and a plurality of control doubled pivoting links each having therein a control base link and a control manipulable link rotatably coupled to one another by a control link hinge supported both by said control base link and said control manipulable link, said control base link in each of said plurality of control doubled pivoting links being rotatably coupled to said control base support by a control base hinge supported both by said control base link and said control base support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding control base link axis, and said control manipulable link in each of said control plurality of doubled pivoting links being rotatably coupled to said control manipulable support by a control manipulable hinge supported both by said control manipulable link and said control manipulable support so as to be rotatable about a corresponding control support link axis, and further wherein both said insertion base link and said insertion manipulable link in each of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said insertion link hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said insertion base link and said insertion manipulable link in each of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links, and also wherein both said control base link and said control manipulable link in each of said plurality of control doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said control link hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said control base link and said control manipulable link in each of said plurality of control doubled pivoting links. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein both said insertion base support and said insertion base link in each of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said insertion base hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said insertion base support and said insertion base link in each of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links, and further wherein both said control base support and said control base link in each of said plurality of control doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said control base hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said control base support and said control base link in each of said plurality of control doubled pivoting links. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein both said insertion manipulable support and said insertion manipulable link in each of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said insertion manipulable hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said insertion manipulable support and said insertion manipulable link in each of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links, and further wherein both said control manipulable support and said control manipulable link in each of said plurality of control doubled pivoting links are formed from, and joined together by, a common material, and said control manipulable hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between said control manipulable support and said control manipulable link in each of said plurality of control doubled pivoting links. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said oblong coupling shaft coupled at one end thereof to a said insertion base link has a coupling structure with that portion thereof adjacent that said insertion base link and that said insertion base link both formed from, and joined together by, a common material in a forcing hinge, and said forcing hinge is formed at least in part by a thinned portion of that said material extending between that adjacent said coupling structure portion and that said insertion base link. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein that one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to a said insertion base link in one of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links, comprises said coupling shaft as a first coupling shaft that is coupled at one end thereof to that said insertion base link, as a first positioning force imparting member, and further comprises another of said plurality of force imparting members as a second positioning force imparting member comprising an oblong second coupling shaft coupled at one end thereof to a said insertion base link in another of said plurality of insertion doubled pivoting links differing from that to which said first positioning force imparting member is coupled and is coupled at an opposite end thereof to said control joint of which second positioning force imparting member is further comprised. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a separator having an oblong separator cylindrical shell with an open interior therein along its primary extent, said separator cylindrical shell having two recesses in an exterior side thereof extending along said primary extent thereof separated from one another by a shell lobe therebetween also extending along said primary extent of said separator cylindrical shell, and with said first and second coupling shafts each positioned in a corresponding one of said recesses. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein that one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to a said insertion base support comprises an activator slider, slidable along a sliding axis through said insertion base support but prevented from rotating thereabout, and positioned at least partly about said first and second coupling shafts in being coupled to said separator that is slidable along said sliding axis and rotatable thereabout, and further, is coupled to said insertion base support. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a coupling member in said activator slider that is rotatable therein about said sliding axis with said separator being coupled to said coupling member. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising a slide support along at least a portion of which said separator can be slid, said slide support being coupled to said control base support. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising said supporting structure being a barrel formed substantially as a cylindrical shell and positioned within said activator slider and said coupling member and about said base support slider and said slide support. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said barrel also is positioned about at least a portion of said insertion base support and at least a portion of said control base support. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said barrel is supported on a handle so as to be rotatable with respect thereto. 20. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising said supporting structure being a barrel formed substantially as a cylindrical shell and positioned about said first and second coupling shafts. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said barrel also is positioned about at least a portion of said insertion base support and at least a portion of said control base support. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said barrel is supported on a handle so as to be rotatable with respect thereto. 23. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising said supporting structure being a barrel formed substantially as a cylindrical shell and positioned about said coupling shaft. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said barrel also is positioned about at least a portion of said insertion base support and at least a portion of said control joint. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said barrel is supported on a handle so as to be rotatable with respect thereto. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein that one of said plurality of force imparting members coupled to a said base support comprises an activator slider, slidable along and rotatable about a sliding axis through said base support but prevented from rotating with respect to said base support, coupled to a base support slider that is slidable along said sliding axis and rotatable thereabout. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 further comprising a coupling member in said activator slider that is rotatable therein about said sliding axis and to which both said activator slider and said base support slider are slidably and rotatably coupled. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 further comprising a slide support along at least a portion of which said base support slider can be slid. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising said supporting structure being a barrel formed substantially as a cylindrical shell and positioned within said activator slider and said coupling member and about said base support slider and said slide support. 30. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said barrel is supported on a handle so as to be rotatable with respect thereto. 