Milling strategies for machining dental ceramic materials are provided that reduce milling time while maintaining strength, accuracy and marginal integrity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of machining a lithium silicate dental ceramic into a dental article with fabrication time under about 30 minutes per unit, wherein the fracture toughness (K.sub.Ic) and the flexural strength (.sigma..sub.f) of the dental ceramic material are known, comprising: calculating an estimate of the maximal surface critical flaw size and an estimate of the maximal volume critical flaw size of the dental ceramic using the following formula: c=(K.sub.Ic/.sigma..sub.f).sup.2 wherein: c is the maximal surface critical flaw size and 2c is the maximal volume critical flaw size; implementing a machining strategy using a series of diamond tools, wherein the diamond tools comprise embedded diamonds; wherein the machining strategy comprises rough, intermediate and fine machining steps; wherein each step comprises a tool path and machining parameters, wherein the tool path and machining parameters are carried out by at least one of the series of diamond tools; wherein the grain size of the embedded diamonds is larger than approximately the estimated maximal size of the surface critical flaw and smaller than approximately the estimated maximal size of the volume critical flaw. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the machining is conducted on a 5-axis or higher order computer numerical controlled (CNC) machine, wherein the CNC machine comprises a computer (CPU), CNC control unit, memory device and/or software package. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein machining comprises grinding, drilling, milling or a combination thereof. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the dental ceramic blank comprises lithium silicate having a strength in the range from approximately 80 to approximately 180 MPa and a fracture toughness in the range from approximately 0.7 to approximately 1.3 MPam.sup.0.5. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the grain size of the embedded diamonds is from approximately 60 to approximately 150 microns. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the grain size of the embedded diamonds is from approximately 90 to approximately 130 microns. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the machining parameters comprise tool specifications, revolutions per minute, linear speeds, feed rate, feed per rotation, depth of cut and material removal rate. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the depth of cut is smaller than the grain size of the embedded diamonds. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the feed per rotation is smaller than the depth of cut. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the depth of cut is smaller than the estimated maximal value of the surface critical flaw size for fine machining and larger than the estimated maximal value of the surface critical flaw size for rough machining. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the series of tools comprise conical diamond tools with a round tip having diamond grains of different size. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the rough, intermediate and fine machining steps are dependent on the grain size of the embedded diamonds. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the dental ceramic blank is machined into a dental article having a net shape and wherein the rough, intermediate and fine machining steps are further dependent on the difference in volume of the dental ceramic blank and the machined net shape of the dental article and further dependent on the final roughness and accuracy of the machined net shape. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the flexural strength is selected from the group consisting of flexural strength per ISO6872, 3-point bend strength, 4-point bend strength, biaxial flexure strength. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein selection of the series of diamond tools and machining steps reduce machining time while maintaining strength, accuracy and marginal integrity. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein machining is conducted on a computer numerical controlled (CNC) machine, and wherein the accuracy is measured using the CNC machine after machining, wherein the accuracy is within 25 microns or less. 17. A dental article fabricated from a dental ceramic blank using an industrial CNC machine and optimal machining strategy, wherein the fracture toughness (K.sub.Ic) and the flexural strength (.sigma.f) of the dental ceramic material are known, the dental article fabricated by a process comprising: calculating an estimate of the maximal surface critical flaw size and an estimate of the maximal volume critical flaw size of the dental ceramic using the following formula: c=(K.sub.Ic/.sigma..sub.f).sup.2 wherein c is the maximal surface critical flaw size and 2c is the maximal volume critical flaw size; determining the number of machining steps needed to mill the dental ceramic blank into the dental article, wherein each machining step comprises rough, intermediate and/or fine machining, at least one tool path and machining parameters; using at least one of a series of diamond tools for each machining step, wherein the diamond tools comprise embedded diamonds; wherein the grain size of the embedded diamonds is larger than approximately the estimated maximal size of the surface critical flaw and smaller than approximately the estimated maximal size of the volume critical flaw. 18. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the dental article comprises an inside surface, an outside surface and a preparation line and wherein the machining steps comprise one or more of the following: drilling inside the ceramic blank, milling inside the ceramic blank, milling the preparation line inside the ceramic blank, milling the preparation line outside the ceramic blank, drilling outside the ceramic blank, and milling outside the ceramic blank. 19. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the tool diameters range from approximately 0.5 mm to approximately 3.0 mm. 20. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the grain size of the embedded diamonds range from approximately 60 microns to approximately 150 microns. 21. The dental article of claim 20 wherein the grain size of the embedded diamonds range from approximately 90 microns to approximately 130 microns. 22. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the machining parameters comprise tool specifications, revolutions per minute, linear speeds, feed rate, feed per revolution, depth of cut and material removal rate. 23. The dental article of claim 22 wherein the feed rate ranges from approximately 500 mm/min to approximately 5000 mm/min. 24. The dental article of claim 22 wherein the depth of cut ranges from approximately 10 microns to approximately 130 microns. 25. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the dental ceramic blank comprises lithium silicate having a strength in the range from approximately 80 to approximately 180 MPa and a fracture toughness in the range from approximately 0.7 to approximately 1.3 MPam.sup.0.5. 26. The dental article of claim 25 wherein the strength is in the range from approximately 90 to approximately 150 MPa. 27. The dental article of claim 17 wherein a first computer file comprises the specifications of the dental article and wherein the tool path is determined from the specifications in the first computer file. 28. The dental article of claim 27 wherein the dental ceramic blank comprises a geometry and material properties and wherein the specifications of the first computer file are compared with the geometry and material properties of the dental ceramic blank. 29. The dental article of claim 28 further comprising mapping the specifications of the first computer file onto the dental ceramic blank to determine the volume of material to be removed, separating the volume of material to be removed into regions comprising degrees of accuracy and surface roughness. 30. The dental article of claim 29 wherein the regions are machined by rough machining, intermediate machining and/or fine machining steps. 31. The dental article of claim 30 wherein each rough, intermediate and fine machining step comprises at least one tool path, machining parameters and tool selection. 32. The dental article of claim 31 wherein the tool path is calculated and converted into a series of commands in a second computer file. 33. The dental article of claim 32 wherein the second computer file, machining parameters and tool selection are provided to a milling machine. 34. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the dental article comprises an inlay, an onlay, an overlay, a bridge, an abutment, a facing, a veneer, a facet, a crown, a partial crown, a framework or a coping. 35. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the dental ceramic blank comprises a ceramic that may be heat treated after machining to increase the strength and/or the fracture toughness. 36. The dental article of claim 35 wherein the increased strength is equal to or greater than approximately 250 MPa. 37. The dental article of claim 35 wherein the increased fracture toughness is equal to or greater than approximately 1.5 MPam.sup.0.5. 38. The dental article of claim 17 wherein the dental ceramic blank comprises SiO.sub.2, Li.sub.2O, and P.sub.2O.sub.5. 39. The dental article of claim 38 wherein the dental ceramic blank further comprises one or more of K.sub.2O, Al.sub.2O.sub.3, ZnO, Na.sub.2O, ZrO.sub.2, Me.sup.IIO, and a coloring/fluorescent metal oxide. 40. The dental article strategy of claim 39 wherein the Me.sup.IIO comprises CaO, BaO, SrO, MgO or a mixture thereof. 41. The dental article of claim 40 wherein the coloring/fluorescent metal oxide comprises an oxide of Ta, Tb, Y, La, Er, Pr, Ce, Ti, V, Fe, Mn or a mixture thereof. 