The present invention discloses a tactile input/output device for representing and manipulating computer-generated surfaces. Also disclosed are a novel system and method for implementing the forgoing aspects. In essence, there is provided an intuitive concept of manipulating and editing a computer-generated surface, by employing a combination of traditional input and output devices (keyboard, mouse, display, etc.) and a novel device that enables users to touch, edit and modify a physical representation of the surface. The tactile device includes an array of displaceable pins, which are driven by a control system having a plurality of micro-actuators operating in combination with a rack-and-pinion assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tactile input/output system for representing, manipulating and editing computer-generated surfaces, said system comprising: at least one input device for providing a physical representation of a computer model on a computer display surface, said computer model comprises a mathematical model representing a surface reflecting a physical 3-D object; a tactile device enabling a user to touch and modify said physical representation on the computer-generated surface, said tactile device including a 5 degree-of-freedom robot arm mounting an array of pins, said pins having tips matching the computer display surface; a software controller of said computer enabling said robot arm mounting said array of pins to manipulate the computer model on the computer display surface, said array of pins mounted on said robot arm being displaceable by said software controller responsive to changes in the computer model representation to enable a user to edit and transform the computer model by pressing on the pins; said robot arm mounting said array of pins being manipulatable by said user to facilitate viewing and manipulating of said computer model so as to change and enter new or modified shapes of said physical representation on said computer display surface responsive to operation by said user, while the computer controls and maintains the overall representation of the new or modified display surface and concurrently enforce any pre-established constraints by communicating properties of the physical 3-D object to the user through pin displacements. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said computer model comprises a mathematical model representing surface reflecting a 2-D array drivable by specified parameters. 3. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said robot arm includes a 5 degree freedom of motion mechanism for operatively displaying said array of pins, said mechanism comprising a rack-and-pinion assembly for each pin of said array, wherein the heights of said pins are adjustable by a user to modify the computer display surface, and changes in the position of the pins in the tactile device are reflected in the computer model. 4. A system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least one input device includes transformation means for mathematically transforming a viewing angle on the computer surface, and the representation of said surface on the tactile device. 5. A system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said changes in the heights and positions of the pins facilitate modifying parameters of the computer model surface so as to determine surface deformations from a displacement of selected reference points on said surface. 6. A method of operating a tactile input/output system for representing and manipulating computer-generated 3-D surfaces, said method comprising: providing, via a configured computer device, a physical representation of a computer model on a computer display surface, said computer model comprises a mathematical model representing a surface reflecting a physical 3-D object; causing a tactile device to enable a user to touch and modify said physical representation on the display surface, said tactile device including a 5 degree-of-freedom robot arm mounting an array of pins, said pins having tips matching the computer display surface, said array of pins mounted on said robot arm being displaceable by a software controller responsive to changes in the computer model representation to enable a user to edit and transform the computer model by pressing on the pins; and manipulating, via said array of pins mounted on said robot arm, the computer model on the computer display surface to facilitate the viewing and manipulating said computer model so as to change and enter new or modified shapes of said physical representation on said computer display surface responsive to operation by said user, while the computer controls and maintains the overall representation of the new or modified display surface and concurrently enforce any pre-established constraints by communicating properties of the physical 3-D object to the user through pin displacements. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said computer model provides for a mathematical model representing surface reflecting a 2-D array drivable by specified parameters. 8. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said robot arm includes a 5 degree freedom of motion mechanism for operatively displaying said array of pins, said mechanism comprising a rack-and-pinion assembly for each pin of said array, wherein the heights of said pins are adjustable by a user to modify the computer display surface and changes in the position of the pins in the tactile device are reflected in the computer model. 9. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said at least one input device has transformation means mathematically transforming a viewing angle on the computer surface, and the representation of said surface on the tactile device. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said changes in the heights and positions of the pins modify parameters of the computer model surface so as to determine surface deformations from a displacement of selected reference points on said surface. 11. A tactile input/output device for representing and manipulating computer-generated 3-D surfaces, employable in operative relationship with at least one input device for providing a physical representation of a computer model on a computer display surface, wherein a software controller of said computer enables said tactile device to manipulate the computer model on the computer display surface; said tactile input/output device comprising: a 5 degree-of-freedom robot arm mounting an array of pins having tops matching the computer display surface, said array of pins mounted on said robot arm being displaceable by said software controller responsive to changes in the computer model representation to enable a user to edit and transform the computer model, responsive to a user to touching and modifying said physical representation on the display surface, said array of pins mounted on said robot arm being manipulatable by said user to facilitate the yiewing and manipulating of said computer model so as to change and enter new or modified shapes of said physical representation on said computer display surface responsive to operation by said user, while the computer controls and maintains the overall representation of the new or modified display surface and concurrently enforce any pre-established constraints by communicating properties of a physical 3-D object to the user through pin displacements. 12. A device as claimed in claim 11, wherein said computer model comprises a mathematical model representing surface reflecting a real physical object, or a 2-D array drivable by specified parameters. 13. A device as claimed in claim 11, wherein said tactile device includes a 5 degree freedom of motion mechanism for operatively displaying said array of pins, said mechanism comprising a rack-and-pinion assembly for each pin of said array, wherein the heights of said pins are adjustable by a user to modify the computer display surface, and changes in the position of the pins in the tactile device are reflected in the computer model. 14. A device as claimed in claim 13, wherein said changes in the heights and positions of the pins facilitate modifying parameters of the computer model surface so as to determine surface deformations from a displacement of selected reference points on said surface. 