A system and method for harvesting, storing, and implanting biological units, in particular hair follicular units (FUs). The system is particularly useful to facilitate hair transplant procedures. FUs are harvested from a body surface, either attached to a patient or in a strip of removed tissue, and shuttled into a cartridge having a plurality of receptacles. The receptacles are open in a distal direction toward a removal tool, but a cover over the proximal ends of the receptacles prevents the FUs from continuing out of the cartridge. The cover is made of a permissible medium, which may be fluid permeable and/or puncturable. One way to shuttle the FUs is to provide a pressure differential, such as by applying suction to the proximal end of a receptacle. The shuttle subsystem may be incorporated within an overall automated or robotic system, or the shuttle subsystem may form part of a semi-automated or even manual apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device for holding a plurality of biological units, comprising: a body having a first face and a second face and defining a plurality of receptacles therein for holding biological units, the receptacles each passing through the body from the first face to the second face and including a first opening at the first face of the body and a second opening at the second face of the body; and a permissive medium extending over a majority of an area of the second face and covering multiple second openings of the plurality of receptacles, wherein each portion of the permissive medium that covers the multiple second openings of the receptacles is resealable once punctured such that the storage device may be reused more than once. 2. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the body is substantially cylindrical or disk-shaped having a thickness dimension along the direction of the cylindrical axis, and the receptacles are arrayed in a pattern and through the thickness dimension of the body. 3. The storage device of claim 2, wherein the pattern comprises at least one circular array of receptacles along a circumference of the body. 4. The storage device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of receptacles comprises a pressure relief structure that limits the maximum suction created within the receptacle from a source of suction. 5. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the body is substantially rectilinear having a thickness dimension and the receptacles are arrayed in a pattern through the thickness dimension of the body. 6. The storage device of claim 5, wherein the receptacles are arrayed in a close-packed matrix. 7. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the permissive medium comprises a mesh, an air or fluid permeable material, or puncturable material. 8. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the permissive medium comprises a self-sealing elastomer. 9. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the permissive medium comprises a cover attached to the body. 10. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the storage device is disposable. 11. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the biological unit is a hair graft, and the receptacles are sized to closely receive the hair graft. 12. The storage device of claim 11, wherein the storage device is configured to be removably received in a robotic hair transplantation system. 13. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the storage device is configured to be removably received in one or more of a hand-held, partially automated, and fully automated device or system. 14. The storage device of claim 1, wherein at least one receptacle of the plurality of receptacles contains a biological unit preservation solution. 15. The storage device of claim 1, configured to allow for cooling of the biological unit once it is held in a receptacle of the plurality of receptacles. 16. A storage device for holding a plurality of biological units, comprising: a body having a first face and a second face and defining a plurality of receptacles each having a lumen therein for holding biological units, the receptacles each passing through the body from the first face to the second face and including a first opening at the first face of the body and at least one second opening at the second face of the body, wherein at least one of the plurality of receptacles comprises a pressure relief channel formed in the lumen that extends radially outward from the lumen of the at least one of the plurality of receptacles and limits the maximum suction created within the receptacle from a source of suction; and a permissive medium covering the at least one second opening at the second face of the body. 17. The storage device of claim 16, wherein the body is substantially cylindrical or disk-shaped having a thickness dimension along the direction of the cylindrical axis, and the receptacles are arrayed in a pattern and through the thickness dimension of the body. 18. The storage device of claim 17, wherein the pattern comprises at least one circular array of receptacles along a circumference of the body. 19. The storage device of claim 16, wherein the body is substantially rectilinear having a thickness dimension and the receptacles are arrayed in a pattern through the thickness dimension of the body. 20. The storage device of claim 19, wherein the receptacles are arrayed in a close-packed matrix. 21. The storage device of claim 16, wherein the permissive medium comprises puncturable material or an air or fluid permeable material. 22. The storage device of claim 16, wherein the permissive medium comprises a self-sealing elastomer. 23. The storage device of claim 16, wherein the permissive medium comprises a cover removably or permanently attached to the body. 24. The storage device of claim 16, wherein at least a portion of the permissive medium is rendered unusable once punctured such that the storage device is a single-use device. 25. The storage device of claim 16, wherein at least a portion of the permissive medium is resealable once punctured such that the storage device may be reused more than once. 26. The storage device of claim 16, wherein the biological unit is a hair graft, and the receptacles are sized to closely receive the hair graft. 27. The storage device of claim 26, wherein the storage device is configured to be removably received in a robotic hair transplantation system. 28. The storage device of claim 16, wherein the pressure relief channel comprises one or more notches. 29. The storage device of claim 16, wherein at least one receptacle of the plurality of receptacles contains a biological unit preservation solution. 30. The storage device of claim 16, configured to allow for cooling of the biological unit once it is held in a receptacle of the plurality of receptacles. 31. The storage device of claim 16, wherein there is a plurality of pressure relief channels formed in the lumen. 