A laparoscopic instrument holder for positioning a laparoscopic device includes a central portion having a first member operatively associated with a second member, the members selectively movable with respect to one another along a central axis, with the central portion having a proximal end defined by the first member and a distal end defined by the second member. The holder also includes at least three proximal rotational joints coupled to the first member proximate the proximal end, at least two distal rotational joints coupled to the second member proximate the distal end, a first ball and socket joint coupled to a distal rotational joint, and a second ball and socket joint coupled to the first ball and socket joint. In addition, the holder includes a clamp configured and dimensioned for retaining a laparoscopic device, with the clamp coupled to the second ball and socket joint, and a coupling portion proximate a first of the proximal rotational joints.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laparoscopic instrument holder for positioning a laparoscopic device comprising: a central portion comprising a first member operatively associated with a second member, the members selectively movable with respect to one another along a central axis, the central portion having a proximal end defined by the first member and a distal end defined by the second member; at least three proximal rotational joints coupled to the first member proximate the proximal end; at least two distal rotational joints coupled to the second member proximate the distal end; a first ball and socket joint coupled to a distal rotational joint; a second ball and socket joint coupled to the first ball and socket joint; a clamp configured and dimensioned for retaining a laparoscopic device, the clamp coupled to the second ball and socket joint; and a coupling portion proximate a first one of the at least three proximal rotational joints. 2. The laparoscopic instrument holder of claim 1, wherein each ball and socket joint comprises a ball and a washer. 3. The laparoscopic instrument holder of claim 1, wherein the first ball and socket joint comprises a first ball and the second ball and socket joint comprises a second ball, and wherein the first and second balls are rigidly coupled to each other. 4. The laparoscopic instrument holder of claim 3, wherein the first and second balls are rigidly coupled to each other by a shaft. 