A method and system for aligning robotic wafer transfer systems provides a wafer cassette having one or more wafer slots having portions covered with an electrically conductive material and a sensor that is in electrical communication with the electrically conductive material. When a wafer is loaded into a wafer cassette such as may be contained within a wafer transfer module such as a FOUP, an indication of position is delivered to the sensor which detects the alignment and indicates if the loaded wafer undesirably contacts either or both of the opposed grooves that form the wafer slot of the wafer cassette. An indication of the wafer's position may be provided from the sensor to a controller that delivers a signal for aligning the wafer transfer blade of the wafer transfer robot responsive to the signal indicative of position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating alignment of a robotic wafer transfer system that includes a wafer transfer blade, said method comprising: providing a wafer cassette with a plurality of wafer slots oriented generally horizontally, wherein each of said plurality of wafer slots comprises opposed grooves, and wherein each of said opposed grooves comprises an upper surface, a side surface, and a lower surface; positioning an electrically conductive material on each of said upper surfaces of said opposed grooves of a first wafer slot of said plurality of wafer slots, said electrically conductive material in electrical communication with a sensor that detects when a wafer contacts said electrically conductive material; transferring a wafer disposed on said wafer transfer blade into said first wafer slot; and determining whether said wafer is misaligned within said first wafer slot. 2. The method as in claim 1, further comprising delivering an indication of misalignment to a controller and calibrating alignment of said wafer transfer blade based on said indication. 3. The method as in claim 1, wherein said providing a wafer cassette comprises placing said wafer cassette in a wafer transfer module. 4. The method as in claim 3, wherein said wafer transfer module comprises a front opening unified pod (FOUP). 5. The method as in claim 1, wherein said providing a wafer cassette comprises placing said wafer cassette in a receive position on a semiconductor manufacturing tool. 6. The method as in claim 1, wherein said providing a wafer cassette comprises placing said wafer cassette in a wafer transfer module in a receive position of a semiconductor manufacturing tool. 7. The method as in claim 1, wherein said determining comprises said sensor independently sensing contact between each of said opposed grooves, and said wafer. 8. The method as in claim 1, further comprising disposing said electrically conductive material on said respective side surfaces of said opposed grooves of said first wafer slot. 9. The method as in claim 1, wherein said determining further comprises delivering an alarm, said alarm being at least one of an audio alarm and a visual alarm. 10. The method as in claim 1, wherein said determining further comprises delivering a visual alarm being at least one of illumination of a first light indicating contact of said wafer with a first groove of said opposed grooves of said first wafer slot and illumination of a second light indicating contact of said wafer with the other of said opposed grooves of said first wafer slot. 11. The method as in claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive material comprises foil or wire. 12. The method as in claim 1, further comprising providing an electrically conductive material on a surface of said wafer and in electrical communication with said sensor. 13. The method as in claim 2, wherein said plurality of wafer slots also comprises a second wafer slot, and said method further comprises, after said transferring: transferring said wafer to said second wafer slot; determining whether said wafer is misaligned within said second wafer slot; delivering an indication of misalignment within said second wafer slot to said controller; and calibrating alignment of said wafer transfer blade based on said indication. 14. A system for calibrating alignment of a robotic wafer transfer system, said system comprising: a wafer cassette with a plurality of wafer slots disposed generally horizontally, wherein each of said plurality of wafer slots comprises opposed grooves, and wherein each of said opposed grooves comprises an upper surface, a side surface, and a lower surface; an electrically conductive material on said upper surfaces of said opposed grooves of at least a first wafer slot of said plurality of wafer slots; a sensor that detects when a wafer contacts said electrically conductive material, said sensor in electrical communication with said electrically conductive material; a wafer transfer blade capable of delivering said wafer to each of said wafer slots; a controller that aligns said wafer transfer blade responsive to a signal indicative of a position of said wafer delivered by said sensor. 15. The system as in claim 14, wherein said electrically conductive material comprises foil or wire. 16. The system as in claim 15, wherein said sensor delivers a visual alarm being at least one of illumination of a first light indicating contact of said wafer with a first one of said opposed grooves of said first wafer slot and illumination of a second light indicating contact of said wafer with the other of said opposed grooves of said first wafer slot. 17. The system as in claim 15, further comprising electrically conductive material disposed on said side surfaces of said opposed grooves of said first wafer slot. 18. A wafer cassette for calibrating a robotic wafer transfer system, said wafer cassette comprising a plurality of wafer slots, said plurality of wafer slots comprising a first wafer slot comprising at least one electrically conductive surface, said electrically conductive surface electrically coupled to a sensor that detects when a wafer contacts said electrically conductive surface. 19. The wafer cassette as in claim 18, wherein said electrically conductive surface comprises foil or wire. 20. The wafer cassette as in claim 18, wherein each of said plurality of wafer slots comprises a pair of opposed grooves for receiving respective opposed edges of said wafer. 21. The wafer cassette as in claim 20, further comprising said electrically conductive surface disposed on at least a few other wafer slots of said plurality of wafer slots. 22. The system as in claim 14, further comprising said electrically conductive material on respective upper surfaces of respective opposed grooves of at least a few additional wafer slots of said plurality of wafer slots. 