An exemplary embodiment discloses a polymer system including a shape memory polymer material and a graphene material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for improving the scratch resistance and self healing powers of a polymeric material including a shape memory polymer material, the method comprising: introducing a graphene material to the shape memory polymer material in an amount that improves the scratch resistance and self healing powers of the shape memory polymer material, wherein said graphene material comprises between about 0.005 and 0.025 weight percent of the shape memory polymer material. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said graphene material comprises between about 0.005 and 2 weight percent of the shape memory polymer material. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape memory polymer material comprises an epoxy thermosetting polymeric material. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said graphene material comprises between 1 and 10 layers of graphene. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said graphene material comprises more than one layer of graphene. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: forming the shape memory polymer material from an aromatic diepoxide, an aliphatic diepoxide, and an aliphatic diamine curing agent. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: preparing the graphene material using a microwave plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition technique. 8. A method comprising: forming a shape memory polymer material; introducing an amount of a graphene material to said shape memory polymer to form a polymer system with improved scratch resistance and self healing powers, wherein said polymer system is capable of transforming between an original permanent shape and a temporary shape; providing at least one substrate material; providing said polymer system in said temporary shape; coupling said polymer system in said temporary shape to at least one of said at least one substrate materials, wherein said graphene material comprises between about 0.005 and 0.025 weight percent of the shape memory polymer material. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said graphene material comprises between about 0.005 and 2 weight percent of the shape memory polymer material. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said graphene material comprises between 1 and 10 layers of graphene. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein forming a shape memory polymer and introducing a graphene material to said shape memory polymer to form a polymer system comprises: providing an ultrasonic bath; mixing an aliphatic diamine curing agent and a small amount of a graphene material in said ultrasonic bath; introducing an aromatic diepoxide and an aliphatic diepoxide to said aliphatic diamine curing agent and said small amount of said graphene material to form a mixture; introducing said mixture to a mold; curing said mixture within said mold; optionally post-curing said cured mixture within said mold; and removing said cured mixture from said mold. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the mole ratio of said aromatic diepoxide, said aliphatic diepoxide, and said aliphatic diamine curing agent within said mixture is about 1.6/0.4/1.0. 13. The method of claim 8 further comprising: transforming said polymer system from said temporary shape to said permanent shape; and uncoupling said polymer system in said permanent shape from said at least one of said at least one substrate materials. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein said at least one substrate material comprises at least two substrate materials, wherein each of said at two substrate materials is each individually coupled to said polymer system in said temporary shape. 