The present invention is directed to an interactive intelligent toy comprising an intelligent element configured to resemble a person, animal, vehicle or other character and an environmental element configured to resemble a related environment, habitat or object. The intelligent element is adapted to perform certain preprogrammed actions upon coming into contact with or proximity to the environmental element. In one embodiment, the intelligent element is a motive component having a drive mechanism, a control mechanism and power source. The motive component is programmed to monitor and detect user and event inputs, and detect and decode embedded codes from an environmental element and perform predetermined actions or generate predetermined sounds in response. The motive component also engages with a coupling component and supplies the drive mechanism and power source for moving both the motive component and the coupling component.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. An interactive intelligent toy, comprising: a motive component comprising a drive mechanism including a motor operable to rotate first and second wheels in a first direction and a second direction; control circuitry operable to control direction of rotation of said motor to thereby move said motive component in said first and second directions, wherein said motive component further includes mechanical switches operable to detect raised bumps in a surface under said motive component and to actuate to enable detection of a code associated with said raised bumps, and wherein said control circuitry is programmed to randomly implement a predetermined movement of said motive component in response to said detected code and does not direct said motive component to perform said predetermined movement in response to said detected code every time said code is detected; and, a kickstand, operable to retract when said drive mechanism rotates said wheels in said first direction such that said kickstand does not restrict movement of said wheels, and said kickstand is operable to extend when said drive mechanism rotates said wheels in said second direction to disable said second wheel such that rotation of said first wheel causes said motive component to turn in an arc shape. 2. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 1, wherein said control circuitry is operable to communicate with said drive mechanism, and wherein said control circuitry commands said drive mechanism in response to said detected code. 3. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 1, wherein said control circuitry is operable to generate a sound in response to said detected code. 4. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 1, wherein said motive component is directed by said control circuitry to perform at least one predetermined action in response to said detected code. 5. The interactive intelligent toy of claim 4, wherein said predetermined action comprises a movement action, a sound action, or combinations thereof 