Vapor deposition systems and methods associated with the same are provided. The systems may be designed to include features that can promote high quality deposition; simplify manufacture, modification and use; as well as, reduce the footprint of the system, amongst other advantages.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An atomic layer deposition process comprising: positioning a substrate in a reaction chamber having a top surface, a bottom surface and a sidewall between the top and bottom surfaces; introducing a first precursor into the reaction chamber through a precursor port formed in the bottom surface, wherein a precursor layer of the first precursor is deposited on the substrate; removing gaseous species through an outlet port formed in the bottom surface; introducing a second precursor in to the reaction chamber through a precursor port formed in the bottom surface, wherein the precursor layer and the second precursor react to form a material layer on the substrate; removing gaseous species through the outlet port formed in the bottom surface, continuously introducing an inert gas into the reaction chamber during the steps of introducing the first precursor, removing gaseous species, introducing the second precursor and removing gaseous species; and reacting gaseous species removed through the outlet port on a surface area of a trap material positioned, at least in part, in the outlet port maintaining said trap material at an elevated temperature by thermal conduction from the reaction chamber without using a separate heater to heat said trap material, wherein the first precursor, the second precursor and the inert gas are introduced through the same precursor port which flow up out of the precursor port outlet on one side of the substrate, flow over an upper surface of the substrate to form the material layer on the substrate and then flow down into the outlet port, wherein gaseous species are continuously removed from the reaction chamber during the process, wherein a majority of the surface area of the trap material is substantially parallel to flow of gaseous species through the trap, and wherein the trap material is formed from a coiled corrugated non-porous metal foil element having a smooth surface. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein introducing the first precursor comprises pulsing the first precursor and introducing the second precursor comprises pulsing the second precursor. 3. The process of claim 2, wherein the layer of the first precursor is deposited on the substrate by pulsing the first precursor and a layer of the second precursor is deposited on the layer of the first precursor by pulsing the second precursor, the first precursor and the second precursor reacting to form a layer comprising a compound. 4. The process of claim 2, further comprising repeating the steps of pulsing the first precursor and pulsing the second precursor. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the gaseous species includes unreacted precursor and reaction product. 6. The process of claim 1, further comprising observing by eye a precursor deposition distance along a length of the trap to determine information related to precursor overdose. 7. The process of claim 1, further comprising introducing the first precursor into the reaction chamber directly from the precursor port formed in the bottom surface and introducing the second precursor into the reaction chamber directly from the precursor port formed in the bottom surface. 8. The process of claim 1, wherein a manifold including an outlet is connected to the precursor port and respective inlets of the manifold are connected to a first precursor supply and a second precursor supply. 9. The process of claim 8, further comprising heating the manifold. 10. The process of claim 8, wherein a first pulse valve is disposed between the first precursor supply and the manifold and a second pulse valve is disposed between the second precursor supply and the manifold. 11. The process of claim 10, wherein each pulse valve includes an inert gas input port. 12. The process of claim 11, wherein the pulse valves pass a continuous flow of inert gas to the precursor port while passing pulses of the first precursor and the second precursor to the precursor port. 13. The process of claim 10, wherein the pulse valves generate precursor pulses using open pulse times in the range of 1-100 msec. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein the wherein the manifold includes only a single outlet. 15. The process of claim 1, wherein substantially none of the trap material surface area is perpendicular to flow of gaseous species through the trap. 16. The process of claim 1, wherein the gaseous species includes unreacted precursor, inert gas and reaction product. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of introducing the inert gas into the reaction chamber generates a substantially constant base pressure inside the reaction chamber. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of introducing inert gas into the reaction chamber generates a substantially constant base pressure inside the reaction chamber, the step of introducing the first precursor into the reaction chamber generates a first pulse pressure comprising the sum of the base pressure and a partial pressure of the first precursor, and the step of introducing the second precursor into the reaction chamber generates a second pulse pressure comprising the sum of the base pressure and a partial pressure of the second precursor. 