A system and a method that promotes the restoration of physical functions of the neuromuscular system by incorporating into one device the treatment modalities of biofeedback based repetitive practice, includes an actuator, a joint position measurement system, a force sensing measurement system, an EMG measurement system, a neuromuscular low-level stimulation system, a controller, and a display device.
Claims We claim: 1. A method implementing a protocol for restoring physical function of at least one neuromuscular system associated with a joint in a patient, the method comprising: measuring a first signal indicative of the activity of said muscle through an EMG sensor; measuring a second signal indicative of the joint motion through a joint position sensor; measuring a third signal indicative of the muscle resistance through a force sensor; mapping the measured signals to at least one parameter; and controlling the air level in an inflatable device in order to optimize said parameter for restoring physical function of said muscle associated with the joint in the patient, the inflatable device being adjacent to the joint and being inflated or deflated through at least one port associated with the device. 2. The method according to claim 1, further including storing information in an electronic memory system, said information including patient compliance and patient performance. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the electronic memory system is located remotely from the patient. 4. The method according to claim 1 including providing a computer processor for implementing the protocol. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the computer processor is located remotely from the patient. 6. The method according to claim 2, further including providing the stored information from the electronic memory system to the therapist and/or patient on demand. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the EMG sensor is used for measuring the electrical activity of an agonist resisting neuromuscular system. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the force sensor is used for measuring the force signal from an antagonist resisting neuromuscular system. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the force sensor is a force sensitive resistor. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the force sensor is the pneumatic muscle wherein the force is obtained from displacement and pressure measurements of the pneumatic muscle. 11. The method according to claim 2, further including the step of displaying the electrical activity from the EMG sensor to the patient through a first display. 12. The method according to claim 11, further including the step of displaying a degree of flexor resistance torque measured by the force sensor through a second display. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the displays provide a means for the patient to monitor the compliance and performance. 14. The method according to claim 13, further including the step of updating the displays to provide a mechanism for the patient to improve said performance and said compliance. 15. The method according to claim 1, further providing stimulation through at least one neuromuscular stimulating electrode to the neuromuscular system. 16. A method implementing a protocol for restoring physical function of at least one neuromuscular system associated with a joint in a patient, the method comprising: providing at least one joint position sensor for detecting self-actuation of a joint and measuring a joint motion; providing a computer processor for implementing a protocol responsive when self-actuation is detected by the at least one joint position sensor but the measured joint motion has not achieved a predetermined value or when self-actuation is attempted but the measured joint motion has not achieved a predetermined value; providing electronic memory for storing the protocol; and providing a motion causing device for assisting the at least one joint in movement, said motion causing device following the protocol implemented by the computer processor such that the joint motion achieves the predetermined value. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the motion-causing device is an air-muscle. 18. The method according to claim 16 wherein the computer processor is located remotely from the patient. 19. The method according to claim 16 wherein the electronic memory system is located remotely from the patient. 