Embodiments of the invention contemplate the formation of a high efficiency solar cell using novel methods to form the active doped region(s) and the metal contact structure of the solar cell device. In one embodiment, the methods include the steps of depositing a dielectric material that is used to define the boundaries of the active regions and/or contact structure of a solar cell device. Various techniques may be used to form the active regions of the solar cell and the metal contact structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: depositing a dopant material comprising a first dopant on a plurality of regions of a first surface of a substrate in a first deposition station disposed in an automation assembly, wherein the first deposition station comprises a screen printing mask and at least one actuator configured to position the screen printing mask; forming a dielectric layer over the dopant material and a portion of the first surface of the substrate in a second deposition station disposed in the automation assembly, wherein the dielectric layer comprises a second dopant that is an opposite doping type of the first dopant; heating the substrate to a desired temperature in a heating chamber disposed in the automation assembly to cause the first and the second dopants to diffuse into the first surface of the substrate; and depositing a conducting layer over at least a portion of the first surface of the substrate in a third deposition station disposed in the automation assembly, wherein the third deposition station comprises a screen printing mask and at least one actuator configured to position the screen printing mask. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising exposing the first surface of the substrate to a cleaning solution in a first wet processing chamber disposed in the automation assembly prior to or after heating the substrate. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising texturing the first surface or a second surface of the substrate in a second wet processing chamber disposed in the automation assembly. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: texturing the first surface or a second surface of the substrate in a second wet processing chamber disposed in the automation assembly; forming a second dielectric layer over the first surface of the substrate after texturing the first surface of the substrate; and patterning the second dielectric layer to form a plurality of regions, wherein the plurality of regions are adapted to expose a portion of the first and the second dopants diffused into the substrate. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming a capping layer over the dielectric layer in the second deposition station disposed in the automation assembly before heating the substrate. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: depositing an etching material over one or more regions of the dielectric layer in a fourth deposition chamber which comprises a screen printing mask and at least one actuator configured to position the screen printing mask, and wherein heating the substrate to the desired temperature further comprises heating the substrate and the etching material to the desired temperature to cause the first and the second dopants to diffuse into the substrate. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the etching material comprises a third dopant. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising forming a capping layer over the dielectric layer before heating the substrate. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: etching one or more regions of the dielectric layer to expose a portion of the first surface of the substrate, wherein a dopant containing residue comprising the second dopant is left at the exposed portion of the first surface of the substrate; and heating the substrate to a desired temperature to cause the first dopant and the dopant containing residue to diffuse into the substrate. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: etching one or more regions of the dielectric layer before heating the substrate, wherein etching the one or more regions further comprises using an etching material that contains a third doping material, which contains a doping atom that is different than the first doped material. 11. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: depositing a dielectric material on a first surface of a substrate; texturing the first surface or a second surface of the substrate in a second wet processing chamber disposed in the automation assembly; depositing an etchant material on a plurality of first regions of a surface of the dielectric material using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a first screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator; removing at least a portion of the dielectric material adjacent to the first regions to form a plurality of exposed regions of the first surface, wherein removing the at least a portion of the dielectric material comprises heating the substrate to cause the etchant material to etch the at least a portion of the dielectric material; and depositing a first dopant material on at least a portion of at least two or more exposed regions using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a second screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: depositing a conducting layer over at least a portion of the exposed regions in a third deposition station disposed in the automation assembly, wherein the third deposition station comprises a screen printing mask and at least one actuator configured to position the screen printing mask. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: removing material from a second surface of the substrate to form a desirable roughness on the second surface. 14. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: depositing a dielectric material on a first surface of a substrate; depositing an etchant material on a plurality of first regions of a surface of the dielectric material using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a first screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator; removing at least a portion of the dielectric material adjacent to the first regions to form a plurality of exposed regions of the first surface, wherein removing the at least a portion of the dielectric material comprises heating the substrate to cause the etchant material to etch the at least a portion of the dielectric material; depositing a first dopant material on at least a portion of at least two or more exposed regions using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a second screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator; depositing etchant material on a plurality of second regions of the surface of the dielectric material using a screen printing process; removing at least a second portion of the dielectric material adjacent to the second regions to form a plurality of second exposed regions of the first surface, wherein removing the at least the second portion of the dielectric material comprises heating the substrate to cause the etchant material to etch the at least the second portion of the dielectric material; depositing a second dopant material on at least a portion of at least two or more of the second exposed regions using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a third screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator; and depositing a second conducting layer over at least a portion of each of the second exposed regions in a fourth deposition station disposed in the automation assembly, wherein the fourth deposition station comprises a fourth screen printing mask and at least one actuator configured to position the fourth screen printing mask. 15. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: disposing a first dopant material comprising a first dopant on a plurality of first regions of a first surface of a substrate using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a first screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator; forming a dielectric layer over the first dopant material and at least a portion of the first surface of the substrate; depositing etchant material on a plurality of second regions of the surface of the dielectric material using a screen printing process; heating the substrate to a desired temperature at least once to cause the first dopant to diffuse into the first surface of the substrate, and remove at least a portion of the dielectric material by causing the etchant material to etch the dielectric material adjacent to the second regions of the surface; and depositing a conducting layer over at least a portion of the first surface of the substrate using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a second screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the dielectric layer comprises a second dopant that is an opposite doping type of the first dopant, and the heating the substrate further comprises heating the substrate to cause the first dopant and the second dopant to simultaneously diffuse into the first surface of the substrate. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising texturing the first surface or a second surface of the substrate in a second wet processing chamber. 