A transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly comprising: an aerodynamic flying assembly comprising an unmanned aerial vehicle integrated with an unmanned ground vehicle, a power unit shared by the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle, vehicle controls shared by the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle, a disengagement mechanism to separate the unmanned ground vehicle from the unmanned aerial vehicle, one or more manipulator arms located on either the unmanned aerial vehicle or the unmanned ground vehicle, and landing gear.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly comprising: an unmanned aerial vehicle integrated with an unmanned ground vehicle, the integration between the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle being strong enough to bear the weight of the unmanned ground vehicle during flight of the unmanned aerial vehicle; a power unit shared by the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle; vehicle controls shared by the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle; a disengagement mechanism to separate the unmanned ground vehicle from the unmanned aerial vehicle; one or more manipulator arms located on either the unmanned aerial vehicle or the unmanned ground vehicle; and landing gear. 2. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the unmanned aerial vehicle comprises a first ducted fan assembly, a second ducted fan assembly, and a forward payload pod affixed on a first end to the first ducted fan assembly and affixed on a second end to the second ducted fan assembly, wherein the unmanned ground vehicle comprises a power unit contained in a power unit housing, a first rearward payload pod connected to the power unit housing, a second rearward payload pod connected to the power unit housing, a base moveably connected to the power unit housing, and an ambulation mechanism moveably connected to the base, and wherein a free end of the first rearward payload pod is capable of being connected to the first ducted fan assembly and a free end of the second rearward payload pod is capable of being connected to the second ducted fan assembly. 3. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the unmanned ground vehicle is capable of transitioning between a stowed position for flight and an active position for ground ambulation. 4. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 2, wherein the unmanned ground vehicle is capable of transitioning between a stowed position for flight and an active position for ground ambulation, and wherein the base houses the ambulation mechanism when in the stowed position, and wherein the ambulation mechanism is fully extended from the base when the unmanned ground vehicle transitions into an the active position prior to separating from the unmanned aerial vehicle. 5. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 2, wherein the unmanned ground vehicle is capable of transitioning between a stowed position for flight and an active position for ground ambulation, and wherein, in the stowed position, the unmanned ground vehicle is affixed to the unmanned aerial vehicle via the first and second rearward payload pods, and the base is rotated to a substantially vertical position such that a bottom of the base faces the forward payload pod, a top of the base faces the power unit housing, and each side of the base faces one of the ducted fan assemblies. 6. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 2, wherein the unmanned ground vehicle is capable of transitioning between a stowed position for flight and an active position for ground ambulation, and wherein, in the active position, the base is rotated to a substantially horizontal position and the ambulation mechanism is capable of making contact with ground. 7. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 2, wherein the base is aerodynamically shaped. 8. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the unmanned ground vehicle is integrated with the unmanned aerial vehicle via a latching mechanism, and wherein the latching mechanism ensures proper alignment of electrical connector pins contained on both the unmanned ground vehicle and the unmanned aerial vehicle. 9. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 2, wherein the ambulation mechanism is a dual set of continuous tracks. 10. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the disengagement mechanism comprises a dual set of continuous tracks and the unmanned ground vehicle is integrated with the unmanned aerial vehicle via a latching mechanism, wherein the disengagement mechanism disengages the unmanned ground vehicle from the unmanned aerial vehicle by rotating front ends of the tracks toward the ground until contact and continuing to push the front ends against the ground to cause the unmanned ground vehicle to lift up and out of the latching mechanism, and wherein the disengagement mechanism re-engages the unmanned ground vehicle with the unmanned aerial vehicle by rotating back ends of the tracks upward to cause the unmanned ground vehicle to lift up and over the latching mechanism and lowering the unmanned ground vehicle into the latching mechanism. 11. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 10, wherein the latching mechanism comprises a dovetail joint. 12. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein one of the one or more manipulator arms is located at the a top of the power unit housing. 13. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the unmanned aerial vehicle comprises a ducted fan assembly, which houses the shared power unit and vehicle controls and has permanently extended comprises the landing gear, and wherein the unmanned ground vehicle comprises an all terrain vehicle that comprises a landing platform formed on the a top surface of the all terrain vehicle and one or more payload pods integrated into a housing of the all terrain vehicle, and wherein the landing gear of the unmanned aerial vehicle is received by a plurality of landing gear receptacles contained in the landing platform of the unmanned ground vehicle. 14. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 13, wherein the landing gear comprises a plurality of substantially rigid legs, and wherein the plurality of landing gear receptacles are conically shaped to guide the landing gear into proper alignment with a latching mechanism that integrates the unmanned ground vehicle with the unmanned aerial vehicle. 15. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 14, wherein the latching mechanism comprises a plurality of solenoids corresponding with each of the plurality of landing gear receptacles. 16. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the landing gear provides an interface of electrical connector pins to transmit electrical power and control signals between the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle. 17. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the landing gear is protected on the end of each substantially rigid leg by a spring loaded cap. 18. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 13, wherein the disengagement mechanism comprises the unmanned aerial vehicle itself, which disengages from the unmanned ground vehicle by taking off and re-engages by landing on the landing platform. 19. The transforming unmanned aerial-to-ground vehicle assembly of claim 1, wherein the disengagement mechanism comprises the one or more manipulator arms, the one or more manipulator arms being configured to move the unmanned ground vehicle relative to the unmanned aerial vehicle. 20. A method comprising: with an unmanned aerial vehicle of an assembly, lifting an unmanned ground vehicle of the assembly off a ground, wherein the unmanned aerial vehicle is integrated with the unmanned ground vehicle, the assembly further comprising: a power unit shared by the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle; vehicle controls shared by the unmanned aerial vehicle and the unmanned ground vehicle; a disengagement mechanism to separate the unmanned ground vehicle from the unmanned aerial vehicle; and one or more manipulator arms located on either the unmanned aerial vehicle or the unmanned ground vehicle; and with the disengagement mechanism of the system, disengaging the unmanned ground vehicle from the unmanned aerial vehicle. 