"The present invention provides systems for: identifying pathogens in biological samples from humans and animals, resolving a plurality of etiologic agents present in samples obtained from humans and animals, determining detailed genetic information about such pathogens or etiologic agents, and rapid detection and identification of bioagents from environmental, clinical or other samples."
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: a) a nucleic acid amplification component for amplifying a nucleic acid from an unknown bioagent to generate an amplicon comprising said nucleic acid flanked by primer sequences; b) a base composition determination component comprising a computer processor configured to determine the number of, but not the nucleic acid gene sequence order of, A residues, C residues, T residues, G residues, U residues, analogs thereof and/or mass tag residues thereof of said amplicon; and c) a bioagent identification component comprising a computer processor and a database comprising a plurality of base compositions of nucleic acid amplicons of known bioagents delineated by said primer sequences wherein said base compositions identify the number of, but not the nucleic acid gene sequence order of, A residues, C residues, T residues, G residues, U residues, analogs thereof and/or mass tag residues thereof and wherein said known bioagents comprise at least one bacterium and at least one virus, wherein said base composition identification component is configured to compare the base composition of the amplicon from the unknown bioagent with a said database of base compositions from known bioagents to identify the unknown bioagent. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a nucleic acid purification component. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said nucleic acid purification component comprises one or more buffer manipulations, one or more salt manipulations, one or more thermal manipulations, one or more pH manipulations, one or more mechanical manipulations, one or more centrifugation manipulations, or one or more magnetic manipulations. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid amplification component comprises a thermocycler. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid amplification component comprises one or more salts, one or more buffers, one or more purified oligonucleotide primers, one or more dNTPs, or one or more enzymes. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said base composition identification component comprises a mass spectrometer. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said mass spectrometer is an ESI mass spectrometer. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a computer program on a computer readable medium configured to direct said processor to coordinate the operation of said nucleic acid amplification component, said base composition determination component, and said base composition identification component. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said processor is configured to process mass spectrometry data to base composition data. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 10 base compositions. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 20 base compositions. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 30 base compositions. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 40 base compositions. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 50 base compositions. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 60 base compositions. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 70 base compositions. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 80 base compositions. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 90 base compositions. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 100 base compositions. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 500 base compositions. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein said database of base compositions comprises at least 1000 base compositions. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of bioagents comprises bioagents that differ by genus, species, sub-species, strain, sub-type or nucleotide polymorphism. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of bioagents comprises one or more fungal bioagents, one or more protozoal bioagents, one or more parasitic bioagents, one or more mammalian bioagents, or one or more human bioagents. 