A system that includes: (a) a mask manipulator, that is arranged to: receive an opaque EUV pod that encloses an EUV mask, extract, in a highly clean environment, the EUV mask from the outer pod and the inner pod of the EUV pod, and cover an upper face of the EUV mask with protective cover that is at least partially transparent to DUV radiation; (b) a scanner, arranged to scan the EUV mask, using DUV illumination while maintaining in the scanner an environment that has a cleanliness level that is below a tolerable EUV mask cleanliness level; and (c) a transport system arranged to transport the EUV mask and the protective cover between the scanner and the mask manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: a mask manipulator arranged to: receive an extreme ultra violet (EUV) pod that encloses an EUV mask, the EUV pod comprising an inner pod that is placed inside an outer pod, wherein the EUV pod is opaque to deep ultra violet (DUV) radiation; extract, in a highly clean environment, the EUV mask from the outer pod and the inner pod; and cover, in the highly clean environment, an upper face of the EUV mask with a protective cover that is at least partially transparent to DUV radiation; a scanner arranged to scan the EUV mask using DUV illumination provided by an optical DUV illuminator, while maintaining in the scanner an environment that has a cleanliness level that is below a tolerable EUV mask cleanliness level; and a transport system arranged to transport the EUV mask and the protective cover between the scanner and the mask manipulator, wherein the tolerable EUV mask cleanliness level does not exceed a cleanliness level of the highly clean environment. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mask manipulator is external to an inspection system that comprises the scanner and the optical DUV illuminator, wherein the mask manipulator is further arranged to enclose the EUV mask in a pod that comprises the protective cover, wherein the pod maintains at least the tolerable EUV mask cleanliness level. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mask manipulator is further arranged to remove the protective cover from the EUV mask and place the EUV mask in the EUV pod, and wherein the transport system is further arranged to move the EUV pod between the mask manipulator and a load port. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mask manipulator is further arranged to attach the protective cover to the EUV mask while the EUV mask is substantially vertical. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mask manipulator is further adapted to enclose the EUV mask in a pod that comprises the protective cover, an opening and a filter, wherein the filter is arranged to filter air that enters the opening and wherein the opening prevents the pod from hermetically sealing the EUV mask. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mask manipulator is further adapted to enclose at least a lower face of the EUV mask with a low outgassing cover. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the mask manipulator is configured to flip the inner pod prior to a removal of the EUV mask from the inner pod. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the protective cover is a pellicle protective cover. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the EUV pod is compliant with an EUV pod standard. 10. A method for inspecting an extreme ultra violet (EUV) mask by a deep ultra violet (DUV) inspection system, the method comprising: receiving an EUV pod that encloses the EUV mask, the EUV pod comprising an inner pod that is placed inside an outer pod, wherein the EUV pod is opaque to deep ultra violet (DUV) radiation; extracting, in a highly clean environment, the EUV mask from the outer pod and the inner pod; and covering, in the highly clean environment, an upper face of the EUV mask with a protective cover that is at least partially transparent to DUV radiation thereby allowing the EUV mask to be scanned by DUV radiation while maintaining a cleanliness level that is below a tolerable EUV mask cleanliness level, wherein the tolerable EUV mask cleanliness level does not exceed a cleanliness level of the highly clean environment. 11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising inspecting the EUV mask by scanning the EUV mask using DUV illumination and collecting DUV radiation resulting from the scanning. 12. The method according to claim 10, further comprising enclosing, within the highly clean environment, the EUV mask in a pod that comprises the protective cover, wherein the pod maintains a highly clean environment. 13. The method according to claim 10, further comprising removing, in the highly clean environment, the protective cover from the EUV mask; placing, in the highly clean environment, the EUV mask in the EUV pod; and moving the EUV pod to a load port. 14. The method according to claim 10, further comprising attaching the protective cover to the EUV mask while the EUV mask is substantially vertical. 15. The method according to claim 10, further comprising enclosing the EUV mask in a pod that comprises the protective cover, an opening and a filter, wherein the filter is arranged to filter air that enters the opening and wherein the opening prevents the pod from hermetically sealing the EUV mask. 16. The method according to claim 10, further comprising enclosing at least a lower face of the EUV mask with a low outgassing cover. 17. The method according to claim 10, further comprising flipping the inner pod prior to a removal of the EUV mask from the inner pod. 18. The method according to claim 10, wherein the protective cover is a pellicle protective cover. 19. The method according to claim 10, wherein the EUV pod is compliant with an EUV pod standard. 