The mechanical differential actuator according to the present invention comprises a mechanical differential having three mechanicals ports. A first transducer with a low impedance is coupled to a first port, a second transducer with a high impedance is coupled to a second port, and the mechanical load is coupled to the third port. The mechanical differential actuator enables controlling a force and a speed at a load coupled thereto through a known relation between the force and the speed. Moreover, the mechanical differential actuator presents a compact structure enabling the transfer of a large force relative to its volume.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanical differential actuator for interacting with a mechanical load comprising: a first transducer; a second transducer; and a mechanical differential having three interaction ports, including a first interaction port coupled to the first transducer, a second interaction port coupled to the second transducer, and a third interaction port coupled to the load; wherein: the mechanical differential actuator is characterized by an equivalent impedance Z.sub.eq; the first transducer is characterized by a first mechanical impedance Z.sub.1; the second transducer is characterized by a second mechanical impedance Z.sub.2; and the second mechanical impedance Z.sub.2is sufficiently large compared to the first mechanical impedance Z.sub.1 that the second mechanical impedance Z.sub.2 does not influence significantly the equivalent mechanical impedance Z.sub.eq of the mechanical differential actuator. 2. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein: the mechanical differential is characterized by a force amplification factor K ; and (K+1).sup.2Z.sub.2>>Z.sub.1. 3. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 2, wherein: .apprxeq..times. ##EQU00007## 4. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the first transducer comprise a source of force. 5. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 4, wherein the first transducer comprises a controller of the source of force. 6. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 4, wherein the source of force comprises an element selected from the group consisting of a magneto-rheological damper, an electro-rheological damper, a magnetic particle brake, a magnetic brake based on a hysteresis effect, a stack of piezoelectric actuators acting on friction plates, a mechanism acting as a variable stiffness spring and a direct electromechanical transducer controlled with a feedback of movement state variables of the first transducer. 7. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 4, wherein the source of force comprises an element selected from the group consisting of a force-controlled direct drive electromechanical transducer and a force-controlled pneumatic transducer. 8. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 4, wherein the first transducer comprises a variable and a controllable impedance element in parallel with the source of force. 9. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 8, wherein the first transducer is integrated around the stator. 10. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the second transducer comprises a source of speed. 11. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 10, wherein the second transducer comprises a controller of the source of speed. 12. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 10, wherein the source of speed comprises an element selected from the group consisting of a hydraulic transducer, a direct drive electromechanical transducer having a feedback speed controller, and an ultrasonic actuator. 13. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the mechanical differential comprises a first speed reducer mechanism for implementing a mechanical differential function, the first transducer being coupled to the first speed reducer. 14. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 13, wherein the speed reducer mechanism comprises an element selected from the group consisting of a standard gearbox, a planetary gearbox, a cycloidal gearbox, a harmonic drive, a bar mechanism and a cable mechanism. 15. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 13, wherein the mechanical differential comprises a second speed reducer mechanism for implementing a mechanical differential function, the second transducer being coupled to the second speed reducer. 16. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 15, wherein the second speed reducer mechanism comprises an element selected from the group consisting of a standard gearbox, a planetary gearbox, a cycloidal gearbox, a harmonic drive, a bar mechanism and a cable mechanism. 17. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the mechanical differential comprises microelectromechanical systems. 18. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the first impedance is constant. 19. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 18, wherein the first transducer comprises a passive mechanical element. 20. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 19, wherein the passive mechanical element is selected from the group consisting of a passive mechanical spring, a passive mechanical damper, and a passive mechanical inertia. 21. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the second transducer comprises a rotor, the first transducer comprises a moving end and is integrated inside the rotor, and the mechanical differential comprises a harmonic drive itself comprising: a flexible spline connected to the moving end of the first transducer; a wave generator connected to the rotor of the second transducer; and a circular spline acting as the third interaction port. 22. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the second transducer comprises a rotor and a stator, the first transducer comprises a moving end and is integrated around the stator, and the mechanical differential comprises a harmonic drive itself comprising: a flexible spline connected to the moving end of the first transducer; a wave generator connected to the rotor of the second transducer; and a circular spline acting as the third interaction port. 23. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the mechanical differential comprises a speed reducer mechanism for implementing a mechanical differential function, the first and second transducers being coupled to the speed reducer. 24. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 23, wherein the speed reducer mechanism comprises an element selected from the group consisting of a standard gearbox, a planetary gearbox, a cycloidal gearbox, a harmonic drive, a bar mechanism and a cable mechanism. 25. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 1, wherein the differential comprises a first and second speed reducers, wherein both speed reducers are implemented using similar physical components. 26. A method of actuating a mechanical load comprising: providing a mechanical differential having three interaction ports; providing a first transducer; providing a second transducer; coupling the first transducer to a first interaction port of the mechanical differential; coupling the second transducer to a second interaction port of the mechanical differential; coupling the load to a third interaction port of the mechanical differential; characterizing the first transducer by a first mechanical impedance Z.sub.1; characterizing the second transducer by a second mechanical impedance Z.sub.2; characterizing the mechanical differential actuator by an equivalent mechanical impedance Z.sub.eq; and choosing the second mechanical Z.sub.2 impedance sufficiently large compared to the first mechanical impedance Z.sub.1 so that the second mechanical impedance Z.sub.2 does not influence significantly the equivalent mechanical impedance Z.sub.eq of the mechanical differential actuator. 27. A method of actuating a mechanical load as recited in claim 26, wherein: the mechanical differential is characterized by a force amplification factor K ; and (K+1).sup.2Z.sub.2>>Z.sub.1. 28. A method of actuating a mechanical load as recited in claim 27, wherein: .apprxeq..times. ##EQU00008## 29. A method of actuating a mechanical load as recited in claim 26, wherein the first transducer comprises a source of force. 30. A method of actuating a mechanical load as recited in claim 26, wherein the second transducer comprises a source of speed. 31. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 26, wherein the differential comprises a first and second speed reducers, and wherein said method further comprises: coupling the first transducer to the first speed reducer; coupling the second transducer to both the first and second speed reducers; and coupling the load to one of the second speed reducer. 32. A mechanical differential actuator as recited in claim 26, comprising: maintaining the first impedance constant. 33. A method of actuating a mechanical load as recited in claim 32, further comprising: integrating the first transducer inside the rotor. 34. A method of actuating a mechanical load as recited in claim 32, comprising: integrating the first transducer around the stator. 35. A method of actuating a mechanical load as recited in claim 26, wherein the first transducer comprises a moving end, the second transducer comprises a rotor, the mechanical differential comprises a harmonic drive including a wave generator, a flexible spline and a circular spline, and wherein said method further comprises: connecting the flexible spline to the moving end of the first transducer; connecting the rotor to the wave generator; and using a circular spline as the third interaction port. 