In a "tip following" robotic arm, the apertures through which control cables pass are arranged to ensure that the cables are maintained in contact with at least a part of the aperture, leading to a more stable and controllable arrangement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm comprising: a first link and a second link positioned adjacent to each other to form a portion of the robotic arm, said first link and said second link having a first and a second aperture respectively extending therethrough, the first aperture and the second aperture each have a first side and a second side; at least one cable extending through the first and the second aperture, wherein said cable has a smaller diameter than said first aperture and said second aperture so that the cable can be fed through the apertures; said first aperture is offset from said second aperture such that said cable contacts only the first side of said first aperture and said cable contacts only the second side of said second aperture, wherein said first side is positioned substantially opposite to said second side. 2. The robotic arm according to claim 1 comprising a material that reduces a coefficient of friction between said first aperture and said cable, wherein the material is provided either on the aperture or on the cable. 3. The robotic arm according to claim 1 further comprising an elastomer positioned between said first link and said second link. 4. The robotic arm according to claim 1 further comprising a third link positioned adjacent to said second link, said third link having a third aperture through which said cable passes, wherein said cable remains in contact with only a first side of the third aperture. 5. The robotic arm according to claim 1 wherein said first aperture and said second aperture are offset with respect to each other, either in the radial or in the circumferential direction. 6. The robotic arm according to claim 1 wherein said boundary of each aperture comprises a bearing. 7. The robotic arm according to claim 1 further comprising an actuator associated with said cable for producing movement of the cable, and a control system arranged to operate the actuator to control a position of the arm. 8. The robotic arm according to claim 7 wherein said control system is arranged to produce oscillating movement of cables, for reducing frictional adherence between said cable and said aperture. 9. The robotic arm according to claim 8 wherein said control system produces circumferential or rotational movement of the cable. 10. A robotic arm having an axis, comprising: a first link and a second link positioned adjacent to each other to form a portion of the robotic arm, said first link and said second link having a first and a second aperture respectively extending therethrough; at least one cable extending through the first and the second aperture, wherein said cable has a smaller diameter than said first aperture and said second aperture so that the cable can be fed through the apertures; said first aperture having a central longitudinal axis that is inclined with respect to the axis of the arm and said second aperture also having a central longitudinal axis that is inclined with respect to the axis of the arm. 11. The robotic arm according to claim 10 wherein the central longitudinal axis of said first aperture and the central longitudinal axis of said second aperture are inclined in alternately opposite directions. 12. The robotic arm according to claim 10 comprising a material that reduces a coefficient of friction between said first aperture and said cable, wherein the material is provided either on the aperture or on the cable. 13. The robotic arm according to claim 10 further comprising an elastomer positioned between said first link and said second link. 14. The robotic arm according to claim 10 further comprising an actuator associated with said cable for producing movement of the cable, and a control system arranged to operate the actuator to control a position of the arm. 15. The robotic arm according to claim 14 wherein said control system is arranged to produce oscillating movement of cables, for reducing frictional adherence between said cable and said aperture. 16. The robotic arm according to claim 15 wherein said control system produces circumferential or rotational movement of the cable. 