An apparatus and method for automatically aliquotting liquids, such as blood serum, is described. The invention provides a completely automatic, clean, self-contained system for collecting and aliquotting liquids and simultaneously cleaning the aliquotting system. The system includes a serum loading station, a sensing station, an indexing table for advancing test tubes to a collection station, an aliquotting station and a wash station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automatically withdrawing liquid from a series of test tubes, wherein the test tubes have a closed end and a open end, the open end being sealed by a self-sealing cap, the test tubes being further positioned in a substantially inverted vertical posture such that the open end is situated at the bottom of the test tubes, comprising: a. a loading station adapted to receive the inverted test tubes containing the liquid to be withdrawn; b. a liquid sample collection station for withdrawing the liquid from the test tubes, the collection station comprising: i. a horizontally-disposed index table adapted to receive the test tubes from the loading station and position the test tubes for liquid withdrawal; and ii. sample collection devices positioned under the index table, the sample collection devices being adapted to withdraw the liquid from the test tubes, wherein the sample collection devices include a vertically positioned tubular liquid withdrawing and dispensing needle having a distal and a proximal end, wherein the distal end includes an orifice adapted to penetrate the cap of the test tube, and a liquid collection chamber attached to the needle, the liquid holding chamber being adapted to receive the liquid from the test tubes; and c. vacuum means connected to the sample collection devices for withdrawing the liquid from the test tubes to the liquid collection chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the test tubes contain separator wax and the liquid is blood serum from whole blood which has been centrifuged to produce separation of the blood into plasma and serum and wherein the plasma and serum are separated by the separator wax. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the loading system comprises an endless conveyor system which automatically conveys the test tubes to the liquid sample collection station. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a wash station for cleaning sample collection devices after the liquid is ejected therefrom. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the collection station further comprises means to elevate the end of the needle orifice to penetrate the cap of the inverted test tube to remove substantially all of the liquid from the test tube. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising an air cylinder to elevate the end of the needle orifice. 7. An apparatus for automatically withdrawing liquid from a series of test tubes, wherein the test tubes have a closed end and a open end, the open end being sealed by a self-sealing cap, the test tubes being further positioned in a substantially inverted vertical posture such that the open end is situated at the bottom of the test tubes, comprising: a. a loading station adapted to receive the inverted test tubes containing the liquid to be withdrawn; b. a liquid sample collection station for withdrawing the liquid from the test tubes, the collection station comprising: i. a horizontally-disposed index table adapted to receive the test tubes from the loading station and position the test tubes for liquid withdrawal; and ii. a horizontally-disposed index table adapted to receive the test tubes from the loading station and position the test tubes for liquid withdrawal; and ii. sample collection devices positioned under the index table, the sample collection devices being adapted to withdraw the liquid from the test tubes, wherein the sample collection devices include a vertically positioned tubular liquid withdrawing and dispensing needle having a distal and a proximal end, wherein the distal end includes an orifice adapted to penetrate the cap of the test tube, and a liquid collection chamber attached to the needle, the liquid holding chamber being adapted to receive the liquid from the test tubes; iii. a rotatable tooling bar adapted to hold at least one sample collection device, a rotary actuator device adapted to rotate the tooling bar approximately 180.degree. when the liquid is in the liquid collection chamber, means to eject the liquid from the sample collection device, and a receiving tube for receiving the liquid from the sample collection device; and c. vacuum means connected to the sample collection devices for withdrawing the liquid from the test tubes to the liquid collection chamber. 8. An apparatus for automatically withdrawing liquid from a series of test tubes, wherein the test tubes have a closed end and a open end, the open end being sealed by a self-sealing cap, the test tubes being further positioned in a substantially inverted vertical posture such that the open end is situated at the bottom of the test tubes, comprising: a. a loading station adapted to receive the inverted test tubes containing the liquid to be withdrawn; b. a liquid sample collection station for withdrawing the liquid from the test tubes, the collection station comprising: i. a horizontally-disposed index table adapted to receive the test tubes from the loading station and position the test tubes for liquid withdrawal; and ii. a horizontally-disposed index table adapted to receive the test tubes from the loading station and position the test tubes for liquid withdrawal; and ii. sample collection devices positioned under the index table, the sample collection devices being adapted to withdraw the liquid from the test tubes, wherein the sample collection devices include a vertically positioned tubular liquid withdrawing and dispensing needle having a distal and a proximal end, wherein the distal end includes an orifice adapted to penetrate the cap of the test tube, and a liquid collection chamber attached to the needle, the liquid holding chamber being adapted to receive the liquid from the test tubes; c. vacuum means connected to the sample collection devices for withdrawing the liquid from the test tubes to the liquid collection chamber; and d. a sensing station adapted to identify accepted or rejected test tubes, wherein the sensing station comprises: i. a size sense station adapted to identify the size of the test tubes. ii. a bar identifier station to identify the test tubes; iii. a level sense station to determine the level of the liquid in the test tubes; and iv. means connected to the size sense station, bar code identifier station and level sense station to compare the quantity of the liquid in the test tube to a predetermined quantity of liquid required to accept the test tube. 