Removable shutter apparatus for a deposition or etching apparatus including a shuttering mechanism disposed within a processing chamber and adapted to carry a shutter plate between a retracted position and an extended position wherein it is engaged by a lifting assembly and moved into position closing the normal plating aperture as if it were a substrate to be processed. When a new product substrate is presented for processing, the lifting assembly will lower the shutter plate back onto the shuttering mechanism and it will be moved to its retracted position out of the way of the normal handling and processing operation. Because the shutter plate is geometrically similar to the product substrate and is handled by the same lift assembly, the same robotic shuttling mechanism used to transport product substrates into and out of the chamber may be used to periodically remove and replace a used shutter plate with a new plate without shutting down the system. An important advantage of the present invention is that the shutter closes, and thus "shadows", exactly the same processing aperture closed by the substrate during its processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a processing system including a processing chamber or subchamber having an opening into which a substrate having a surface to be coated or otherwise treated may be disposed, lift means for moving the substrate into and then out of said opening, and shutter means for temporarily blocking said opening during the time that a processed substrate is being removed and replaced by an unprocessed substrate, an improved shutter means, comprising: a shutter plate having certain physical characteristics substantially similar to those of a substrate to be processed; and shutter plate transport means operative to transport said shutter plate between a first position alighted with said lift means where said shutter plate can be engaged by said lift means, lifted from said transport means and moved into said opening in place of a substrate, and a second position retracted from said first position. 2. In a processing system as recited in claim 1 wherein said substrate is a substantially circular semiconductive wafer and said shutter plate is a substantially circular plate having a circumferential size and configuration substantially identical to that of said wafer. 3. In a processing system as recited in claim 2 wherein said transport means includes a pivotally mounted plateform for holding said shutter plate, and drive means for causing said platform to rotate about a pivot axis in transporting said shutter plate between said first position and said second position. 4. In a processing system as recited in claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein said system further includes means for carrying said substrate into alignment with said means for moving whereby a substrate to be processed can be loaded onto said means for moving and a processed substrate can be off-loaded onto said means for carrying for removal from said chamber. 5. In a processing system as recited in claim 4 wherein said shutter plate transport means is also operative to position said shutter plate in alignment with said means for carrying so that said means for carrying may additionally be used to remove a used shutter plate from the chamber and to replace it with a different shutter plate. 6. In a processing system as recited in claim 1 wherein said transport means includes a pivotally mounted platform for holding said shutter plate, and drive means for causing said platform to rotate about a pivot axis in moving said shutter plate between said first position and said second position. 7. A semiconductor wafer processing system comprising: means forming a processing chamber having an opening for receiving a semiconductor wafer to be processed; lift means for moving a wafer to be processed along a path between a first position and a second position within said opening; and shutter means including a shutter plate and a transport means for transporting said shutter plate between a position in alignment with said path and a position retracted therefrom, whereby when said wafer is not disposed within said opening, said shutter plate may be engaged by said lift means, removed from said transport means and moved into the position within sad opening normally occupied by said wafer. 8. A semiconductor wafer processing system as recited in claim 7 wherein said transport means includes a pivotally mounted platform for holding said shutter plate, and drive means for causing said platform to rotate about a pivot axis in moving said shutter plate between said position in alignment and its retracted position. 9. A semiconductor wafer processing system as recited in claim 7 or 8 and further comprising means for carrying a wafer into alignment with said lift means whereby a wafer to be processed can be off-loaded from said means for carrying and loaded onto said lift means for movement into said opening, and a processed wafer can be off-loaded from said lift means and loaded onto said means for carrying for removal from said chamber. 10. A semiconductor wafer processing system as recited in claim 9 wherein said transport means is additionally operative to position said shutter plate in alignment with said means for carrying so that said means for carrying may be alternatively used to remove a used shutter plate from the chamber and to replace it with a different shutter plate. 