The universal data storage element presents a uniform form factor data storage element but enables the user to vary the contents to include a selection of media types or miniaturized drive elements used therein to provide variable data storage and/or recording characteristics. This enables the user to use multiple types of media in an automated library system or a manually operated media storage and retrieval system, since the form factor of all of the data storage elements contained therein is uniform. The use of the universal data storage element provides the capability of varying the data storage capabilities of the data storage element to be consistent with the data recording technique used therein. This capability enables the user to use a diversity of drive elements connected to the computer system without having to have a corresponding diversity in media element handling systems.
Claims We claim: 1. A data storage element capable of housing a plurality of types of data storage media, each said type of data storage media being of predefined form factor and requiring a corresponding media drive unit that accepts only the predefined form factor, said data storage element being inserted into an interface unit that extracts the data storage media from said data storage element for a media drive unit connected to the interface unit for reading/writing data on said data storage media, to enable the uniform handling in a data storage and retrieval system of a plurality of different types of data storage media, said data storage element comprising: exterior housing means, having predetermined exterior dimensions, to present uniform physical data storage element exterior dimensions to a data storage and retrieval system, and having an opening in one end thereof; data storage media, stored in said exterior housing, being one of said plurality of types of data storage media and having a predefined form factor, said form factor requiring the use of a media drive unit that is not necessarily directly compatible with said data storage element; carrier means, attached to the interior of said exterior housing means, for transporting said data storage media having predetermined form factor, in said exterior housing means to at least partially extract said data storage media from said exterior housing means through said opening when said data storage element is inserted into an interface unit that receives said data storage element and presents said one predetermined form factor data storage media to said media drive unit capable of accepting said predetermined form factor data storage media. 2. The data storage element of claim 1 wherein said carrier means includes: means, having first and second sides, for supporting said data storage media; a pair of guide means, each located on one of said sides of said supporting means and affixed to said interior of said exterior housing means for slidably guiding said supporting means between a first position, wherein said supporting means is located completely within said exterior housing means, and a second position, wherein said supporting means at least partially exits said exterior housing means through said opening. 3. The data storage element of claim 2 wherein said carrier means further includes: means, attached to said supporting means, for enabling the mechanical extraction of said supporting means from said exterior housing means through said opening. 4. The data storage element of claim 3 wherein said enabling means comprises: retrieval arm means having first and second ends, wherein said first end is connected to said supporting means and said second end is positioned proximate to said opening when said supporting means is located in said first position. 5. The data storage element of claim 4 wherein said enabling means further includes: means, attached to said second end of said retrieval arm means, for providing a point of connection for said mechanical extraction of said supporting means. 6. The data storage element of claim 2 wherein said data storage media comprises a magnetic tape cassette, said carrier means further includes: means for releasably retaining said magnetic tape cassette in a predetermined position on said supporting means. 7. The data storage element of claim 2 wherein said data storage media comprises a magnetic disk, said carrier means further includes: means for releasably retaining said magnetic disk in a predetermined position on said supporting means. 8. The data storage element of claim 2 wherein said data storage media comprises an optical disk, said carrier means further includes: means for releasably retaining said optical disk in a predetermined position on said supporting means. 9. The data storage element of claim 2 wherein said data storage media comprises a magnetic tape cartridge, said carrier means further includes: means for releasably retaining said magnetic tape cartridge in a predetermined position on said supporting means. 10. The data storage element of claim 2 wherein said data storage media comprises a solid state memory having a connector attached thereto, said carrier means further includes: means for affixing said connector to said carrier means. 11. The data storage element of claim 10 wherein said connector is partially extracted from said exterior housing means. 12. The data storage element of claim 2 wherein said data storage media comprises a miniaturized drive element having a connector attached thereto, said carrier means further includes: means for affixing said connector to said carrier means. 13. A data storage element capable of housing a plurality of types of data storage media, each said type of data storage media being of predestined form factor and requiring a corresponding media drive unit that accepts only the predestined form factor, said data storage element being inserted into an interface unit that extracts the data storage media from said data storage element for a media drive unit connected to the interface unit for reading/writing data on said data storage media, to enable the uniform handling of data storage media in a data storage and retrieval system, said data storage element comprising: exterior housing means, having predetermined exterior dimensions to present uniform physical data storage element exterior dimensions to said data storage and retrieval system, and having an opening in one end thereof; data storage media, stored in said exterior housing, being one of said plurality of types of data storage media and having a predestined form factor, said form factor requiring the use of a media drive unit that is not necessarily directly compatible with said data storage element; carrier means, attached to the interior of said exterior housing means, for transporting said data storage media having predetermined form factor in said exterior housing means between a first position, wherein said data storage media means is located completely within said exterior housing means, and a second position, wherein said data storage media means at least partially exits said exterior housing means through said opening including: means, having first and second sides, for supporting said data storage media, a pair of guide means, each located on one of said sides of said supporting means and affixed to the interior of said exterior housing means, for slidably guiding said supporting means between said first position and said second position, retrieval arm means having first and second ends, wherein said first end is connected to said supporting means and said second end is positioned proximate to said opening when said supporting means is located in said first position, means, attached to said second end of said retrieval arm means, for providing a point of connection for said mechanical extraction of said supporting means. 