An attaching or mounting tool (21) is used for fixing a heating coil (16) to an insulating material support (13). The heating coil (16) is inserted in slots (24) therein and are held in place by magnetic force. Resilient positioning devices (28) are provided in openings (26) in the tool (21) and into the same can be introduced the nose (36) of a clip fitting device (24), so that the heating coils can be fixed to the support (13) by means of clips.
Claims I claim: 1. Method for fixing at least one heating resistor to a support, made from heat resistant insulating material, by means of clips driven in to the support by means of a mechanical clip fitting device comprising the steps of: detachably fitting the heating resistor to the heating resistor guidance means of an attaching tool in a desired configuration, positioning the heating resistor together with the attaching tool relative to a surface of the support, fitting the clips to the support and then removing the attaching tool from the support, the heating resistor also being removed from the attaching tool. 2. Method according to claim 1, wherein a clip guidance means is provided along the heating resistor guidance means in the attaching tool. 3. Method according to claim 2, wherein the clip guidance means are made resilient for the passage of the clips. 4. Method according to claim 2, wherein following the fitting of the heating resistor the clip guidance means are movable between the heating coils. 5. Method according to claim 2, wherein at least one clip fitting device is moved to the clip guidance means of the attaching tool and at least one clip is introduced into the support through the clip guidance means. 6. Method according to claim 1, wherein the clips in each case engage over a heating resistor turn on the portion of the turn engaging on the support. 7. Method according to claims 1 or 2, wherein the detachable fitting of the heating resistor is at least assisted by means of a magnetic force. 8. Method according to claim 7, wherein the magnetic force is variable during the performance of the method. 9. Method according to claim 1, wherein the heating resistor is detachably fitted in guidance means formed by grooves of the attaching tool. 10. Method according to claim 9, wherein clip guidance means are provided in said guidance means. 11. Method according to claim 1, wherein the support is made from a microporous silicic acid-aerogel. 12. Method according to claim 1, wherein the clip fitting device is guided by an automatic industrial robot. 13. Apparatus for fixing at least one heating resistor to a support made from heat resistant insulating material by means of clips driven into the support by a mechanical clip fitting device, comprising an attaching tool for positioning the clip relative to the heating resistor, the attaching tool having heating resistor guidance means in the form of grooves for the detachable fitting of the heating resistor in its desired configuration to said tool. 14. Apparatus according to claims 13, wherein the attaching tool has a plurality of clip guidance means which guide the clips to be driven in. 15. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the clip guidance means have a resilient positioning device for the passage of the clips and defining a guidance channel for the clips. 16. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the clip guidance means are constructed for receiving, guiding and positioning a part of the clip fitting device (34). 17. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the clip guidance means form a portion of a firing channel through which the clips are moved by a drive of the clip fitting device. 18. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein magnetic components act in the vicinity of the heating resistor guidance means and the magnetic force thereof is variable. 