A robot is apt to climb along a trestle structure, particularly the trestle of a pole for high-voltage overhead electric lines, in order to carry work tools from the base to the top of the pole. The robot includes a main support body, at least one slide movable along the body, a first gripping hand carried by the body, a second gripping hand carried by the slide, arms for moving the gripping hands substantially perpendicular to the pole, each gripping hand being equipped with clamping fingers for gripping either an upright of the pole or a ledger of the trestle structure, and at least one position sensor associated with the body for acquiring position data concerning the configuration of either the pole or the trestle structure.
Claims I claim: 1. A climbing robot, movable along a trestle structure, particularly the trestle structure of a pole for high-voltage overhead electric lines, said pole having a plurality of angle bars forming uprights of changing inclination and also forming ledgers at varying mutual distances, said robot comprising: a main body; a main slide movable along the main body; a first gripping hand carried by the main body; a second gripping hand carried by the main slide; clamping finger means, attached to the first and second gripping hands, for gripping one of the plurality of angle bars forming the uprights and the ledgers; and at least one position sensor means, connected to the main body, for acquiring data about the changing inclination of the uprights and also about the varying mutual distances between the ledgers; whereby the robot climbs up and down over obstacles formed by the changing inclination of the uprights and by the varying mutual distances between the ledgers. 2. The robot, according to claim 1, further comprising: a dihedral bearing seat means, operatively connected with the clamping finger means, for engaging a corner of one of the plurality of angle bars. 3. The robot, according to claim 2, further comprising: a control piston means, arranged between the clamping finger means, for moving the dihedral bearing seat means into and out of engagement with the corner of one of the plurality of angle bars. 4. The robot, according to claim 3, further comprising: arm means, carried by the main slide, for drawing the second gripping hand close to and away from the main body. 5. The robot, according to claim 4, further comprising: a support core means, rotatably mounted in the main slide, for allowing the arm means to slide towards and away from the corner of one of the plurality of angle bars. 6. The robot, according to claim 5, wherein: said support core means also rotates the arm means. 7. The robot, according to claim 1, further comprising: a main guide means, formed in the main body, for allowing movement of the main slide therealong. 8. The robot, according to claim 7, further comprising: a secondary slide arranged adjacent to the main slide in the main body. 9. The robot, according to claim 8, further comprising: a secondary guide means, also formed in the main body, for allowing movement of the secondary slide therealong. 10. The robot, according to claim 9, wherein: said first gripping hand carried by the main body is mounted on the secondary slide. 11. The robot, according to claim 1, wherein: each of said clamping finger means has a hooked end. 12. The robot, according to claim 11, wherein: each of said clamping finger means also has a fixed couterfinger corresponding to each hooked end. 13. The robot, according to claim 12, wherein: each of said clamping finger means further has a rotatable support ring. 14. The robot, according to claim 12, wherein: said hooked end of each of the clamping finger means is extendible beyond the corresponding fixed counterfinger so as to engage one of the ledgers. 