An on-line process control neural network using data pointers allows the neural network to be easily configured to use data in a process control environment. The inputs, outputs, training inputs and errors can be retrieved and/or stored from any available data source without programming. The user of the neural network specifies data pointers indicating the particular computer system in which the data resides or will be stored; the type of data to be retrieved and/or stored; and the specific data value or storage location to be used. The data pointers include maximum, minimum, and maximum change limits, which can also serve as scaling limits for the neural network. Data pointers indicating time-dependent data, such as time averages, also include time boundary specifiers. The data pointers are entered by the user of the neural network using pop-up menus and by completing fields in a template. An historical database provides both a source of input data and a storage function for output and error data.
Claims I claim: 1. A computer neural network process control method adapted for predicting output data provided to a controller used to control a process for producing a product having at least one product property, the computer neural network process control method comprising the steps of: (1) configuring the neural network by specifying at least one specified interval, and by using data pointer(s) to individually specify at least one input, at least one output, and/or at least one training input; (2) training, either on-line or off-line, the neural network to produce a trained neural network; (3) at said at least one specified interval, predicting with said trained neural network second output data using second input data; and (4) controlling the process in accordance with said second output data. 2. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a data location. 3. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a data type. 4. The computer neural network process control method of claim 3, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a current value of a measurement. 5. The computer neural network process control method of claim 3, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying an historical value. 6. The computer neural network process control method of claim 3, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a time averaged value. 7. The computer neural network process control method of claim 3, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a setpoint value. 8. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a data item number. 9. The computer neural network process control method of claim 8, wherein said step of specifying a data item number further comprises a step of specifying a measurement number. 10. The computer neural network process control method of claim 8, wherein said step of specifying a data item number further comprises a step of specifying a control loop number. 11. The computer neural network process control method of claim 8, wherein said step of specifying a data item number further comprises a step of specifying a control loop tag name. 12. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying, for data which is time varying, an oldest time interval boundary. 13. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying, for data which is time varying, a newest time interval boundary. 14. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying, for data which is time varying, one specific point in time. 15. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of using a template. 16. The computer neural network process control method of claim 1, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a high limit value and/or a low limit value. 17. The computer neural network process control method of claim 16, wherein said step (2) of training and/or step (3) of predicting further comprise a step of scaling an input data in accordance with said high limit value and/or said low limit value. 18. The computer neural network process control method of claim 16, wherein said step (2) of training and/or step (3) of predicting further comprise a stem of clamping an output data in accordance with said high limit value and/or said low limit value. 19. The computer neural network process control method of claim 16, further comprising a step of disabling step (4) of the method when the value of an input, training input, or output is above said high limit value and/or below said low limit value. 20. A computer neural network process control method adapted for predicting output data provided to a controller used to control a process for producing a product having at least one product property, the computer neural network process control method comprising the steps of: (1) configuring the neural network by specifying at least one specified interval, and by using data pointer(s) to individually specify at least one input, at least one output, and/or at least one training input; and (2) training using said data pointer(s), either on-line or off-line, the neural network to produce a trained neural network comprising the substeps of: (a) retrieving at least one first training input data with an associated first timestamp indicating an associated first input data, (b) retrieving said associated first input data, (c) predicting a first output data using said associated first input data, (d) computing a first error data in accordance with said training input data and said first output data, and (e) training the neural network to produce said trained neural network in accordance with said first error data. 21. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, further comprising the steps of: at said at least one specified interval, predicting with said trained neural network second output data using second input data; and controlling the process in accordance with said second output data. 22. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a data location. 23. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a data type. 24. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a data item number. 25. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying, for data which is time varying, an oldest time interval boundary. 26. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying, for data which is time varying, a newest time interval boundary. 27. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying, for data which is time varying, one specific point in time. 28. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of using a template. 29. The computer neural network process control method of claim 20, wherein said step (1) of specifying using data pointers further comprises a step of specifying a high limit value and/or a low limit value. 30. The computer neural network process control method of claim 29, wherein said step (2) of training and/or step (3) of predicting further comprise a step of scaling an input data in accordance with said high limit value and/or said low limit value. 31. The computer neural network process control method of claim 29, wherein said step (2) of training and/or step (3) of predicting further comprise a step of clamping an output data in accordance with said high limit value and/or said low limit value. 32. The computer neural network process control method of claim 29, further comprising a step of disabling step (4) of the method when the value of an input, training input, or output is above said high limit value and/or below said low limit value. 33. A computer neural network process control system adapted for predicting output data provided to a controller used to control a process for producing a product having at least one product property, the computer neural network process control system comprising: (a) an historical database comprising, (1) storing means for storing a first training input data with an associated first timestamp, and for storing a first input data indicated by said associated first timestamp, and (2) retrieving means, responsive to said storing means, for retrieving said first training input data and said first input data indicated by said associated first timestamp; and (b) a neural network comprising, (1) a first data pointer and a second data pointer, (2) training means, responsive to said historical database, for training said neural network in accordance with said first training input data specified by said first data pointer and said first input data specified by said second data pointer to produce a trained neural network. 34. The computer neural network process control system of claim 33, further comprising sensor means, responsive to said historical database, for providing said first input data. 35. The computer neural network process control system of claim 34, further comprising clock means for providing an associated second timestamp to said historical database. 36. The computer neural network process control system of claim 33, wherein said first training input data includes data indicative of a past action of an human operator of the process. 37. The computer neural network process control system of claim 33, wherein said neural network comprises a software system adapted to run on a computer platform. 38. The computer neural network process control system of claim 33, further comprising output means for storing the output data in said historical database. 39. The computer neural network process control system of claim 33, wherein said first data pointer and said second data pointer are three-part pointers with additional qualifiers. 