A wafer cooling apparatus characterized by a chamber, a pedestal disposed within the chamber and a mechanism for lowering a semiconductor wafer onto an upper surface of the pedestal. The upper surface of the pedestal is grooved to allow gas trapped between the wafer and the pedestal surface to escape around the periphery of the wafer, thereby minimizing the tendency of the wafer to "skate" across the surface of the pedestal on a thin layer of gas. The method involves extending a number of pins through a grooved cooling surface of the pedestal to contact a wafer, and retracting the pins into the pedestal to lower the wafer to the cooling surface and to force gas trapped between the wafer and the pedestal into the grooves of the pedestal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer cooling apparatus, comprising: a chamber; a pedestal comprising a support body having a substantially planar wafer support surface exposed to said chamber, said wafer support surface being provided with a groove which is so configured and located as to form an open channel when said wafer is supported on said surface to permit the escape of gas trapped between said wafer and said surface as the wafer is lowered onto the surface to prevent skating; and a mechanism for lowering a wafer disposed within said chamber towards said wafer support surface of said support body, whereby said support body is adapted to remove heat from said wafer. 2. A wafer cooling apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a conduit for introducing a cooling gas into said chamber. 3. A wafer cooling apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said gas is substantially anhydrous and is introduced at substantially ambient pressures and temperatures. 4. A wafer cooling apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein said gas comprises hydrogen, helium or nitrogen. 5. A wafer cooling apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said mechanism for lowering a wafer comprises: at least three pins which retractably extend through said wafer support surface. 6. A wafer cooling apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said pedestal further comprises: a heat sink for actively removing heat from said body. 7. A wafer cooling apparatus as recited in claim 6, wherein said heat sink for actively removing heat from said body comprises: a conduit adapted to circulate a cooling fluid proximate to said body. 8. An anti-skating pedestal for wafers, comprising: a body having a substantially planar wafer support surface; and a fluid channel provided in said body which is so configured and located as to form an open channel when said wafer is supported on said surface to permit the escape of gas trapped between said wafer and said surface as the wafer is lowered onto the surface to prevent skating. 9. An anti-skating pedestal for was as recited in claim 8 wherein said fluid channel comprises: a plurality of grooves in said wafer support surface. 10. An anti-skating pedestal for wafers as recited in claim 9 wherein at least some of said grooves form a grid-like pattern. 11. An anti-skating pedestal for wafers as recited in claim 9 wherein at least some of said grooves radiate outwardly from an interior location of said wafer support area. 12. An anti-skating pedestal for wafers as recited in claim 8 wherein said body is made from a material which is a good thermal conductor. 13. An anti-skating pedestal for wafers as recited in claim 12 wherein said material comprises aluminum. 14. An anti-skating pedestal for wafers as recited in claim 12 further comprising: a heat sink for actively removing heat from said body. 15. An anti-skating pedestal for wafers as recited in claim 9 wherein said plurality of grooves have widths greater than about 0.02 inches. 16. A method for lowering a wafer onto a pedestal in a gaseous environment, comprising: positioning a wafer over a substantially planar, grooved surface of a pedestal; extending a plurality of pins through said surface to contact a bottom surface of said wafer; and retracting said plurality of pins into said pedestal to lower said wafer towards said surface, said grooved surface being so configured and located as to form an open channel when said wafer is supported on said surface to permit the escape of gas trapped between said wafer and said surface as the wafer is lowered onto the surface to prevent skating. 17. A method for lowering a wafer as recited in claim 16 wherein said plurality of pins comprise at least three pins. 18. A method for lowering a wafer as recited in claim 16 further comprising enclosing said wafer and said surface from the ambient environment. 19. A method for lowering a wafer as recited in claim 18 further comprising releasing a substantially anhydrous gas proximate to said wafer and said surface. 20. A method for cooling a wafer within a gaseous environment, comprising: extending a plurality of pins through a substantially planar, grooved surface of a pedestal made from a material having good thermal conductivity; contacting a semiconductor wafer with said plurality of pins; retracting said plurality of pins into said pedestal to lower said wafer towards said surface, said grooved surface being so configured and located as to form an open channel when said wafer is supported on said surface to permit the escape of gas trapped between said wafer and said surface as the wafer is lowered onto the surface to prevent skating, whereby said pedestal is adapted to remove heat from said wafer. 21. A method for cooling a wafer as recited in claim 20 further comprising enclosing said wafer and said surface from the ambient environment after contacting said wafer with said plurality of pins. 22. A method for cooling a wafer as recited in claim 21 further comprising releasing a substantially anhydrous gas proximate said wafer and said surface. 23. A method for cooling a wafer as recited in claim 20 further comprising the step of actively removing heat from said pedestal. 24. A method for cooling a wafer as recited in claim 20 wherein said wafer is lowered to said surface. 