A system for robot manipulator calibration by locating a physcial object by determining the position of the object relative to a sensor, which is attached to the manipulator. The sensor consists of a support member and at least three sensor members which are mounted to the support member and are arranged to make tangential contact with a curved surface, preferably a spherical surface, simultaneously at three spaced points on the surface, upon such contact the object is deemed to be "located". Tangential contact is accomplished by the use of light beams as sensors.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A sensor for locating a spherical object, comprising: a support member; light beam transmitting means attached to the support member and adapted to transmit at least three light beams in tangential contact with the spherical object; and light beam detecting means attached to the support member and adapted to detect the light beams following such contact. 2. An apparatus for locating a spherical object comprising: a housing configured to receive the object; and a light beam transmitter and a light beam receiver attached to the housing and configured to transmit and receive light beams; wherein three light beams transmitted from the transmitter are capable of simultaneous point contact with the surface of the object at three spaced points on the surface of the object. 3. A sensor for locating a physical object, comprising: a housing attachable to a robot manipulator arm; and at least three sensor members affixed to the housing for contacting the physical object, said sensor members being affixed in a configuration which identifies at least one trip point when the sensor members are in simultaneous contact with the physical object, wherein the trip point is identified by contacting the sensor membes with the physical object, said contact being tangential when said object has a continuous curved surface. 4. A sensor as recited in claim 3 additionally comprising control means for moving the housing toward the object. 5. The sensor recited in claim 3 wherein the sensor additionally comprises a switch which tells a responsive controller the spatial position of any object corresponding to the trip point. 6. The sensor recited in claim 3 wherein the sensor members are light beams. 