A liner for a closed carrier such as a sewer is pulled into place in a branch line by a cable which extends through the branch line into a main line and along the main line to an access point remote from the connection between branch and main. The branch-to-main connection is inaccessible to workers because of the small diameter of the carriers. The liner is pulled up to this connection by the cable and then cured in place thereafter the cable is removed and the liner trimmed as required. A robotic device having a cornering device mounted on it may be positioned in the main at the connection to facilitate movement of the cable around the corner from the lateral into the main.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of lining at least a selected portion of a first closed carrier such as a sewer lateral which makes a blind connection to a second closed carrier such as sewer main at a point remote from an access point to the sewer main so that the connection is therefore not readily accessible to a person, said method comprising the steps of: providing an access opening at the distal end of the selected portion of the first carrier, introducing a cable end into the distal end opening and guiding the cable through the first carrier, through the blind connection, into the second carrier and up through a point of access to the second carrier at a point remote from the connection, attaching a liner to the cable at the distal end access opening, and guiding the cable through the blind connection while pulling the liner with the cable through the lateral until the liner is positioned in the selected portion of the lateral. 2. The method of claim 1 including the step of positioning a cornering device in the second carrier adjacent the blind connection with the first carrier and the step of guiding the cable through the blind connection includes the step of guiding the cable with the cornering device. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of positioning a cornering device includes the step of attaching a roller to a maneuverable device and guiding the device through the second carrier to the connection with the first carrier. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of guiding the device includes the step of pulling the device with a cable that extends between two access points. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of guiding the device includes remotely guiding a self-propelled device. 6. An apparatus for use in pulling a liner into a portion of a first closed carrier such as a sewer which is accessible at one end of the portion to be lined and which terminates with a blind connection with and at an angle to a second carrier which is readily accessible only at a point remote from the connection between the two carriers, said apparatus comprising cornering means for guiding a cable around a corner formed at the blind, angled connection between the first carrier and the second carrier so as to enable the cable to extend through the first carrier and the blind connection and into the second carrier around the angle at the blind connection so as to pull a liner into the first carrier, remotely operable vehicle means, and means for mounting said cornering means to said vehicle means, said vehicle means being for moving within said second carrier to position the cornering means at said connection. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said cornering means includes a roller mounted to said vehicle. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said mounting means includes a pair of arms extending from on end of said vehicle means, said roller being mounted for rotation about an axis which extends between said arms. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 including a video camera mounted to said arms. 