A resistance welding gun which is adapted to prevent asymmetrical impacting of two or more metal sheets to be welded. The resistance welding gun includes a pair of rotatably connected arms, each of which has a corresponding working end and actuation end. An electrode tip is located at each working end to provide a pair of opposed welding electrodes, while a cylinder is attached to the actuation ends of the arms to provide rotation therebetween. Between the actuation ends there is provided an equalizing mechanism including a crank and a pair of linkages which serve to equalize the movement of the arms about their pivot. In cooperation with the pivot of the arms, the crank establishes a fixed or datum point at which the electrode tips of the resistance welding gun are targeted such that, when properly positioned on opposite sides of the metal sheets, the electrode tips contact the metal sheets substantially simultaneously and apply substantially equal forces to the opposite sides of the metal sheets. As a result, the equalizing mechanism substantially prevents unilateral contacting and asymmetrical impacting by the electrode tips on the metal sheets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding device for contacting opposite sides of a workpiece for welding said workpiece, said welding device comprising: a base; a pair of arms pivotably mounted to said base and positioned along side each other, each arm of said pair of arms having a working end; an electrode disposed at each said working end of each arm of said pair of arms; stroking means operatively engaged with said pair of arms for moving said working ends together and apart; means operatively engaged with said pair of arms for equalizing movement of said electrodes toward said workpiece and for equalizing pressure imposed by said electrodes on said opposite sides of said workpiece when said stroking means strokes said working ends together, said equalizing means comprising a pair of rotatably interconnected linkages mounted to said base and connected to said pair of arms and said pair of rotatably interconnected linkages further defining an axis of rotation intermediate between and normal to said pair of arms; and whereby said equalizing means substantially prevents unilateral contacting and asymmetric loading and impacting by said electrodes upon said workpiece while said electrodes are being moved into position by said stroking means. 2. The welding device of claim 1 wherein said pair of arms are pivotably connected at an intermediate point thereof. 3. The welding device of claim 1 wherein each arm of said pair of arms has an actuation end disposed opposite from said working end, said stroking means being attached to each of said actuation ends. 4. The welding device of claim 3 wherein said equalizing means is located between said actuation ends. 5. A welding device for contacting opposite sides of a workpiece for welding said workpiece, said welding device comprising: a base; a pair of arms pivotably mounted to said base and further pivotably connected at an intermediate point on each arm of said pair of arms, each arm of said pair of arms having a working end and an oppositely disposed actuation end, said pair of arms further being pivotably mounted to said base; an electrode disposed at said working end of each arm of said pair of arms; stroking means connected to said actuation ends for pivotably stroking said working ends together and apart; and means located between said pair of arms for equalizing movement of said electrodes toward said workpiece and for equalizing pressure imposed by said electrodes on said opposite sides of said workpiece when said stroking means strokes said working ends together, said equalizing means further comprising a pair of rotatably interconnected linkages attached to said base and connected to said pair of arms; whereby said equalizing means substantially prevents asymmetric loading and impacting by said electrodes upon said workpiece while said electrodes are rotated into position by said stroking means. 6. The welding device of claim 5 wherein said pair of rotatably interconnected linkages define an axis of rotation intermediate between and normal to said pair of arms. 7. The welding device of claim 5 wherein said equalizing means is located between said actuation ends. 8. The welding device of claim 5 wherein said stroking means is a cylinder pivotably attached to each said actuation ends. 9. A welding apparatus for positioning a pair of electrodes on opposite sides of a workpiece such that said pair of electrodes simultaneously contact and equally load said opposite sides of said workpiece, said welding apparatus comprising: a base; a pair of arms pivotably connected to said base at an intermediate point on each arm of said pair of arms, each arm of said pair of arms having a working end and an oppositely disposed actuation end, a corresponding one of said pair of electrodes being disposed at a corresponding one of said working ends; stroking means connected to said actuation ends for pivotably stroking said working ends together and apart; a crank rotatably attached to said base, said crank having an axis of rotation intermediate between and normal to said pair of arms; a pair of linkages attached to said crank, a first of said pair of linkages being pivotably attached to a first of said pair of arms and a second of said pair of linkages being pivotably attached to a second of said pair of arms, said pair of linkages causing substantially equal movement of said pair of electrodes toward said workpiece and equal pressure imposed by said pair of electrodes on said opposite sides of said workpiece when said stroking means strokes said working ends together; and whereby said pair of electrodes are positioned on opposite sides of said workpiece to properly position said pair of electrodes relative to said workpiece such that said pair of electrodes face and are equally spaced from a corresponding one of said opposite sides of said workpiece and such that said pair of linkages substantially promote symmetric loading and impacting by said pair of electrodes upon said workpiece while said pair of electrodes are being rotated into position by said stroking means. 