Apparatus for cleaning paint spray gun nozzles automatically includes a housing having separate cleaning and reservoir chambers separated by a dividing wall, and a cleaning spray head in the cleaning chamber for directing a spray of cleaning fluid at a nozzle in the chamber. A supply of cleaning fluid in the reservoir is connected to the cleaning spray head by a supply tube. The cleaning chamber has an entrance for receiving a spray gun nozzle, and a supply of gas under pressure is connected to the reservoir chamber automatically on detection of entry of a spray gun nozzle through the entrance, to urge cleaning fluid from the reservoir into the supply tube. A passageway is provided in the dividing wall for returning used cleaning fluid to the reservoir. The supply of gas to the reservoir is cut off automatically at the end of a cleaning cycle on removal of the cleaned nozzle from the chamber.
Claims I claim: 1. A cleaning apparatus for cleaning spray gun nozzles, comprising: a first, cleaning chamber having an entrance for receiving the nozzle of a spray gun into a cleaning position in said chamber; seal means at the entrance to said first chamber for sealing engagement with part of a spray gun when the nozzle of the spray gun projects into the first chamber; at least one cleaning spray head in said cleaning chamber directed at the cleaning position; a second, reservoir chamber for holding a supply of cleaning fluid; a first connecting passageway between the reservoir chamber and the cleaning head for delivery of cleaning fluid to the cleaning head; a gas supply line connected to the reservoir chamber for supplying gas under pressure to the reservoir chamber to force cleaning fluid from the reservoir chamber to the cleaning head; a valve in the supply line moveable between closed and open positions for controlling the connection of the gas supply to the reservoir chamber; an actuating arm associated with the valve and moveable between inoperative and operative positions to move the valve between the closed and open positions; and the actuating arm being positioned in the cleaning chamber adjacent the entrance and being moveable between the inoperative and operative positions in response to movement of a spray nozzle into the cleaning chamber. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, including at least one door for normally closing the entrance to said first cleaning chamber, and a spring urging said door into its closed position, said door being opened on urging of a spray nozzle through said entrance, and said actuating arm being operatively linked to said door for movement into said operative position on opening of said door and movement into said inoperative position on closing of said door. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said seal means comprises an annular seal member having a central opening of diameter less than the diameter of a spray gun air cap. 4. A cleaning apparatus for cleaning spray gun nozzles, comprising: a first, cleaning chamber having an entrance for receiving the nozzle of a spray gun into a cleaning position in said chamber; at least one cleaning spray head in said cleaning chamber directed at the cleaning position; a second, reservoir chamber for holding a supply of cleaning fluid; a first connecting passageway between the reservoir chamber and the cleaning head for delivery of cleaning fluid to the cleaning head; a gas supply line connected to the reservoir chamber for supplying gas under pressure to the reservoir chamber to force cleaning fluid from the reservoir chamber to the cleaning head; a valve in the supply line moveable between closed and open positions for controlling the connection of the gas supply to the reservoir chamber; an actuating arm associated with the valve and moveable between inoperative and operative positions to move the valve between the closed and open positions; the actuating arm being positioned in the cleaning chamber adjacent the entrance and being moveable between the inoperative and operative positions in response to movement of a spray nozzle into the cleaning chamber; and a second connecting passageway between said first and second chambers for returning spent cleaning fluid to the reservoir chamber at the end of a cleaning cycle, and valve means in said second connecting passageway for closing said passageway during a cleaning cycle. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 4, including filter means between said first and second chambers for filtering solid material from said spent cleaning fluid prior to return to said second chamber. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 4, including a single unitary housing having an internal dividing wall separating an upper part of said housing comprising said first chamber from a lower part of said housing comprising said second chamber, said dividing wall having an opening comprising said second passageway, and said valve means comprising a valve member in said second chamber for closing said opening when said chamber is pressurized, and biasing means for urging said valve member away from said opening when gas supply to said chamber is cut off. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein said housing has at least one removable end cap comprising one end wall of said housing. 8. An apparatus for automatically cleaning a spray nozzle, comprising: a first chamber having an entrance for entry of a spray nozzle only of a spray gun into a cleaning position in the chamber with the remainder of the spray gun projecting out of the chamber; a cleaning head in the first chamber for directing a spray of cleaning fluid at the cleaning position; a second chamber containing a supply of cleaning fluid; a first passageway connecting the supply of cleaning fluid in the second chamber to the cleaning head; a second passageway connecting the first chamber to the second chamber for re-cycling used cleaning material back to the second chamber; valve means for controlling the supply of cleaning fluid to the cleaning head; detector means adjacent said entrance for detecting movement of a spray nozzle through said entrance into the first chamber; and linking means for linking said detector means to said valve means for automatically opening said valve means to dispense fluid from said cleaning head on entry of a spray nozzle into said first chamber. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, including a gas supply line connected to said second chamber for supplying gas under pressure to said second chamber to force cleaning fluid out of said chamber and into the cleaning head, said valve means being located in said gas supply line. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said first and second chambers comprise separate upper and lower chambers of a single, unitary housing having a dividing wall separating said upper and lower chambers, said housing having at least one removable end cap comprising one end wall of said housing. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8, including filter means in the path of used cleaning fluid between the first and second chambers for filtering solid particles from used cleaning fluid. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein said filter means comprises a catch screen extending from said cleaning head to the peripheral wall of said first chamber. 13. An apparatus for automatically cleaning a spray nozzle, comprising: a first chamber having an entrance for entry of a spray nozzle into a cleaning position in the chamber; a cleaning head in the first chamber for directing a spray of cleaning fluid at the cleaning position; a second chamber containing a supply of cleaning fluid; a first passageway connecting the supply of cleaning fluid in the second chamber to the cleaning head; a second passageway connecting the first chamber to the second chamber for re-cycling used cleaning material back to the second chamber; valve means for controlling the supply of cleaning fluid to the cleaning head; detector means for detecting the entry of a spray nozzle into the first chamber; linking means for linking said detector means to said valve means for automatically opening said valve means to dispense fluid from said cleaning head on entry of a spray nozzle into said first chamber; and said detector means comprising barrier means for normally closing said entrance, said barrier means being moveable into an open position on urging of a spray gun nozzle through said entrance. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said linking means comprises an actuator arm secured to said barrier means and moveable on opening said barrier means between an inoperative position and an operative position urging said valve means into an open position. 15. An apparatus for automatically cleaning a spray nozzle, comprising: a first chamber having an entrance for entry of a spray nozzle into a cleaning position in the chamber; a cleaning head in the first chamber for directing a spray of cleaning fluid at the cleaning position; a second chamber containing a supply of cleaning fluid; a first passageway connecting the supply of cleaning fluid in the second chamber to the cleaning head; a second passageway connecting the first chamber to the second chamber for recycling used cleaning material back to the second chamber; valve means for controlling the supply of cleaning fluid to the cleaning head; detector means for detecting the entry of a spray nozzle into the first chamber; linking means for linking said detector means to said valve means for automatically opening said valve means to dispense fluid from said cleaning head on entry of a spray nozzle into said first chamber; and second valve means in said second passageway for closing said passageway when said first-mentioned valve means is open, and biassing means for urging said second valve means into an open position when said first-mentioned valve means is closed. 