A method and apparatus are disclosed for bonding a multi-panel device together by injecting a liquid adhesive into a flow channel created by a hem flange located along a perimeter of two contacting panels. The adhesive is then cured and thus forms a permanent bond between the panels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of securing two panels together to create a multi-panel device comprising the steps of: providing a first panel; providing a second panel shorter in length in at least one direction than the first panel; placing the second panel adjacent to the first panel; folding an edge portion of the first panel onto said second panel so that the edge portion engages in firm contact with a mating surface along an edge of the second panel thereby creating a sealed flow channel along a substantial length of the panels; thereafter, injecting an adhesive substance into the flow channel; and curing the adhesive to bond the two panels together. 2. The method of claim 1 which further comprises: forming an inlet passageway in the panels; and injecting the adhesive through the passageway into the flow channel. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the inlet passageway is formed by the steps of: creating a hole in one panel; creating a notch in another panel; and aligning the notch with the hole when the first panel is folded. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: cutting an edge portion of said first panel so that a continuous sealed flow channel is created around a perimeter of the panels upon folding an edge portion of the first panel onto said second panel. 5. A method of forming a multi-panel device comprising: providing an inner panel with a notch in an edge thereof; providing an outer panel with a hole near an edge thereof; placing the inner panel adjacent to the outer panel; bending the edge of the outer panel around the edge of the inner panel to come in firm contact with the inner panel in order to create a sealed longitudinal flow channel and to align the hole over the notch thereby defining an inlet passageway into the flow channel; thereafter, injecting an adhesive substance into the longitudinal flow channel through the inlet passageway; and curing the adhesive to bond the two panels together. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising forming a hem flange to create a flow channel substantially along the entire perimeter of both panels. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising constructing said inner and outer panels of steel. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the outer panel is a skin used on an exterior automotive part and the inner panel is a reinforcing member. 