A storage apparatus comprises a housing for defining a cryogenic storage unit and a plurality of low-temperature chambers disposed one next to the other, the housing including partitions for separating the chambers from one another. Temperature controls for controlling temperature independently in each of the chambers is operatively connected to each of the chambers. Each one of the chambers has access to at least one other chamber contiguous with the one chamber. Supports are provided for holding a plurality of specimens within each chamber. A conveyor or transfer mechanism is provided for transfering selected specimens between contiguous chambers, independently of other specimens in the housing. In addition, access is provided to the housing to enable deposition and removal of given specimens from the housing. A plurality of individually operable freezing/thawing units are also connected to the cryogenic unit for controlling the freezing and thawing of specimens or groups of specimens at different freezing and thawing rates. The durations of temporary specimen storage in the low-temperature chmabers and the rates of temperature change in the freezing/thawing chambers are controlled by a computer in accordance with pre-established freezing and heating protocols.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage apparatus comprising: housing means for defining a plurality of chambers disposed one next to the other, said housing means including partition means for separating said chambers from one another; temperature control means for controlling temperature independently in each of said chambers; first access means for enabling communication between each one of said chambers and at least one other of said chambers contiguous with said one of said chambers; support means for holding a plurality of specimens within each of said chambers; conveyance means for transfering selected specimens between contiguous ones of said chambers via said first access means, independently of other specimens in said housing means; and second access means for enabling deposition and removal of given specimens from said housing means. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising control means operatively connected to said conveyance means for activating said conveyance means to transfer said selected specimens between said contiguous chambers. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said control means includes means for tracking locations of specimens in said housing means. 4. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said control means includes timing means for triggering transfer of said selected specimens by said conveyance means at times in accordance with respective pre-established thawing protocols for said selected specimens. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said control means is preprogrammed with a plurality of thawing protocols in encoded form and includes means for automatically selecting from among said thawing protocols in accordance with specimen type. 6. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said control means includes timing means for triggering transfer of said selected specimens by said conveyance means at times in accordance with respective pre-established freezing protocols for said selected specimens. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said control means is preprogrammed with a plurality of freezing protocols in encoded form and includes means for automatically selecting from among said freezing protocols in accordance with specimen type. 8. The apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising selection means operatively connected to said control means for inputting data into said control means identifying said selected specimens. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said second access means is disposed at one of said chambers having a highest temperature among said chambers. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising closure means for providing a seal at said first access means to restrict movement of said coolants between said chambers. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10 wherein said closure means includes flexible sealing members disposed at locations between said chambers. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said conveyance means includes a revolving door. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said conveyance means includes a rail. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein one of said chambers constitutes storage means for maintaining a plurality of biological specimens within a predetermined low temperature range, further comprising: a plurality of freezing chambers; cooling means for implementing a temperature change in each of said freezing chambers independently of temperature changes in each other of said freezing chambers; servomechanism means for retrieving a predetermined specimen from a respective selected one of said freezing chambers and transfering the retrieved specimen to said storage means; and control means operatively connected to said cooling means and said servomechanism means for operating said cooling means to control a rate of temperature change in said selected one of said freezing chambers and for activating said servomechanism means to transfer said predetermined specimen from said selected one of said freezing chambers to said storage means. 15. The apparatus defined in claim 14 wherein said control means includes timing means for triggering retrieval of said predetermined specimen from said selected one of said freezing chambers at a time in accordance with a respective preestablished freezing protocol for said predetermined specimen. 16. The apparatus defined in claim 15 wherein said control means is preprogrammed with a plurality of freezing protocols in encoded form and includes means for automatically selecting from among said freezing protocols in accordance with specimen type. 17. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein one of said chambers constitutes storage means for maintaining a plurality of biological specimens within a predetermined low temperature range, further comprising: a plurality of thawing chambers; heating means for implementing a temperature change in each of said thawing chambers independently of temperature changes in each other of said thawing chambers; servomechanism means for retrieving a predetermined specimen from said storage means and transfering the retrieved specimen to a selected one of said thawing chambers; and control means operatively connected to said heating means and said servomechanism means for operating said heating means to control a rate of temperature change in said selected one of said thawing chambers and for activating said servomechanism means to transfer said predetermined specimen from said storage means to said selected one of said thawing chambers. 18. The apparatus defined in claim 17 wherein said control means includes timing means for triggering removal of said predetermined specimen from said selected one of said thawing chambers at a time in accordance with a respective preestablished thawing protocol for said predetermined specimen. 19. The apparatus defined in claim 18 wherein said control means is preprogrammed with a plurality of thawing protocols in encoded form and includes means for automatically selecting from among said thawing protocols in accordance with specimen type. 20. A method for storing a perishable specimen, comprising the steps of: (a) inserting the specimen in a first chamber having a first temperature; (b) maintaining said specimen for at least a first predetermined period in said first chamber; (c) automatically moving said specimen, upon termination of said first predetermined period from said first chamber to a second chamber having a second temperature; (d) maintaining said specimen for an indeterminate period in said second chamber; (e) subsequent to the termination of said indeterminate period, automatically moving said specimen from said second chamber back to said first chamber; (f) upon shifting of said specimen from said second chamber to said first chamber, maintaining said specimen for at least a second predetermined period in said first chamber; and (g) removing said specimen from said first chamber upon termination of said second predetermined period. 21. The method according to claim 20 wherein said first temperature is lower than room temperature and said second temperature is lower than said first temperature. 22. The method according to claim 21, further comprising the step of at least partially automatically determining said first predetermined period in accordance with a pre-established freezing protocol for said specimen. 23. The method according to claim 22, further comprising the step of at least partially automatically selecting said pre-established freezing protocol from a plurality of freezing protocols stored in encoded form in a computer memory, said step of automatically selecting from among said freezing protocols being implemented in accordance with specimen type. 24. The method according to claim 21, further comprising the step of at least partially automatically determining said second predetermined period in accordance with a pre-established thawing protocol for said specimen. 25. The method according to claim 24, further comprising the step of at least partially automatically selecting said pre-established thawing protocol from a plurality of thawing protocols stored in encoded form in a computer memory, said step of automatically selecting from among said thawing protocols being implemented in accordance with specimen type. 