The present invention is drawn to various aspects of automated excision of undesirable material (and optionally excision of bone) from meat, and automated production of starting material for restructured meat, including: (a) an apparatus and method generally drawn to, optical detection of the location of undesirable material in meat, communication of information regarding the location of the undesirable material to a control means, and excision of the undesirable material from the meat using a high pressure water jet controlled by the control means; (b) a bone location sensor and method of bone location sensing, each employing a plurality of needles, and; (c) a multiple blade slicer.
Claims We claim: 1. A multiple blade slicer comprising, a cutting table dimensioned and configured to retain material to be sliced; automatic clamping means, operatively associated with said cutting table, for securely clamping said material to be sliced with automatic adjustment to the shape of said material, while said material to be sliced is retained by said cutting table, wherein said clamping means includes, pivotally mounted twin hydraulic or pneumatic cylinders each operatively associated with a piston rod, a bar connected adjacent a first end thereof to both said piston rods, and two jaws, each pivotally mounted on an opposite side of a second end of said bar; and slicing means including a plurality of cutting blades for slicing said material to be sliced while it is retained by said cutting table and clamped by said automatic clamping means. 2. The multiple blade slicer of claim 1 including at least two said automatic clamping means, the twin cylinders thereof all being pivotally mounted to a common slide and said common slide is operatively associated with a housing for sliding with respect to said housing. 3. The multiple blade slicer of claim 1 wherein said plurality of blades are circular blades. 4. The multiple blade slicer of claim 1 wherein said plurality of blades are band saw blades. 5. The multiple blade slicer of claim 3 wherein said plurality of blades are carried by a cutting head which is connected to a hydraulic or pneumatic cylinder means for movement of said cutting head. 6. The multiple blade slicer of claim 1 further including, mechanical feeding means for automatically feeding said material to be sliced to said cutting table for slicing. 7. The multiple blade slicer of claim 4 wherein said plurality of blades are carried by a cutting head which is connected to a hydraulic or pneumatic cylinder means for movement of said cutting head. 