Reliability of an automated storage library is improved by mounting at least one CCD cameras on a turret plate with two grippers, wherein the CCD camera provides video support for both grippers. The turret plate is rotatably mounted on the end of an anthropomorphic robot arm such that the camera and each gripper is rotated and angled into position as needed for viewing or gripping, respectively. The CCD camera is positioned to view a tape cartridge for capturing an image of the label attached thereto. While the captured image is being processed to verify the VOLSER, the first gripper is rotated into position and moved forward to grip the desired tape cartridge. The robot arm them moves the camera and gripper assembly to a tape drive and rotates the second gripper into position to remove another tape cartridge from the tape drive. The turret plate is again rotated to position the first gripper for inserting the verified tape cartridge into the tape drive. Thus pick-before-place operations may be performed with a single camera and two grippers. A second camera can be added to increase reliability for pick-before-place. Additionally, if either gripper fails, a single camera and a single gripper in any combination will allow the automated storage library to continue to provide storage and retrieval functions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated storage and retrieval system having a gripper/vision assembly mounted on a robotic arm for viewing one of a plurality of articles, and gripping the article, said gripper/vision assembly providing improved reliability by operating a vision portion of the gripper/vision assembly independently of a gripper portion, comprising: a plate having a first surface rotatably attached to said robotic arm and a second surface, said plate rotatable through first, second, and third positions; first gripper means mounted on said second surface of said robotic arm for gripping one of a plurality of articles, said first position for enabling the first gripper means to grip a first article; second gripper means mounted on said second surface of said robotic arm for gripping one of a plurality of articles, said second position for enabling the second gripper means to grip the first article; and first vision means mounted on said second surface of said robotic arm, said first vision means for viewing one of a plurality of articles, said third position for enabling the first vision means to view the first article such that either of said first and second gripper means may grip the first article in response thereto. 2. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 1 wherein said plate is rotatable through a fourth position and further comprising a second vision means mounted on said second surface of said robotic arm, said second vision means for viewing one of a plurality of articles, said fourth position for enabling the second vision means to view the first article such that said first gripper means may grip the first article in response thereto and said second gripper means may grip the first article in response thereto. 3. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 2 wherein an article is outside the field of vision of both said first and second vision means during gripping by either one of said first and second gripping means. 4. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 3 wherein said plate mounted on said robotic arm is mounted to provide overload protection. 5. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 4 wherein said first and second vision means are adjustably mounted on the second surface of said plate. 6. The automated storage system according to claim 5 wherein said robotic arm is anthropomorphic. 7. The automated storage system according to claim 6 wherein said first and second gripper means are mounted across from one another, each first and second gripper means being biased in a normally closed position. 8. An automated storage and retrieval system for transporting articles between a plurality of locations within the storage and retrieval system, comprising: controlling means for issuing commands for transporting a first one of a plurality of articles; positioning means coupled to said controlling means for moving the first article from a first to a plurality of locations to a second of the plurality of locations; first vision means mounted on said positioning means for viewing the first article at the first location, said positioning means positioning said viewing means for capturing an image of the first article, wherein the first article is within a field of vision of said first vision means; first gripping means mounted on said positioning means for gripping the first article at the first location, said positioning means positioning said first gripping means such that while is gripped, the first article being outside the field of vision of said first vision means; and second gripping means mounted on said positioning means for gripping a second one of the plurality of articles at the second location, said positioning means positioning said second gripping means such that the second article is gripped, while being outside the field of vision of said first vision means, said positioning means repositioning said first gripping means for placing the first article at the second location. 9. The storage and retrieval system according to claim 9 further comprising a second vision means mounted on said positioning means, said second vision means for viewing one of the plurality of articles. 10. The storage and retrieval system according to claim 9 wherein said positioning means is a robot. 11. The storage and retrieval system according to claim 9 wherein said first and second vision means are first and second CCD cameras, respectively. 12. A method of transporting at least one of a plurality of articles between first and second locations, comprising the machine executed steps of: moving a gripper/vision assembly to the first location; positioning the gripper/vision assembly such that a first article is within a field of vision of a first camera; capturing an image of the first article, with the first camera; in response to said capturing, positioning the gripper/vision assembly such that a first gripper grips the first article while the first article is outside the field of vision of the first camera; moving the gripper/vision assembly to a second location; positioning the gripper/vision assembly such that a second gripper grips a second article; removing the second article from the second location; and positioning the gripper/vision assembly such that the first gripper places the first article in the second location. 13. An automated storage and retrieval system for performing pick-before-place operations, having a gripper/vision assembly mounted on an anthropomorphic robotic arm, wherein vision and gripper portions of said gripper/vision assembly function independently, comprising: a turret plate rotatably mounted on the anthropomorphic robotic arm; a first gripper mounted on said turret plate at a first location; a second gripper mounted on said turret plate at a second location, said first and second grippers being located such that said first gripper is for handling a first article while said second gripper grips a second article; and a first camera adjustably mounted on said turret plate at a third location rotationally between the first location and the second location such that said first camera may operate to view the first and second articles for said first and second grippers, said first camera and said first and second grippers providing the visual and gripping functions necessary to perform pick-before-place operations. 14. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 13 further comprising a second camera mounted on said turret plate at a fourth location rotationally between the first location and the second location, said second camera for viewing the first and second for said first and second grippers. 15. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 14 wherein said turret plate is springably mounted to said robotic arm with sensors provided for signaling an overload condition. 16. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 15 wherein said first location is rotationally positioned about said turret plate 180 degrees from the second location, 90 degrees from the third location, and 270 degrees from the fourth location. 17. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 16 wherein each said first and second cameras and each said first and second grippers are mounted on said turret plate at an angle less than 90 degrees. 18. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 17 wherein said first gripper is biased normally closed. 19. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 18 wherein said first camera further comprises a mounting assembly having pitch and yaw adjustments. 20. An automated cartridge library having a plurality of storage slots for storing cartridges therein, and having a plurality of drives for receiving the cartridges and reading data therefrom, the automated cartridge library having a processor for controlling storage and retrieval operations, the automated cartridge library for performing pick-before-place operations, comprising: a robot coupled to said processor for receiving commands for moving between the storage slots and the drives, the robot having an arm; a turret plate having a first face attached to the arm, the first face being attached such that overload protection is provided to said turret plate and arm, and said turret plate having a second face; a first gripper attached to the second face of said turret plate wherein said first gripper picks a cartridge from a storage cell when said turret plate is moved toward said storage slots and rotated to a first position, said first gripper inserting the picked cartridge into a drive when said turret plate is moved toward said drive and rotated to a second position; a second gripper mounted on the second face of said turret plate such that said second gripper can remove another cartridge from a drive when said turret plate is moved toward said drive and rotated to a third position, and said second gripper can place another cartridge in a storage slot when said turret plate is moved toward said storage slots and rotated to a fourth position; and a first camera adjustably mounted on the second face of said turret plate rotationally between said first and second grippers, said first camera for viewing one of the cartridges prior to its being picked or removed by said first or second grippers. 21. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 20 further comprising a second camera adjustably mounted on the second face of said turret plate rotationally between said first and second grippers, said second camera for viewing one of the cartridges prior to its being picked by said first or second grippers. 22. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 21 further comprising first and second lamps mounted on said turret plate for providing illumination for said first and second cameras, respectively. 23. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 22 wherein said first gripper further comprises: a main body; a finger rigidly mounted on said main body; a thumb pivotally mounted on said main body and opposed to said finger; a spring mounted on said main body and contacting said thumb for biasing the thumb towards said finger in closed position; and a solenoid mounted on said main body and attached to said thumb to push the thumb away from said finger to an open position when the solenoid is energized. 24. The automated storage and retrieval system according to claim 23 wherein said first camera further comprises: a pitch base plate; a pitch plate flexibly mounted to said pitch base plate and adapted for holding said first camera and said first lamp; a first screw coupled between said pitch base plate and said pitch plate for adjusting the pitch of said first camera; a yaw plate rigidly mounted to said pitch base plate; a yaw base plate flexibly mounted to said yaw base plate and rigidly mounted to said turret plate; and a second screw coupled between said yaw plate and said yaw base plate for adjusting the yaw of said first camera. 