A motion device with three legs provides six degrees of freedom using a pair of motor assemblies (22) to drive each leg. Each leg has a differential drive (28, 30, 32, 40) for providing a pitch-roll joint connected to an elbow (16) for providing a pitch joint connected to a second roll joint (56) connected to a universal joint (62, 72). An actuated plate (10) is connected to the universal joint. All of the motors drive the differential drive from the base of the unit and do not add inertia to the actuated plate. The same kinematic arrangement can be used for hand controllers as well as for end effectors and other movable platforms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus transmitting movement in six degrees of freedom between a base plate and a top plate comprising: a plurality of legs, each having an elongated lower link coupled to the base, plate and an elongated upper link coupled to the top plate, the lower and the upper link being connected by an elbow having one degree of freedom about an axis perpendicular to the axes of elongation of the upper and lower links; a differential drive for each leg for coupling each leg lower link to the base plate; and a joint having three intersecting axes of rotation for each leg for coupling each leg upper link to the top plate. 2. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein the elbow comprises a clevis on one of the links and a clevis pin extending through the clevis and the other one of the links so that the clevis pivots about the clevis pin. 3. Apparatus of claim 2 wherein the clevis is on the upper link and the three axes joint comprises a shoulder pin extending through the clevis and the upper link along the axis of elongation of the upper link so that the upper link can rotate with respect to the clevis about the axis of the shoulder pin. 4. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein each differential drive comprises a link gear at the end of the lower link for rotating the lower link about its axis of elongation and a pair of drive gears on opposite sides of the link gear for rotating the link gear. 5. Apparatus of claim 4 wherein the drive gears are operable independently of each other in both the same and opposite directions. 6. Apparatus of claim 4 wherein the drive gears are each driven by an independent motor for manipulating the legs and thereby moving the top plate. 7. Apparatus of claim 6 wherein the motors comprise electromagnetic actuators. 8. Apparatus of claim 4 wherein the link gear comprises a bevel gear. 9. Apparatus of claim 8 wherein the drive gears comprise bevel gears which rotate about an axis normal to the base plate. 10. Apparatus of claim 9 wherein each differential drive comprises a pair of transfer gears for transmitting forces between the drive gears and the link gear, the transfer gears being double bevel gears which rotate about an axis perpendicular to the axis about which the drive gears rotate. 11. Apparatus of claim 10 wherein each differential drive comprises an elongated transfer gear axle extending along the axis of transfer gear rotation for supporting the transfer gears, the axle having a rotational bearing at each end for rotationally supporting the axle and a central bearing sleeve through which the lower link extends for rotationally supporting the lower link, and thereby permitting two degrees of freedom for the lower link at the differential drive. 12. Apparatus of claim 10 wherein each differential drive comprises an elongated transfer gear axle extending along the axis of transfer gear rotation for supporting the transfer gears, the axle having a rotational bearing at each end for rotationally supporting the axle and a central bearing sleeve through which the lower link extends for rotationally supporting the lower link, and thereby permitting two degrees of freedom for the lower link at the differential drive. 13. Apparatus transmitting movement in six degrees of freedom between a base plate and a top plate comprising: three legs, each having a lower link coupled to the lease plate and an upper link coupled to the top plate, the lower and the upper link being connected by an elbow having one degree of freedom about an axis perpendicular to the axes of the upper and lower links; a lower joint providing two rotational degrees of freedom for each leg for coupling each leg lower link to the base plate; and an upper joint having three intersecting axes of rotation providing two degrees of freedom for each leg for coupling each leg upper link to the top plate. 14. Apparatus of claim 13 wherein the lower joint provides pitch and roll with respect to the base plate. 15. Apparatus of claim 13 wherein the lower joint comprises a differential drive 16. Apparatus of claim 13 wherein the elbow comprises a clevis on one of the links and a clevis pin extending through the clevis and the other one of the links so that the clevis pivots about the clevis pin. 17. Apparatus of claim 16 wherein the clevis is on the upper link and the three-axes joint comprises a shoulder pin extending through the clevis and the upper link along the axis of elongation of the upper link so that the upper link can rotate with respect to the clevis about the axis of the shoulder pin. 18. Apparatus of claim 13 wherein each differential drive comprises a link gear at the end of the lower link for rotating the lower link about its axis of elongation and a pair of drive gears on opposite sides of the link gear for rotating the link gear. 19. Apparatus of claim 18 wherein the drive gears are operable independently of each other in both the same and opposite directions. 20. Apparatus of claim 19 wherein the drive gears are each driven by an independent motor for manipulating the legs and thereby moving the top plate. 21. Apparatus of claim 20 wherein the motors comprise electromagnetic actuators. 22. Apparatus of claim 18 wherein the link gear comprises a bevel gear. 23. Apparatus of claim 22 wherein the drive gears comprise bevel gears which rotate about an axis normal to the base plate. 24. Apparatus of claim 23 wherein each differential drive comprises a pair of transfer gears for transmitting forces between the drive gears and the link gear, the transfer gears being double bevel gears which rotate about an axis perpendicular to the axis about which the drive gears rotate. 25. In an end effector having a base plate and a plurality of legs extending from the base plate operating a top plate, a differential drive for transmitting movement in at least two degrees of freedom between the base plate and a leg comprising: a bevel link gear at the end of the leg; a pair of bevel drive gears on opposite sides of the link gear rotatable about an axis normal to the base plate independently of each other in both the same and opposite directions; and a pair of transfer gears between and coupled to the drive gears and the link gear for transmitting movement between the drive gears and the link gear, the transfer gears being double bevel gears rotatable about an axis perpendicular to the axis about which the drive gears rotate. 26. Differential drive of claim 25 comprising an elongated transfer gear axle extending along the axis of transfer gear rotation for supporting the transfer gears, the axle having a rotational bearing at each end for rotationally supporting the axle and a central bearing sleeve through which the lower link extends for rotationally supporting the lower link, and thereby permitting two degrees of freedom for the lower link at the differential drive. 27. Differential drive of claim 16 comprising a side wall for supporting the rotational bearings of each transfer gear axle end and thereby supporting the differential drive, the side walls being mounted to the base plate. 28. Differential drive of claim 25 wherein the drive gears are each driven by an independent motor for manipulating the legs and thereby moving the top plate. 29. Differential drive of claim 28 wherein the motors comprise electromagnetic actuators. 30. Differential drive of claim 25 comprising a fastener for limiting the range of motion of the link gear to control the relative position between the link gear and the transfer gears. 31. Differential drive of claim 30 wherein the transfer gears are free to move along their axis of rotation toward and away from the link and drive gears so that the fastener also controls the relative position between the drive gear and the transfer gears. 32. Differential drive of claim 30 wherein the fastener comprises a nut on the end of the leg adjacent the link gear, the nut being rotatable to adjust the limitation of the link gear range of motion. 33. In an end effector having a base plate and a plurality of elongated legs extending from the base plate operating a top plate, a differential drive transmitting movement between the base plate and a leg comprising: a bevel link gear at the end of the leg; a pair of bevel drive gears on opposite sides of and coupled to the link gear; a fastener for limiting the range of motion of the bevel link gear along the leg axis of elongation for ensuring a secure coupling with the drive gears. 34. Differential drive of claim 33 wherein the fastener comprises a nut on the end of the leg adjacent the link gear; the nut being rotatable to adjust the link gear's range of motion with respect to the drive gear for ensuring a secure coupling with the drive gears. 35. Differential drive of claim 34 wherein the end of the leg comprises threads and the nut is rotatable on the threads for movement along the leg's axis of elongation. 36. Differential drive of claim 33 comprising a pair of transfer gears between and coupled to the drive gears and the link gear for transmitting movement between the drive gears and the link gear, the transfer gears being rotatable and translatable about an axis perpendicular to the axis about which the drive gears rotate so that the fastener also adjusts the link gear's range of motion with respect to the transfer gears and the transfer gear's range of translatable motion with respect to the drive gears. 