A precision robot apparatus (10) is disclosed which has an arm supporting cylinder (16) capable of being moved vertically by means of a lead screw (24) which rotates within a lead screw nut (38) attached to the arm supporting cylinder (16). A linear guide rod (44) is positioned parallel to the arm supporting cylinder (16) with an anti-rotation plate (42) therebetween. An arm drive belt (74) transfers rotational power from the linear guide rod (44) to the arm supporting cylinder (16). Rotational motion of the arm supporting cylinder (16) relative to a fixed arm pulley (92) is employed to power an arm portion (14).
Claims I claim: 1. An object transport apparatus, comprising: a stationary portion; a rotating stage rotatably affixed to said stationary portion such that said rotating stage may be rotated about a rotational axis; a lead screw rotatably affixed to the stationary portion coaxially about said rotational axis, and further such that the lead screw may be independently rotated about said rotational axis relative to the rotating stage; a lead screw nut threaded onto the lead screw and affixed to the rotating stage by an anti-rotation means such that the lead screw nut is prevented from rotating about said rotational axis relative to the rotating stage, and further such that the lead screw nut is free to move axially along said rotational axis as the lead screw rotates within the lead screw nut; an arm actuating means rotatably affixed to the lead screw nut such that at least a portion of the arm actuating means may be rotated about said rotational axis relative to the lead screw nut; a first motive means for rotating the rotating stage relative to the stationary portion; a second motive means for rotating the lead screw relative to the stationary portion; and a third motive means for rotating the arm actuating means relative to the lead screw nut. 2. The object transport apparatus of claim 1, wherein; said anti-rotation means includes a guide rod positioned parallel to said rotational axis and affixed to the rotating stage such that said guide rod moves about said rotational axis with the rotating stage; and an anti-rotation appendage rigidly affixed to the lead screw nut and further slidably affixed to said guide rod such that said anti-rotation appendage is free to slide longitudinally along said guide rod. 3. The object transport apparatus of claim 2, wherein: said guide rod is rotatably affixed to the rotating stage such that said guide rod may be rotated about a guide rod longitudinal axis which is parallel to said rotational axis; and the third motive means includes; an arm power source; an intermediate power transfer means for transferring rotational power from said arm power source to said guide rod, and thus for causing said guide rod to rotate about said guide rod longitudinal axis; and an arm power transfer means for transferring rotational power from said guide rod to said arm actuating means, and thus for causing said arm actuating means to rotate about said rotational axis. 4. The object transport apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the arm actuating means is a tubular sleeve positioned so as to be coaxial with said rotational axis. 5. The object transport apparatus of claim 1, and further including: an arm rigidly affixed to the arm actuating means and extending therefrom perpendicular to said rotational axis; and a pinion positioned so as to be coaxial with the rotational axis and affixed such that said pinion is stationary relative to the lead screw nut such that, when the arm actuating means is rotated about said rotational axis relative to the lead screw nut, said arm rotates about said rotational axis relative to said pinion, wherein; said pinion is so positioned and affixed by means of an inner cylinder, said inner cylinder being a tubular sleeve positioned coaxially in relation to said rotational axis, and rigidly affixed at one end relative to the lead screw nut such that the lead screw is free to rotate within said inner cylinder and further having said pinion rigidly affixed thereto at an opposite end such that said pinion is coaxial with said rotational axis. 6. The object transport apparatus of claim 5, wherein: said arm is terminated at its distal end by an end effector for selectively picking up and releasing the transported object. 7. The object transport apparatus of claim 5, and further including: an arm extension means for translating relative rotational motion of said arm relative to said pinion into linear motion such that at least a portion of said arm is extended and retracted along a line lying perpendicular to said rotational axis, depending upon the direction of the relative rotational motion. 8. The object transport apparatus of claim 7, wherein: said arm extension means is a rotary to linear motion robotic arm. 9. The object transport apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the first motive means, the second motive means, and the third motive means include three independently controllable reversible electric motors with belt and pulley means for transferring rotational power from said motors to, respectively, the rotating stage, the lead screw, and the arm actuating means. 10. The object transport apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the first motive means includes; an electric motor rigidly affixed to the rotating stage, said electric motor having a motor pulley which rotates, as powered by said electric motor, relative to the rotating stage; a fixed pulley which is affixed such that it is coaxial with said rotational axis and is stationary relative to the stationary portion; and a drive belt for transferring power from said motor pulley to said fixed pulley such that, when said electric motor causes said motor pulley to rotate, the rotating stage is caused to rotate about said rotational axis relative to the stationary portion. 11. A robotic apparatus for rotating an arm about a rotational axis, and further for moving the arm longitudinally along the rotational axis, and further for transferring power form an arm power means to said arm for enabling motion of the arm, comprising: a lead screw; a lead screw power means for rotating the lead screw about the rotational axis relative to a fixed base; a lead screw nut threaded on the lead screw for moving longitudinally along the rotational axis as the lead screw rotates; a rotating platform rotatably affixed to the fixed base such that the rotating platform may be rotated about the rotational axis independent of the lead screw; rotating platform power means for rotating the rotating platform about the rotational axis; anti-rotation means connected between the lead screw nut and the rotating platform such that the lead screw nut is prevented form rotating about the rotational axis relative to the rotating platform; an arm actuator rotatably affixed to the lead screw nut such that the arm actuator may be rotated about the rotational axis; and arm actuator power transfer means for transferring power form the arm power means to the arm actuator for rotating the arm actuator about the rotational axis such that relative rotational motion between the arm actuator and the lead screw nut is produced, by which relative rotational motion the arm may optionally be powered, wherein; the anti-rotation means includes an anti-rotation plate rigidly affixed to the lead screw nut and further slidably affixed to a guide rod, the guide rod being a rod affixed to the rotating platform so as to be parallel to the rotational axis, such that the lead screw nut is caused to rotate in unison with the rotating platform and further such that the lead screw nut is free to move longitudinally along the rotational axis as the lead screw is threaded through the lead screw nut. 