The present invention is an apparatus for cleaning semi-conductor solid surfaces using a spray of frozen cryogen, such as argon, to impinge on the solid surface to remove contaminant particles. The apparatus includes an appropriate nozzle positioned in a housing designed for ultra clean conditions including sweep gas supply and evacuation conduits and a support table movably positioned within the housing to controllably convey the semi-conductor solid surface on a track under the spray of frozen cryogen emanating from the nozzle.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for cleaning undesired material from a solid surface using a projected spray of discrete substantially frozen cleaning particles which can vaporize after impingement on the solid surface, comprising: a) a generally closed housing in which a solid surface to be cleaned is accommodated and having entry means for introducing a solid surface into said housing; b) a nozzle situated in said housing so as to project a spray of discrete substantially frozen cleaning particles at said solid surface to be cleaned; c) means for supplying a fluid cleaning medium to said nozzle for generation of substantially frozen cleaning particles; d) means for removal from said housing of said undesired material cleaned from said solid surface; e) movable support means in said housing for supporting said solid surface to be cleaned and having means to controllably move said solid surface from said entry means to a position juxtaposed to said projected spray of said nozzle; and f) means for supplying a flush gas to said housing to control the atmosphere in said housing and to assist the removal of said undesired material cleaned from said solid surface wherein said housing has a chamber accommodating said nozzle with an opening juxtaposed to a chamber accommodating said support means and said chamber accommodating said nozzle includes flow baffles at said opening for controlling said spray of said cleaning particles. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said nozzle comprises a nozzle compartment having a plenum for receiving fluid cleaning medium, a first orifice connected to a supply of a fluid cleaning medium and said plenum, a second orifice comprising a plurality of aligned apertures for discharging said cleaning medium from said plenum and projecting said spray of discrete substantially frozen cleaning particles at said solid surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing has a viewing window for operator observation of a cleaning operation. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said support means comprises a substantially flat table having fastening means to affix said solid surface to said table, track means for controllably moving said table under said projected spray of said nozzle and actuation means for moving said table on said track means. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said table is movably mounted on a linear track means for linear movement under the projected spray of said nozzle. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said table is movably mounted on a circular track means for arcuate movement under the projected spray of said nozzle. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said fastening means is a mechanical clip. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said fastening means is a suction device. 9. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said fastening means is an electrostatic chuck. 10. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said fastening means is an electromagnetic device. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing has a raised chamber accommodating said nozzle with an opening juxtaposed to a lower chamber accommodating said support means. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said raised chamber includes flow baffles at said opening for controlling said spray of said cleaning particles. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said supply means has a filter for removal of contaminants from said fluid cleaning medium. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said supply means has a cooling means for initially cooling said fluid cleaning medium before entering said nozzle. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said supply means includes a separate supply of argon gas and a separate supply of nitrogen gas and a means for blending the gases together. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said nozzle is positioned at a 0-90.degree. angle to the plane of said solid surface. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said nozzle is positioned at a 45.degree. angle to the plane of said solid surface. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing includes an insulation barrier to allow the apparatus to operate below ambient temperature conditions. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for introducing a solid substrate is an aperture which communicates with other apparatus for diverse processing of semiconductor materials. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for removal comprises an appropriate conduit and a vacuum pump for removing said undesired material and used cleaning medium from said housing. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for supplying a flush gas includes means for supplying an inert sweep gas to said housing. 22. An apparatus for cleaning undesired material from a solid surface using a projected spray of discrete substantially frozen cleaning particles which can vaporize after impingement on the solid surface, comprising: a) generally closed housing in which a solid surface to be cleaned is accommodated and having entry means for introducing a solid surface into said housing; b) a nozzle situated in said housing so as to project a spray of discrete substantially frozen cleaning particles at said solid surface to be cleaned; c) means for supplying a fluid cleaning medium to said nozzle for generation of substantially frozen cleaning particles; d) means for removal from said housing of said undesired material cleaned form said solid surface; e) movable support means in said housing for supporting said solid surface to be cleaned and having means to controllably move said solid surface from said entry means to a position juxtaposed to said projected spray of said nozzle; and f) means for supplying a flush gas to said housing to control the atmosphere in said housing and to assist the removal of said undesired material cleaned from said solid surface wherein said housing has a raised chamber accommodating said nozzle with an opening juxtaposed to a lower chamber accommodating said support means and said raised chamber includes flow baffles at said opening for controlling said spray of said cleaning particles. 