A system and method for positioning a tool relative to a patient's bone to facilitate the performance of a surgical bone alteration task. The system comprises a bone immobilization device for supporting the bone in a fixed position with respect to the reference structure, and a robot that includes a base fixed in position with respect to the reference structure. The robot also includes a mounting member, and a manipulator connected between the base and the mounting member and permitting relative movement therebetween. The tool to be positioned by the system is mounted to the mounting member. The mounting member is caused to move relative to the reference structure in response to movement commands, so that the tool can be moved to a desired task position to facilitate performance of the task. The system preferably also includes a template attachable to the mounting member, a feature of the template representing a portion of a task. Preferably, the template is secured to the mounting member, and the template is then manually manipulated such that the template feature is properly oriented with respect to the patient's bone. The template position is then recorded as a reference position that may thereafter be combined with a geometric database defining the task to determine the position of the tool. Particular embodiments for a bone immobilizer, a template and a saw guide are also described, together with a stabilizing device for the robot and a safety device for the robot base.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method for specifying the desired position of a surgical alteration of a bone, the bone being rigidly mounted relative to a reference structure, the method being performed at least in part by a surgical system comprising a robot that includes a base rigidly mounted with respect to the reference structure, a mounting member, a manipulator connected between the base and the mounting member and permitting relative movement therebetween, position-sensing means for generating positional signals indicative of the position of the mounting member in a world coordiante system fixed relative to the reference structure, and attachment means for securing a template to the mounting member, a feature of said template indicating a feature of the alteration, said method comprising the steps of: attaching the template to the mounting member of the robot; positioning the template relative to the bone so that the template feature is positioned so as to indicate the position of the alteration, the position being termed the reference position; and recording said reference position. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein said step of positioning the template includes the steps of setting the robot to a passive mode in which the mounting member can be manually moved relative to the reference structure, and then manually positioning the template. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the template includes an identification pattern unique to the template, and the attachment means includes an identification device positioned so as to be adjacent the identification pattern when the template is secured to the mounting member, the identification device being suitable for ascertaining the identification pattern and generating signals indicative thereof, and wherein the step of attaching the template to the mounting member includes the steps of ascertaining the identification pattern, and comparing the pattern to an identification code for the template. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the surgical system further comprises operator interface means for displaying system information and receiving data and operator control commands, and wherein said step of positioning the template includes receiving operator control commands from the operator interface means, generating movement commands from said operator control commands, and moving the mounting member relative to the reference structure in response to said movement commands. 5. A method for determining a reference position of a template relative to a patient's bone to facilitate the performance of a surgical bone alteration task, the method comprising: immobilizing the bone by supporting the bone in a fixed position with respect to a reference structure; attaching the template to a robot, the robot comprising a base fixed with respect to the reference structure, a mounting member, a manipulator connected between the base and the mounting member and permitting relative movement therebetween, position-sensing means for generating positional signals indicative of the position of the mounting member in a world coordinate system fixed relative to the reference structure, and attachment means for securing said template to the mounting member; moving the mounting member and template relative to the reference structure such that a feature of the template is in a desired position relative to the bone; and recording the position of the template as the reference position. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said step of moving the mounting member and template includes the step of manually moving the mounting member and template. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein said step of moving the template includes the step of setting the robot to a passive mode in which the mounting member can be manually moved relative to the reference structure. 