A method and apparatus are disclosed which allows a plurality of dissimilar simulation systems to act in a cooperative manner such that they may act to provide a single overall simulation of a system. The system to be simulated is partitioned into these simulation systems and subsequently these systems are networked and synchronized. This interaction of these dissimilar simulation systems is accomplished by a simulation tool which allows a simulation system to route messages to other systems, synchronizes the operation of all simulation systems, allows partitioning elements to be stored and downloaded to these systems, and allows each simulation system to utilize its own native programming language during the creation of the single system simulation associated therewith.
Claims We claim: 1. A simulation system which permits a plurality of dissimilar simulation systems to be interactively coordinated to create a single integrated simulation of an automation system, said dissimilar simulation systems being originally software incompatible with each other and comprising a first and second dissimilar simulation systems, said first dissimilar simulation system defining events at different time intervals from said second dissimilar simulation system, said simulation system comprising: a discrete event simulation system defining a plurality of discrete event simulation elements which define events at irregular points in time therein, said discrete event simulation elements generating a plurality of messages therefrom; a kinematic simulation system defining a plurality of kinematic simulation elements therein which define events at regular points in time, said kinematic simulation elements generating a plurality of messages therefrom; a control simulation system defining a plurality of control simulation elements therein, each of said control simulation elements generating a plurality of messages therefrom and being uniquely associated with and in communication with one of said plurality of discrete event and kinematic simulation elements; each of said discrete event, said kinematic, and said control simulation systems being one of said plurality of dissimilar simulation systems; communication means, connected to each of said dissimilar simulation systems, for routing messages among said dissimilar simulation systems; library means, connected to said communication means for creating and storing said discrete event simulation elements, said kinematic simulation elements, and said control simulation elements therein; and synchronization means for synchronizing the delivery of information to and from said dissimilar simulation systems, said synchronization means being connected to said communication means and being operable to provide a time stamp upon each message of said pluralities of messages and for enabling said discrete event, kinematic, and control simulation systems to cooperate in creating said single integrated simulation, said synchronization means including: a centralized synchronization manager, and a plurality of local synchronization managers, each of said local synchronization managers being connected to a simulation system being interactively coordinated to create said single integrated simulation of an automation system. 2. The simulation system of claim 1 further comprising means, connected to said synchronization means, for creating and storing a unique system address associated with each simulation therein. 3. The simulation system of claim 1 wherein said plurality of dissimilar simulation systems each has a unique programming language associated therewith, said simulation system further comprising interface means, connected to each of said dissimilar simulation systems, for allowing each of said systems to send said messages associated therewith to said communication means and for allowing said associated messages to be created by use of said unique programming language therein. 4. The simulation system of claim 1, further including network means, connected to said discrete event, kinematic and control simulation systems, for transporting messages therebetween. 5. The simulation system of claim 4 wherein said network means comprises a twisted wire. 6. The simulation system of claim 4 wherein said network means comprises a coaxial cable. 7. The simulation system of claim 1, wherein said communication means comprises: a centralized communications manager; and a plurality of local communications managers, each of said local communications managers being connected to a unique simulation system and being in communication with said centralized communications manager. 8. The simulation tool of claim 1 wherein said routed messages comprises: a first field specifying a destination element address; a second field specifying a time stamp; a third field specifying a method to be performed; a fourth field specifying a parameter associated with said method; a fifth field specifying a source element address; a sixth field specifying a synchronization identification; a seventh field specifying a synchronization time; and an eighth field specifying an error correcting code. 