A robot wrist comprises a wrist input connected to a wrist output through three mechanical links. Two of the mechanical links each include an actuator and a joint. Each actuator is pivotally attached to the wrist input. The output of each actuator is translationally driven along the output axis by the actuator. The input of each joint is rigidly attached to the corresponding actuator output. The third mechanical link includes a third joint and means for connecting the third joint input to the wrist input. The outputs of all three joints are rigidly mounted to the wrist output at three separate locations on the wrist output.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot wrist, comprising: (a) a wrist input; (b) a first actuator having a first actuator input pivotally attached to said wrist input, and a first actuator output slidably connected to said first actuator input and translationally driven along a first axis; (c) a first joint having a first joint input rigidly attached to said first actuator output, and a first joint output pivotally attached to said first joint input; (d) a second actuator having a second actuator input pivotally attached to said wrist input, and a second actuator output slidably connected to said second actuator input and translationally driven along a second axis; (e) a second joint having a second joint input rigidly attached to said second actuator output, and a second joint output pivotally attached to said second joint input; (f) a third joint having a third joint input and a third joint output pivotally attached to said third joint input; (g) a third actuator having a third actuator input attached to said wrist input, and a third actuator output rotatably connected to said third actuator input and rotatably driven about a third axis, wherein said third actuator output is rigidly attached to said third joint input; and (h) a wrist output rigidly attached to said first, second, and third joint outputs at three separate locations on said wrist output. 2. The robot wrist of claim 1, wherein said third actuator input is rigidly attached to said wrist input. 3. The robot wrist of claim 1, wherein said first axis is substantially parallel to said second axis. 4. The robot wrist of claim 1, wherein said first, second, and third joints are each universal joint. 5. The robot wrist of claim 1, wherein said three separation locations on said wrist output are disposed in an isosceles triangle arrangement. 6. The robot wrist of claim 1, wherein all rotations of said wrist output relative to said wrist input occur about said third joint. 7. The robot wrist of claim 1, wherein said wrist output is rotatably driven about said third axis when said third actuator output is rotatably driven by said third actuator. 8. The robot wrist of claim 1, wherein said wrist output is driven about a pitch axis when said first and second actuator outputs are driven in the same direction by said first and second actuators, the range of pitch-axis motion of said wrist output being greater than ninety degrees. 9. The robot wrist of claim 2, wherein: said first axis is substantially parallel to said second axis; said first, second, and third joints are each universal joints; said three separation locations on said wrist output are disposed in an isosceles triangle arrangement; all rotations of said wrist output relative to said wrist input occur about said third joint; said wrist output is rotatably driven about said third axis when said third actuator output is rotatably driven by said third actuator; and said wrist output is driven about a pitch axis when said first and second actuator outputs are driven in the same direction by said first and second actuators, the range of pitch-axis motion of said wrist output being greater than ninety degrees. 