An apparatus for processing a flexible sheet workpiece is disclosed. The apparatus includes workstations arranged in at least two parallel series. Each workstation is adapted to carry out at least one operation on the workpiece, which can then be transferred to the next workstation in the series or, if desired, from a workstation in one series to a workstation in an adjacent series across an interchange area between the two series.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for processing a flexible sheet workpiece comprising workstations arranged in at least two parallel series of workstations and each adapted to carry out at least one operation on the flexible sheet workpiece, transfer means capable of transferring the workpiece from one workstation to another workstation, and an interchange area between and contiguous with each adjacent series of workstations, the transfer means and interchange area being arranged so that the transfer means can transfer the workpiece from a workstation to an interchange area, from an interchange area to a workstation and across the interchange area from a workstation in one series to a workstation in an adjacent series. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which each interchange area is also a bypass area adapted such that the workpiece can be transferred from a workstation to the bypass workpiece acan be transferred from a workstation to the bypass area in order to bypass a subsequent workstation. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which the transfer means comprise robotic devices. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, in which the robotic devices are arranged in a system such that the working envelope of each robotic device overlaps with the working envelope of at least one adjacent robotic device, thereby enabling the workpiece to be transferred from one robotic device to another. 5. Apparatus according to claim 3, in which at least one of the robotic devices can be programmed to guide the workpiece through at least one workstation as well as to transfer the workpiece. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, in which the interchange area comprises a flat, low friction surface and each workstation comprises a flat, low friction surface so that the workpiece can be transferred to and from the workstations and to and from the interchange area by the transfer means by sliding across flat, low friction surfaces. 