A telerobot system including an operator interface for developing and controlling complex tasks for execution on a remote robot manipulator by developing sequences of parameterized tasks primitives for execution and testing on a local simulator. The task sequences, and their parameterization, may be interactively modified by teleoperation and/or editing during sequence development and task execution. Adjustable time delays are provided for execution simulation including delays expected to occur between task command and execution at the remote robot manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a telerobot, comprising the steps of: providing a set of autonomous local task primitives to control a local telerobot simulator, each of said autonomous local task primitives being a reusable, self contained program for controlling said local telerobot simulator to accomplish a local subtask in response to the numerical values of a series of local input parameters related to said autonomous local task primitive; providing a related set of autonomous remote task primitives to control a remote telerobot manipulator, each of said autonomous remote task primitives being a reusable, self contained program for controlling said remote telerobot manipulator to accomplish a remote subtasks, related to a local subtasks, in response to the numerical values of a series of remote input parameters related to said autonomous remote task primitive; interactively developing and modifying said series of numerical values for said local input parameters for each of local task primitives on the local telerobot simulator, to simulate the performance on the local telerobot simulator of a desired series of subtasks by the remote telerobot manipulator; transferring a series of numerical values for said remote input parameters, and an order of execution of a sequence of autonomous remote task primitives, to said remote telerobot manipulator related to said interactively developed and modified numerical values and order of execution; and then executing a sequence of said remote task primitives in accordance with said transferred numerical values and order of execution to control the remote telerobot manipulator to perform said desired series of subtasks, whereby said remote telerobot manipulator may be controlled to perform a desired task consisting of said series of subtasks by the transfer of numerical values and an order of execution of said remote task primitives. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of executing the sequence to control the remote telerobot manipulator further comprises: modifying such execution by teleoperation to simultaneously merge automatic and manual control of the remote telerobot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of interactively developing and modifying further comprises the steps of: interactively modifying and testing the numerical values for the local input parameters and the order of execution on a local graphics simulator; and then interactively modifying and testing the numerical values for the local input parameters and the order of execution on a local robot manipulator. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of interactively developing and modifying further comprises the step of: providing a time delay between task command and execution on the local robot simulator representing the delay expected between task command and execution on the remote telerobot manipulator. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of interactively developing and modifying further comprises the steps of: combining teleoperation of the local telerobot simulator with execution of a subset of said local task primitives on the local telerobot simulator to develop a macro task; utilizing teleoperation of the local site simulator to indicate task primitives, their sequence, and their numerical parameterization to develop a macro task; testing, editing and retesting the macro task on the local telerobot simulator; and then combining the pretested macro task with other local task primitives to develop the series of numerical values and order of execution. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of executing the sequence of said remote task primitives to control the remote telerobot manipulator further comprises the step of: modifying the parameters during execution. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of executing the sequence of said remote task primitives to control the remote telerobot manipulator further comprises the step of: modifying the parameters at the initiation of the execution of a remote task primitive based on task context at the time of said execution. 