An active virtual pivot hand controller using motors to control reflective forces and torques. Degree of freedom parameters, stops, and reflective force rates may be easily modified without altering hardware. The location of the virtual pivot of the hand controller may be likewise readily changed.
Claims We claim: 1. A six degree-of-freedom virtual pivot controller comprising: grip means for receiving externally applied force and torque; force and torque sensing means, connected to said grip means, for sensing the force and torque, from up to six-degrees-of-freedom, applied to said grip means; first support means, connected to said sensing means, for supporting said sensing means; second support means for supporting said hand controller; at least one variable-length member means having a first flexible connector attached to said first support means and a second flexible connector, attached to said second support means, for variable supporting said first support means, wherein said at least one variable-length member means comprises: translation actuating means connected to said member means, for varying the length of said member means; translational sensing means, connected to said member means, for sensing a length of said member means; angular actuating means, connected to said member means, for angularly moving said member means relative to said second support means; and angular sensing means, connected to said member means, or sensing an angular position of said member means relative to said second support means. 2. Controller of claim 1 further comprising processing and control means, connected to said force and torque sensing means, to said translational sensing means, to said angular sensing means, to said translation actuating means and to said angular actuating means, for receiving signals from said force and torque sensing means, said translational sensing means and said angular sensing means, and for sending signals to said translation actuating means and to said angular actuating means. 3. Controller of claim 2 wherein said processing and control means sends signals to an external device to be controlled by said hand controller, and receives signals for the external device. 4. Controller of claim 3 wherein any externally applied force and torque to said grip means is sensed by said force and torque sensing means which in turn sends signals indicating force and torque to said processing and control means which in turn sends signals indicating certain kinds of control to the external device being controlled which in turn sends signals of action and reflective force of the external device to said processing and control means which in turn sends signals of reflective force and movement to said translational actuating means and to said angular actuating means which in turn provide reflective force, torque and movement in response to the any externally applied force and torque to said grip means. 5. Controller of claim 4 wherein said grip means reflects a virtual pivot point of said grip means having to the spring-like reflective force and torque, and movement to the any externally applied force and torque. 6. Controller of claim 4 wherein a location of the virtual pivot point and magnitudes of the spring-like reflective force and torque and of movement may be varied via input information to said processing and control means. 7. A six degree-of-freedom virtual pivot hand controller comprising: a handle; a six-degree-of-freedom force and torque sensor connected to said handle; first support means, connected to said force and torque sensor, for supporting said force and torque sensor; at least one variable-length member assembly comprising: a variable length member; a first connector connected to said member and to said first support means; a second connector connected to said member; a linear actuator connected to said member; a linear sensor connected to said linear actuator; an angular actuator connected to said second connector; and an angular sensor connected to said angular actuator; and second support means, connected to said second connector, for supporting said hand controller. 8. Controller of claim 7 further comprising interface and control means, connected to said force and torque sensor, linear actuator, linear sensor, angular actuator, and angular sensor, for interfacing said control with an external device to be controlled, for receiving signals indicative of control inputs to said handle to control the external device, and for sending signals to said linear actuator and angular actuator. 9. Controller of claim 8 wherein: control inputs to said handle result in reflective force and torque, and movement at said handle caused by said linear actuator and said angular actuator; and the reflective force and movement reflect a virtual pivot having a spring-like return position, to said handle. 10. Controller of claim 9 wherein a location of the virtual pivot point and magnitudes of the reflective force and torque, and of movement may be varied via input information to said interface and control means. 11. Controller of claim 10 wherein: said first connector is a ball joint; said second connector is a universal joint; said linear actuator comprises a first motor connected to said interface and control means, for drawing said linear actuator which changes length of said variable length member; said linear sensor comprises: a first tachometer connected to the first motor and to said interface and control means; and a linear potentiometer connected to said linear actuator and to said interface and control means; said angular actuator further comprises a second motor, connected to said interface and control means, for driving said angular actuator; and said angular sensor comprises: a first angular potentiometer connected to said universal joint and to said interface and control means; a second angular potentiometer connected to said universal joint and to said interface and control means; and a second tachometer connected to the second motor and to said interface and control means. 12. A six degree-of-freedom virtual pivot hand controller comprising: a handle; a six degree-of-freedom force and torque sensor connected to said handle; a base plate; a plurality of extendable legs attached to said force and torque sensor and to said base plate, wherein each extendable leg comprises: a linear actuator for extending and shortening said extendable leg; a first flexible joint for attaching said linear actuator to said force and torque sensor; a second flexible joint for connecting said linear actuator to said base plate; a linear sensor attached to said linear actuator for determining the length of said extendable leg; an angular actuator attached to said second flexible joint for varying angles of inclination of said extendable leg relative to said base plate; an angular sensor connected to said second flexible joint for measuring varying angles of inclination of said extendable leg relative to said base plate; and a processing and control means, connected to said torque and force sensor, to said linear and angular sensors, and to said linear and angular actuators, for receiving signals and from said linear and angular sensors, for processing the signals in relation to a device being controlled by said controller, and for sending signals to said linear and angular actuators to actuate said controller with a response to force and torque inputs. 