A man-machine interface is disclosed which provides force and texture information to sensing body parts. The interface is comprised of a force actuating device that produces a force which is transmitted to a force applying device. The force applying device applies the generated force to a pressure sensing body part. A force sensor on the force applying device measures the actual force applied to the pressure sensing body part, while angle sensors measure the angles of relevant joint body parts. A computing device uses the joint body part position information to determine a desired force value to be applied to the pressure sensing body part. The computing device combines the joint body part position information with the force sensor information to calculate the force command which is sent to the force actuating device. In this manner, the computing device may control the actual force applied to a pressure sensing body part to a desired force which depends upon the positions of related joint body parts. In addition, the interface is comprised of a displacement actuating device which produces a displacement which is transmitted to a displacement applying device (e.g., a texture simulator). The displacement applying device applies the generated displacement to a pressure sensing body part. The force applying device and displacement applying device may be combined to simultaneously provide force and displacement information to a pressure sensing body part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object, said device comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object; and at least one of: (a) means for applying said generated force between said sensing body part and a second body part which serves as a non-sensing part; (b) means for applying said generated force to said sensing body part, said applying means comprising an entity displaced from said sensing body part in a first unactivated position and touching said sensing body part in a second activated position; and (c) means for applying said generated force to produce a displacement of one or a plurality of texture elements, each element comprising an extendable and retractable pin or a focused fluid stream; and (d) means for applying said generated force to a sensing body part by means of at least one elongated element guided by a housing along the surface of the body across a joint, which joint is to be affected as a result of said generated force applied to said element. 2. A device according to claim 1, further comprising: means for sensing position of a controlling body part and producing a signal related to said position of said controlling body part; and signal collection and producing means for receiving said signal, controlling the interaction between said interactive entity and said object in relation to said signal and actuating said generating means to produce said force in relation to the interaction of said interactive entity and said object. 3. A device according to claim 1, said force generating means comprising: force actuating means; transmitting means for transmitting force from said actuating means to at least one of said applying means, said transmitting means comprising: at least one flexible elongated element; and a housing for guiding said element. 4. A device according to claim 1, wherein said applying means between said sensing body part and second body part comprises: at least one flexible elongated element, said element comprising a tendon or a fluid; and housing for guiding said element. 5. A device according to claim 1, wherein said sensing body part is a digit. 6. A device according to claim 5, wherein said device further comprises a glove support structure supporting said applying means. 7. A device according to claim 1, wherein said force generating means is a motor or solenoid. 8. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object according to claim 1, said device further comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object; and means for applying said generated force to said sensing body part, said applying means comprising a force sensing element in proximity, to said sensing body part. 9. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object, said device comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object; and means for applying said generated force between said sensing body part and a second body part which serves as a non-sensing part. 10. A device according to claim 9, wherein said sensing body part is a digit and said non-sensing part is a wrist. 11. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object, said device comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object; and means for applying said generated force to said sensing body part, said applying means comprising an entity displaced from said sensing body part in a first unactivated position and touching said sensing body part in a second activated position. 12. A device according to claim 11, said entity comprising a force-applying platform; a supporting structure for holding said force-applying platform in juxtaposition to said sensing body part; and retractable means for holding said force-applying platform in said first position. 13. A device according to claim 11, wherein said sensing body part is a digit tip. 14. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object, said device comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object; and means for applying said generated force to said sensing body part, said applying means, comprising a force-sensing element in proximity to said sensing body part; wherein said element comprises: a force-sensing platform; a force-applying platform; a fulcrum mounted on said force-applying platform and supporting said force-sensing platform; and mechanical means connecting said force-sensing platform to said force generating means, wherein actuation of said force-sensing platform by said generated force moves said force-applying platform into contact with said sensing body part. 15. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object, said device comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object; means for applying said generated force to produce a displacement of one or a plurality of texture elements, each element comprising an extendable and retractable pin or a focused fluid stream; and means for holding said texture elements in juxtaposition to said sensing body part. 16. A device according to claim 15, wherein said sensing body part is a digit tip. 17. A device according to claim 15, wherein said texture element(s) is a 3.times.3 array of texture elements. 18. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object, said device comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object, comprising first and second force generating means; means for applying said first generated force to said sensing body part, said applying means comprising an entity displaced from said sensing body part in a first unactivated position and touching said sensing body part in a second activated position; and means for applying said second generated force to produce a displacement of one or a plurality of texture elements, each element comprising an extendable and retractable pin or a focused fluid stream. 19. A device according to claim 18, further comprising means for applying said first generated force to a force sensing body part, said applying means comprising a force-sensing element in proximity to said sensing body part. 20. A device according to claim 18, wherein said sensing body part is a digit tip. 21. A device according to claim 18, further comprising; means for sensing position of a controlling body part and producing a signal related to said position of said controlling body part. 22. A device according to claim 21, further comprising: signal collection and producing means for receiving said signal, controlling the interaction between said interactive entity and said object in relation to said signal and actuating said generating means to produce said force in relation to the interaction of said interactive entity and said object. 23. A device according to claim 18, wherein said applying means for said first generated force comprises: transmitting means comprising: at least one flexible elongated element, said element comprising a tendon or a fluid; and a housing for guiding said element. 24. A device for producing a signal at a sensing body part simulating the interaction between an interactive entity and a virtual or physical object, said device comprising: means for generating a force simulating the interaction between said interactive entity and said object; and means for applying said generated force to a sensing body part by means of at least one elongated element guided by a housing along the surface of the body across a joint, which joint is to be affected as a result of said generated force applied to said element. 