A pretensioned cable transmits power along a first support member (link) from a rotary actuator to a rotating output joint, typically an output pulley fixed to a second link arm but rotatable in a coupling between the first and second links. A reducer, typically two sets of coupled idler pulleys of different diameter, is mounted at a point removed from the actuator, and preferably as close as possible to the output joint. An axially split spool mounted on the actuator output wraps the outgoing and returning cable sections on different halves of the spool in opposite directions to provide pretensioning of the cable in the entire cable circuit at one point. To form a differential, a pretensioned cable carried on paired pulleys having smooth outer surfaces parallel to the axis of rotation couples the pulleys. The pulleys have axes of rotation that can intersect and their cable carrying surfaces are closely spaced, preferably by less than half the width of the cable. The outer surfaces can be stepped to accommodate two or more cables for bi-directional operation, or to create a conventional differential with a spider. The links and pulleys of the transmission are long and narrow. This high aspect ratio provides a compact configuration that is conducive to whole arm manipulations where any exterior surface of the links can engage an object. A low inertia, low friction brushless D.C. motor operating under the control of a pulse width modulated controller responsive to the current drawn by the motor, in combination with the cable transmission of this invention, provide excellent force control.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a process for manipulating objects at a distance using a robot arm composed of at least one articulated link mounted in a support, an actuator for the link, and a transmission that transmits power from the actuator to the link to control movement of the link, the improvement comprising, controlling the actuator through force control, and engaging the objects anywhere along a side of the link. 2. The manipulation process according to claim 1 wherein said engaging includes forming said at least one articulated link with a high aspect ratio. 3. The manipulation process according to claim 1 or wherein said engaging includes covering said at least one articulated link with a compliant, high friction material. 4. The manipulation process according to claim 1 wherein said actuator is a low friction, low inertia brushless D.C. motor and said controlling includes sensing current drawn by said motor to produce its output torque and using a pulse-width-modulated controller to control the current supplied to the motor. 