Methods and apparatus for exchanging the end effectors of apparatus for handling objects, such as robotic manipulators are disclosed. A compliant tool depository is used in conjunction with a tool holder to perform the end effector exchange. The present invention utilizes the motive force provided by the end effector actuation to execute the sequence required for end effector exchange. A bi-stable latch is provided which minimizes the force required to latch and unlatch the end effectors, thereby providing an end effector exchange mechanism useful in small laboratory robots possessing small operating forces. The tool depository design also adds to the positional forgiveness of the apparatus, allowing the robotic arm and the depository to be aligned with a lesser degree of precision than might otherwise be required.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for releasably attaching an end effector to an apparatus for handling objects, comprising the steps of: (a) provided a tool depository comprising at least two guide pins extending from a surface connected to the tool depository that includes a keyhole plate for engaging a portion of said end effector; (b) providing a tool holder connected to the apparatus for handling objects comprising: a pair of bi-stable latches for engaging said guide pins and said end effector by activating a pinch rack connected to the latches for moving the latches between a closed position and an opened position; (c) aligning said pair of latches substantially with said guide pins by manipulating said apparatus for handling objects; (d) manipulating said apparatus for handling objects to engage said pair of latches with said guide pins; (e) engaging the latches with said end effector by actuating said pinch rack to move the latches to a closed position, thereby disengaging the end effector from the keyhole plate; and (f) withdrawing said tool holder means from said guide pins, whereby said end effector is releasably attached to said apparatus for handling objects. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said pinch rack is comprised of a linear rack and pinion drive and comprising the step of manipulating said latch plates means to engage said end effector by driving said pinch rack closed. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said end effector comprises a working plug and said tool holder is manipulated to engage said end effector by sliding a latch plate means into engagement with said working plug on said end effector. 4. Apparatus for releasably attaching an end effector to an apparatus for handling objects, comprising: (a) a tool depository comprising a plate having an aperture for retaining a storage plug,; and at least two guide pin means disposed upon the plate; (b) a tool holder comprising a pair of bi-stable latches for engaging said guide pin means and the end effector, said tool holder means attached to aid apparatus for handling objects; and (c) pinch rack means connected to the latches for selectively manipulating the latches between an open position and a closed position. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said tool depository is affixed to a surface at a location. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said apparatus for handling objects comprises a robotic arm. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said aperture has a first substantially circular portion connected to a second slot-like portion having a width less than the diameter of said first portion. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising restraining means for releasably retaining an object within said second portion. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising resilient means connecting said base and said top surface. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said resilient means comprises at least four plates, arranged so as to form a double nested parallelogram structure. 11. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said tool holder comprises at least two portions attached to a drive means, whereby said portions are selectively moved together or apart by said drive means and wherein each of said portions comprises a latch plate means for engaging and disengaging said end effector. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said latch plate comprises an opening adapted for engaging and disengaging said end effector. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said latch plate means is attached to spring means whereby said latch plate is a bi-stable latch and has a first locking position and a second unlocked position at which said latch plate is mechanically stable. 14. Apparatus for storing and exchanging an end effector for use in an apparatus for handling objects, wherein the end effector has a storage plug, comprising: (a) a base mounted to a base surface; (b) a tool depository comprising a top surface upon which said end effector is disposed at least during exchange, the top surface comprising an aperture for engaging the storage plug; (c) at least two guide pin means disposed upon said top surface of said tool depository; and (d) resilient side panel means connecting said base and said tool depository, whereby the resilient side panel means permits the tool depository to move relative to the base while the top surface remains substantially parallel to the base surface. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said aperture has a first substantially circular portion and a second slot-like portion having a width less than the diameter of said first portion. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising restraining means for releasably retaining an object within said second portion. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said resilient side panel means comprises at least four plates, each of said plates comprised of a substantially rigid section and at least two flexible sections. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said plates are so as to form a double nested parallelogram structure. 19. Apparatus for exchanging end effectors attached to robotic manipulators comprising: (a) a depository comprised of: a base portion and a top surface upon which an end effector may be placed; at least two fixturing pins which restrain said end effector attached to said top surface; at least two symmetrically disposed openings in the top surface, the openings having two sections, one of relatively larger opening size to permit entry of a portion of said end-effector and a second section for engaging said end-effector; one or more tapered guide pins disposed along an axis between said openings and extending from the plane of said top surface; and resilient means disposed between and connecting said base portion and said top surface; (b) tool holder means for engaging an end effector, comprising: (1) at least two symmetrically disposed hook means, said hook means attached to said tool holder by latch springs, and the geometry of said hook means chosen to approximate the spatial arrangement of said guide pins, (2) drive means for manipulating said hook means, wherein the tool holder thereby comprises bi-stable latch for engaging a portion of said end effector; and (c) an end effector comprising at least two portions for engaging said tool holder and at least two portions of engaging said storage depository, whereby said tool holder is engaged with said end effector and the drive means is manipulated to disengage said end effector from said depository, and said end effector thereby becomes latched to said tool holder means. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said portions for engaging said tool holder and for engaging said storage depository comprise substantially cylindrical plug means having an annular groove formed thereon. 