A joint assembly for allowing relative rotational movement of two structures. The joint assembly has a flexible member with a first surface facing a first direction and second surface facing a second opposite direction. The flexible member is typically a flexible circuit board or an electrical wire cable, that extends from a first structure to a second structure. The structures are interconnected so that they can rotate relative to each other. The flexible member is constructed in an essentially radial shape that defines an arcuate path. One end of the flexible member is attached to the first structure and the other opposite end is connected to the second structure. When the second structure rotates relative to the first structure, the end of the flexible member attached to the second structure moves along the arcuate path. As the flexible member moves along the arcuate path the member rolls over itself. That is, the portion of the flexible member that is rolled over, has its second surface facing the first direction instead of the second opposite direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A joint assembly for allowing relative rotational movement between two structures, comprising: a first structure; a first flexible transmitting member having a first surface facing a first direction and second surface facing a second opposite direction, said first flexible transmitting member being constructed in a predefined shape defining a predefined path, said first flexible transmitting member having a first end operatively connected to said first structure and a second end adapted to move in approximately said predefined path such that said first surface of a portion of said first flexible transmitting member faces said second direction; and, a second structure operatively connected to said second end of said first flexible transmitting member adapted to rotate relative to said first structure such that said second end rotates in said predefined path. 2. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said predefined shape is an arc defining an arcuate path. 3. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said predefined shape is a circle defining a circular path. 4. The assembly as recited in claim 3, wherein said second structure rotates up to 680 degrees relative to said first structure. 5. The assembly as recited in claim 3, wherein said first flexible transmitting member has a folded portion and at least one turn between said first end and said folded portion, wherein said second structure can rotate greater than 720 degrees relative to said first structure. 6. The assembly as recited in claim 5, wherein said first flexible transmitting member has at least one turn between said folded portion and said second end. 7. The assembly as recited in claim 1, further comprising a second flexible transmitting member having a first surface facing a first direction and second surface facing a second opposite direction, said second flexible transmitting member being constructed in a predefined shape defining a predefined path, said second flexible transmitting member having a first end operatively connected to said first structure and a second end adapted to move in approximately said predefined path such that said first surface of a portion of said second flexible transmitting member faces said second direction. 8. The assembly as recited in claim 4, wherein said first and second flexible transmitting members each have a plurality of electrical conductors extending from said first structure to said second structure along said predefined path, said electrical conductors being encapsulated by at least two flexible sheets constructed from electrically insulative material, whereby said electrical conductors and said flexible sheets form first and second flexible circuit boards. 9. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said first flexible transmitting member includes at least one tube that allows fluid to flow therethrough. 10. The assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said first flexible transmitting member includes at least one optic fiber. 11. The assembly as recited in claim 9, wherein said first flexible transmitting member includes at least one optic fiber. 12. A joint assembly for allowing rotational movement between two structures, comprising: a first structure; a flexible circuit board having a plurality of electrical conductors extending through said flexible circuit board in a predetermined pattern, said flexible circuit board having a first surface facing a first direction and a second surface facing a second opposite direction, said flexible circuit board being constructed in an essentially circular shape defining a circular path, said flexible circuit board having a first end operatively connected to said first structure and a second end adapted to move in approximately said circular path such that said first surface of a portion of said flexible circuit board faces said second direction; and, a second structure operatively connected to said second end of said flexible circuit board adapted to rotate relative to said first structure such that said second end of said flexible member moves in said circular path. 13. The assembly as recited in claim 12, further comprising a second flexible circuit board having a first surface facing a first direction and second surface facing a second opposite direction, said second flexible circuit board being constructed in an essentially circular shape defining a circular path, said second flexible circuit board having a fist end operatively connected to said first structure and a second end adapted to move in approximately said circular path such that said first surface of a portion of said second flexible circuit board faces said second direction. 14. The assembly as recited in claim 13, wherein said second structure rotates up to 680 degrees relative to said first structure. 15. A joint assembly for allowing relative rotational movement between two structures, comprising: a first structure having a first surface; a second structure having a second surface facing said first surface of said first structure, said first and second structures being adapted to rotate relative to each other; a first flexible transmitting member having a first surface facing a first direction and second surface facing a second opposite direction, said first flexible transmitting member being constructed in a first predefined shape defining a first predefined path, said first flexible transmitting member having a first end operatively connected to said first surface of said first structure, and a second end attached to said second surface of said second structure adapted to move in approximately said first predefined path such that said first surface of a portion of said first flexible transmitting member faces said second direction; and, a second flexible transmitting member having a first surface facing said second direction and a second surface facing said first direction, said second flexible transmitting member being constructed in a predefined shape defining a predefined path, said second flexible transmitting member having a first end operatively connected to said second surface of said second structure, and a second end attached to said first surface of said first structure adapted to move in approximately said predefined path such that said second surface of a portion of said flexible transmitting member faces said second direction; whereby when said first and second structures rotate relative to each other said first and second flexible transmitting members move in said predefined paths. 16. The assembly as recited in claim 15, wherein said first and second predefined shapes are an arc that defines an arcuate path. 17. The assembly as recited in claim 15, wherein said first and second predefined shapes are a circle that defines a circular path. 18. The assembly as recited in claim 15, wherein said structures rotate up to 680 degrees relative to said first structure. 19. The assembly as recited in claim 15, wherein said first and second flexible transmitting members each have a folded portion and at least one turn between said folded portion and said first end, such that said structures can rotate greater than 720 degrees relative to each other. 20. The assembly as recited in claim 19, wherein said first and second flexible transmitting members each have at least one turn between said folded portion and said second end. 21. The assembly as recited in claim 10, wherein said first and second flexible transmitting members each have a plurality of electrical conductors extending from said first structure to said second structure along said predefined path, said electrical conductors being encapsulated by at least two flexible sheets constructed from electrically insulative material, whereby said electrical conductors and said flexible sheets form first and second flexible circuit boards. 22. The assembly as recited in claim 15, wherein said first and second flexible transmitting members each include at least one tube that allows fluid to flow therethrough. 23. The assembly as recited in claim 15, wherein said first and second flexible transmitting members each include at least one optic fiber. 24. The assembly as recited in claim 22, wherein said first and second flexible transmitting members each include at least one optic fiber. 