A pin chuck holds a wafer during translation by an X-ray lithography machine. The chuck is designed to be the same size as the wafer and includes a plurality of extensions having tops along a common plane. The space between the extensions is evacuated to hold and level the wafer. In order to load or remove a wafer from the pin chuck, three extendable posts are provided which can be extended to permit a robot arm to position a wafer thereon for lowering to the pin chuck or remove a wafer therefrom lifted from the pin chuck. The three posts are triangularly positioned within a space sufficient to hold the wafer which at the same time close enough together to permit the fingers of the robot arm to fit therearound.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a lithography system, an apparatus for holding and transporting a wafer shaped device comprising: a platform sized and shaped to receive and hold said wafer shaped device; at least three posts, the ends of which are selectively movable between a home position within said platform and an extended position above said platform; and a radially, rotationally and vertically movable arm having a pair of spaced apart fingers at an end thereof, said fingers being spaced by a sufficient amount to fit around said posts when said posts are in said extended position, said arm being operated to support a wafer shaped device being transported from beneath, to place said wafer shaped device on said extended posts, and to remove said wafer shaped device from said extended posts; said posts being movable to lower a wafer shaped device placed thereon to a position to be held by said platform and to raise such wafer shaped device to permit its removal by said arm. 2. The invention according to claim 1 wherein said platform further includes a plurality of vacuum members for holding said wafer shaped device when said posts are at said home position. 3. The invention according to claim 1 wherein said posts are positioned around the center of said platform. 4. The invention according to claim 1 wherein said posts are triangularly positioned around the center of said platform. 5. The invention according to claim 1 wherein said posts are movable by a piston device. 6. The invention according to claim 5 wherein said piston device is a pneumaticly actuated device. 7. The invention according to claim 6 wherein said pistion device includes a bellows which is inflated to move said posts to said extended position and deflated to move said posts to said home position. 8. The invention according to claim 1 wherein each of said posts includes vacuum means for holding said wafer shaped device when in said extended position. 9. The invention according to claim 8 wherein said posts are movable by a piston device. 10. The invention according to claim 9 wherein said piston device is a pneumaticly actuated device. 11. The invention according to claim 10 wherein said pistion device includes a bellows which is inflated to move said posts to said extended position and deflated to move said posts to said home position. 12. The invention according to claim 8 wherein said platform further includes a plurality of vacuum members for holding said wafer shaped device when said posts are at said home position. 13. The invention according to claim 8 wherein said posts are triangularly positioned around the center of said platform. 14. The invention according to claim 8 wherein said posts are positioned around the center of said platform. 15. The invention according to claim 14 wherein said platform further includes a plurality of vacuum members for holding said wafer shaped device when said posts are at said home position. 