A magnetic field enhanced single wafer plasma etch reactor is disclosed. The features of the reactor include an electrically-controlled stepped magnetic field for providing high rate uniform etching at high pressures; temperature controlled reactor surfaces including heated anode surfaces (walls and gas manifold) and a cooled wafer supporting cathode; and a unitary wafer exchange mechanism comprising wafer lift pins which extend through the pedestal and a wafer clamp ring. The lift pins and clamp ring are moved vertically by a one-axis lift mechanism to accept the wafer from a cooperating external robot blade, clamp the wafer to the pedestal and return the wafer to the blade. The electrode cooling combines water cooling for the body of the electrode and a thermal conductivity-enhancing gas parallel-bowed interface between the wafer and electrode for keeping the wafer surface cooled despite the high power densities applied to the electrode. A gas feed-through device applies the cooling gas to the RF powered electrode without breakdown of the gas. Protective coatings/layers of materials such as quartz are provided for surfaces such as the clamp ring and gas manifold. The combination of these features provides a wide pressure regime, high etch rate, high throughput single wafer etcher which provides uniformity, directionality and selectivity at high gas pressures, operates cleanly and incorporates in-situ self-cleaning capability.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnetically enhanced plasma reactor comprising: a reaction chamber; a plurality of electromagnets located outside said reaction chamber for forming a D.C. magnetic field inside said reaction chamber; and means for applying a current to said plurality of electromagnets and controlling the current, for independently varying the angular orientation and magnitude of the magnetic field within said reaction chamber. 2. A magnetically enhanced plasma reactor comprising: a reaction chamber; means for supporting a planar substrate in the chamber; a plurality of paired electrically conductive coils, wherein each pair of said plurality of paired electrically conductive coils generates a magnetic field; a power source energizing said plurality of paired electrically conductive coils in a selected sequence for electrically generating a D.C. magnetic field and selectively moving the magnetic field by independently varying the angular orientation and magnitude of the magnetic field generated by each coil pair; and each coil of each pair of said plurality of paired electrically conductive coils being placed so that said magnetic field between each coil of a pair of said plurality of paired electrically conductive coils passes through the reaction chamber generally parallel to the plane of the substrate. 3. The magnetically enhanced plasma reactor as claimed in claim 2, wherein the moving magnetic field rotates inside the reaction chamber. 4. A method employing magnetically enhanced plasma for processing a workpiece comprising the steps of: providing a reaction chamber; providing a plurality of paired coils outside said reaction chamber; placing said workpiece in said reaction chamber; and creating and selectively moving a D.C. magnetic field by energizing said paired coils in selected sequence to independently vary the angular orientation and magnitude of the field. 5. A vacuum processing reactor, comprising a housing defining a vacuum chamber therein adapted for etching a workpiece positioned within the chamber at a high rate and with etching uniformity substantially independent of pressure, comprising: a pedestal for supporting the workpiece; a gas manifold for supplying reactant gases to the chamber; means for applying RF energy between the workpiece support pedestal and the gas manifold for generating a workpiece etching plasma; electric current-controlled magnetic field generating means for forming a D.C. magnetic field generally parallel to the workpiece surface; and means for selectively applying current to the field generating means for independently controlling the intensity and orientation of the magnetic field to provide a uniform etch plasma over the surface of the workpiece. 6. The vacuum processing reactor of claim 5, said D.C. magnetic field forming means comprising at least first and second pairs of electromagnets disposed around the periphery of the housing for forming a magnetic field parallel to the workpiece surface; and said current applying means comprising means for applying selected currents to the magnets for stepping the D.C. magnetic field angularly around the wafer to provide a uniform etching plasma. 7. The reactor of claim 5 further comprising means for circulating cooling fluid within the pedestal and means for applying gas at a low pressure between the face of the pedestal and a workpiece clamped thereto to enhance thermal conductivity between the workpiece and the pedestal. 8. The reactor of claim 6 further comprising means for circulating cooling fluid within the pedestal and means for applying gas at a low pressure between the face of the pedestal and a workpiece clamped thereto to enhance thermal conductivity between the workpiece and the pedestal. 9. The reactor of claim 5 further comprising a feed-through device for coupling the cooling gas at low pressure to the powered pedestal without ionization comprising a housing having a gas inlet adapted for receiving the cooling gas and a space gas outlet connected to the pedestal, said housing further comprising a pair of internal closely spaced apertured plates transversely spanning the path of the gas, one of the said plates on the outlet side of the gas flow being connected electrically in common with the pedestal and the other plate being connected to system ground. 10. The reactor of claim 5 further comprising means disposed on the exterior of the reactor for heating the internal reactor surfaces to a predetermined temperature for preventing deposits on said surfaces. 11. A pedestal for a planar substrate to be processed in a vacuum environment, said pedestal having a convex surface, said pedestal including liquid means of cooling said pedestal, an orifice in the center of said convex surface that intersects radial grooves in said surface for the passage of a thermally conductive gas between said surface and said substrate, said gas being under pressure so as to bow the substrate and maintain a gas filled, substantially uniform spacing between said surface and said substrate, thereby providing improved thermal conductance between said substrate and said pedestal. 12. A pedestal according to claim 11 wherein the curvature of the pedestal surface is from about 4 to 8 mils. 13. A pedestal for a planar substrate to be processed in a vacuum environment, said pedestal having a convex surface, said pedestal including means of cooling said pedestal, an orifice in said surface for the passage of a thermally conductive gas between said surface and said substrate, said gas being under pressure so as to bow the substrate and maintain a gas filled, substantially uniform spacing between said surface and said substrate, and further comprising a feed through device for coupling the conductive gas at low pressure to the pedestal without ionization comprising a housing having a gas inlet adapted for receiving the conductive gas and a spaced gas outlet connected to the pedestal, said housing further comprising a pair of internal, closely spaced apertured plates transversely spanning the path of the gas, one of the said plates on the outlet side of the gas flow being connected electrically in common with the pedestal and the other plate being connected to system ground, thereby providing improved thermal conductance between said substrate and said pedestal. 14. A pedestal according to claim 11 having a planar substrate clamped to said convex surface. 15. A pedestal according to claim 14 wherein said planar substrate is a semiconductor wafer. 16. A pedestal according to claim 14 wherein a gas under pressure is between said surface and said substrate so that the gas filled spacing is substantially uniform in thickness across the substrate. 17. A vacuum processing reactor comprising a housing defining a vacuum chamber therein adapted for etching a workpiece positioned within the chamber at a high rate without overheating said workpiece comprising: a pedestal for supporting the workpiece; a gas manifold for supplying reactant gases to the chamber; means for applying RF energy between the workpiece support pedestal and the gas manifold for generating a workpiece etching plasma; said pedestal having a convex surface, means for liquid cooling, and an orifice in the center of said convex surface that intersects radial grooves in said surface for passage of a thermally conductive gas between said surface and said workpiece, said gas being under pressure so as to be able to bow said workpiece and maintain a substantially uniform spacing between said surface and said workpiece, thereby providing improved thermal conductance between said pedestal and said workpiece. 18. A vacuum processing reactor comprising a housing defining a vacuum chamber therein adapted for etching a workpiece positioned within the chamber at a high rate without overheating said workpiece comprising: a pedestal for supporting the workpiece; a gas manifold for supplying reactant gases to the chamber; means for applying RF energy between the workpiece support pedestal and the gas manifold for generating a workpiece etching plasma; said pedestal having a convex surface, means for cooling, and an orifice in said convex surface for passage of a thermally conductive gas between said surface and said workpiece, said gas being under pressure so as to be able to bow said workpiece and maintain a substantially uniform spacing between said surface and said workpiece, and further comprising a feed through device for coupling the conductive gas at low pressure to the pedestal without ionization comprising a housing having a gas inlet adapted for receiving the conductive gas and a spaced gas outlet connected to the pedestal, said housing further comprising a pair of internal, closely spaced apertured plates transversely spanning the path of the gas, one of the said plates on the outlet side of the gas flow being connected electrically in common with the pedestal and the other plate being connected to system ground. 19. A reactor according to claim 17 wherein said conductive gas is helium. 20. A reactor according to claim 19 wherein said gas pressure is from about 1-10 torr. 21. A vacuum processing reactor comprising a housing defining a vacuum chamber therein adapted for etching a workpiece positioned within the chamber at a high rate without overheating said workpiece comprising: a pedestal for supporting the workpiece; a gas manifold for supplying reactant gases to the chamber; means for applying RF energy between the workpiece support pedestal and the gas manifold for generating a workpiece etching plasma; said pedestal having a convex surface, means for cooling, and an orifice in said convex surface for passage of a thermally conductive gas between said surface and said workpiece, said gas being under pressure so as to be able to bow said workpiece and maintain a substantially uniform spacing between said surface and said workpiece, and further comprising means disposed on the exterior of the reactor for heating the internal reactor surfaces to a predetermined temperature for preventing deposits on said surfaces. 22. A method of cooling a planar substrate to be processed in a vacuum environment which comprises providing a pedestal support for said substrate having a convex surface, a means of liquid cooling said pedestal support, and having an orifice in the center of said convex surface that intersects radial grooves in said surface for the passage of gas under pressure over said surface; clamping the periphery of said substrate to the edge of said pedestal; passing a thermally conductive gas through said orifice at a pressure so that the substrate becomes bowed by the gas, thereby maintaining a substantially uniform gas filled spacing between the liquid cooled pedestal surface and the substrate. 23. A method according to claim 22 wherein said gas is helium. 24. A method according to claim 23 wherein said gas pressure is about 1-10 torr. 25. A method according to claim 22 wherein said substrate is a semiconductor wafer. 