To provide a system for the optical ranging of a selected point on a target surface irradiated with light while avoiding false signals from other sources in a cluttered environment, the system employs a combination of the triangulation ranging technique with the Biris ranging technique, i.e. imaging onto a position sensitive photodetector through an apertured mask. This combination enables the respective equations for range that apply to the respective techniques to be combined to generate an equation that is true only for target surface points that are directly on the light beam, hence enabling rejection of false signals on the basis of those that fail to satisfy this latter equation. The system has the advantage of flexibility, in that it permits the light beam to be directed onto the target surface from a wide range of locations relative to the detector. In addition, three dimensional data on the target surface can be obtained by using at least one further light beam inclined to the first beam and a mask with more than two apertures. For many practical applications this latter arrangement avoids a need to scan the target surface relative to the detector.
Claims I claim: 1. An imaging system comprising (a) means for imaging onto a position sensitive light detector a selected point on a target surface irradiated by at least one light beam that occupies or traces out a narrow strip; (b) the imaging means having an optical axis and a mask perpendicular to the optical axis, the mask having at least two spaced apart aperture portions for forming on the detector image spots of the selected point, the range of the selected point being a function of the spacing b between said spots; (c) means for scanning pixels of said detector to extract data on the range and location of the selected point, (d) the direction of irradiation by said at least one light beam being such that said range is also a function of P, where P is the mean pixel position on the detector of said image spots, whereby P=g(b)+n(.THETA.), where g(b) is a monotonic function of b and n is a function of an inclination .THETA. of said light beam to the optical axis; and (e) computer means for selecting values for b and P that substantially satisfy this equation, such selected values representing the true range and location of the selected point. 2. An imaging system comprising (a) a converging lens system defining an optical axis extending in a direction Z and a position sensitive light detector having a series of pixels extending in at least one direction X perpendicular to the direction Z, the lens system being located to image a selected point on a target surface onto the detector to generate first data on the coordinate of said selected point in the X direction; (b) a mask lying in a plane perpendicular to the Z direction and having aperture means including at least two aperture portions spaced apart from each other in at least the X direction for forming on the detector image spots of said selected point to generate by means of a spacing b between said spots second data on the coordinate of said selected point in the direction Z; (c) means for scanning the detector pixels in the X direction to extract said first and second data for said selected point, the Z coordinate of the selected point being a function of the spacing b; (d) light means for irradiating the target surface including said selected point with a first beam that occupies or traces out a narrow strip to define a first beam plane, the light means being displaced at least in the X direction from a location midway between said aperture portions whereby the Z coordinate of the selected point is also a function of P, where P is the mean pixel position on the detector of the image spots corresponding to the selected point, whereby P=g(b)+n(.THETA.), where g(b) is, a monotonic function of b and n is a function of an inclination .THETA. of the light beam to the direction Z; (e) computer means for selecting values for b and P that substantially satisfy this equation, such selected values for b and P representing the true values of the X and Z coordinates of the selected point. 3. An imaging system according to claim 2, wherein the Z coordinate of the selected point on the target surface is given by ##EQU7## and also by ##EQU8## where L, L', k and k' are constants or a range of constants, L being the distance in the Z direction between the mask plane and a theoretical reference plane parallel to and spaced from the mask plane, k being given by ##EQU9## f being the focal length of the lens system, D being the separation in the X direction between the two aperture portions of the mask, L' being given by ##EQU10## k' being given by ##EQU11## .THETA. being the angle of inclination of the light beam relative to the Z direction, and d being the separation in the X direction at the mask plane between the light beam plane and said location midway between the aperture portions. 4. An imaging system according to claim 2, wherein (f) the pixels of said detector also extend in the Y direction and the means for scanning the pixels includes means for scanning them in the Y direction to generate further data on the coordinate of the selected point on the target surface in the Y direction; (g) the mask has at least three aperture portions, two of a first pair of which portions are spaced from each other in at least the X direction and two of another pair of which portions are spaced from each other in at least the Y direction; and (h) the light means includes means for irradiating said target surface including said selected point with at least one further beam that occupies or traces out a narrow strip to define at least one further beam plane inclined to the first beam plane. 5. An imaging system according to claim 4, wherein the mask has four aperture portions arranged in two mutually perpendicular pairs spaced apart respectively in the X and Y directions. 6. An imaging system according to claim 5, wherein said two beams define planes extend at right angles to each other. 7. An imaging system according to claim 6, wherein the planes of said two beams extend respectively in the X and Y directions. 8. An imaging system according to claim 5, wherein said two beams are different from each other in a distinguishable characteristic, the aperture portions of respective said pairs of aperture portions containing filter means for passing only light with a respective such characteristic. 9. An imaging system according to claim 4, wherein the mask has three aperture portions and the light means irradiates the target surface with three beams occupying or tracing out respective narrow strips extending in mutually inclined directions. 