A device for inspecting the support plates and tube sheet of a nuclear steam generator. The device comprises a boom for extending into an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of members, the boom being uprightable within the lane; and a video camera attached to the boom for inspecting the tube members and support plates within the lane when the boom is uprighted. In a preferred embodiment the video camera comprises a charge coupled device affixed to a remotely controlled pan and tilt mechanism.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for inspecting the support plates and tube sheet of a nuclear steam generator comprising: a first boom coupled by a rotatable connector to a second boom, said first and second boom and said rotatable connector being insertable into an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of tube members, said second boom within said lane; and video camera means attached to said second boom for inspecting the tube members and support plates within said lane when said second boom is uprighted. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said boom means comprises at least two telescoping members. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein said boom means comprises a plurality of telescoping members. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein said plurality of telescoping members can extend outward a length of up to approximately thirty-two feet. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein said video camera means is a CCD camera. 6. The device of claim further comprising means for cleaning said tube members and support plates. 7. A device for inspecting the tube sheets and support plates of a nuclear steam generator comprising: a first boom coupled by a rotatable connector to a second boom, said first and second boom and said rotatable connector being insertable through an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of tube members, said tube members being supported by at least one support plate, said rotatable connector being adapted to upright said second boom to a position adjacent to said tube members and said at least one support plates, said second boom having a camera or cleaning means attached thereto such that when said second boom and said camera or cleaning means are rotated upright adjacent to said support plate and said tube members, said at least one support plate and said tube sheet members can be view and examined with said camera or cleaning means. 8. The device of claim 7 wherein said CCD camera is attached to a pan and tilt mechanism affixed to said second boom. 9. The device of claim 7 wherein said second boom means telescopes longitudinally so as to permit the selective longitudinal adjustment of said second boom. 10. The device of claim 8 further comprising means for controlling the pan and tilt means. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein said means for controlling said pan and tilt means is a joy stick. 12. The device of claim 9 further comprising means for extending and retracting said second telescoping boom. 13. A method for inspecting the tube sheet of a steam generator comprising the following steps: inserting a boom through an access port of said steam generator and within a lane separating two rows of tube members, said boom having a camera attached thereto; and uprighting said boom within said lane, separating said rows of tube members, such that said camera is held adjacent to said tube members and support plates and can be inspected by said camera within said lane. 14. The method of claim 13 comprising the additional step of controlling the CCD camera with a pan and tilt means. 15. A device for cleaning the support plates and tube sheet of a nuclear steam generator comprising: a first boom coupled by a rotatable connector to a second boom, said first and second boom and said rotatable connector being insertable into an access port of a steam generator and into a lane separating two rows of tube members, said rotatable connector being adapted to upright said second boom within said lane; and video camera means attached to said boom means for inspecting the tube members and support plates within said lane when said second boom is uprighted. 