A cap for sealing pressure vessels is disclosed. The present invention permits a nominal closure to be formed by hand tightening and a substantially higher force to be applied to a cap by a separate clamp mechanism, thereby forming a pressure seal. In certain preferred embodiments, means for providing a process flow through a hole in the seal and filtering means are also provided as part of the cap assembly. A preferred application of the cap of the present invention is for the sealing of sample vessels used for supercritical fluid extraction of compounds from a solid matrix for subsequent chemical analysis. Methods of supercritical fluid extraction are also disclosed. The present invention thus provides methods and apparatus whereby the placement of a sample into a pressurized system may be automated and monitored to ensure adequate seals have been created and maintained within such pressurized systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cap for sealing a vessel having a shoulder for engaging sealing material comprising: a body portion having a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the distal end extends into the vessel the body portion including details for engaging the vessel; a sealing body comprised of sealing material disposed substantially within said body portion, the sealing body comprising: a distal portion that tapers from a first diameter to a second, smaller diameter at a distal end; and a proximal portion that is selectively engaged with an external force that urges the distal portion of the sealing body into sealing engagement with the shoulder by sliding the sealing body relative to the outer body. 2. The cap of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the sealing body extends into the vessel a greater distance than the distal end of the body portion. 3. The cap of claim 1, further comprising a seal housing containing said sealing body, said seal housing disposed substantially said body portion and being slidably movable with said sealing body relative to said body portion. 4. The cap of claim 3, wherein said body portion includes an opening exposing a face of the seal housing at a proximal end of said seal housing so as to permit the external force to be applied to said seal housing for compressing said sealing body against said shoulder. 5. The cap of claim 3, wherein said body portion, said seal housing and said sealing body have one or more openings running therethrough so as to permit fluid to flow to or from said vessel. 6. The cap of claim 5 further comprising a filter means disposed across said opening. 7. The cap of claim 6 wherein said filter is retained in said cap by surface interaction provided by the geometry of said filter, said sealing body and said body portion. 8. The cap of claim 1, wherein said sealing material is formed of a deformable material. 9. The cap of claim 3, wherein said seal housing is formed of a rigid material. 10. The cap of claim 1 wherein said details comprise threads. 11. The cap of claim 1 wherein said details comprise a snap fastener. 12. The cap of claim 1 wherein said details comprise quick release connection. 13. The cap of claim 1, further comprising venting means for substantially limiting the stress in said details caused by the pressure released from said vessel. 14. The cap of claim 13, wherein said venting means comprise longitudinal slots. 15. The cap of claim 1, further comprising label means for identifying said vessel. 16. The cap of claim 4, wherein said opening is substantially hexagonal. 17. The cap of claim 4, wherein said opening is frusto-conically shaped. 18. Apparatus for sealing a pressurized vessel having tapered section for receiving a seal and means for receiving threads, the apparatus for sealing comprising: (a) a body portion having a distal end and comprising threads; and (b) seal means for mating with said tapered section for receiving a seal, wherein the seal means comprises a distal portion extending beyond the distal end of the body portion that tapers from a first diameter to a second, smaller diameter at a distal end, and a proximal portion that is selectively engaged with an external force, said seal means movable within said body portion, whereby the threads disposed on the body portion are engaged with the means for receiving threads of the vessel and tightened to form a nominal closure, and whereby the external force moves said seal means relative to said body portion and urges said seal means into the vessel and against the tapered section to form a pressurized seal. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising one or more axial bores through said body portion and said seal means. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising means for filtering a fluid disposed across at least one of said axial bores. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising a seal housing disposed between said sealing means and said body portion, and wherein said seal housing has a proximal end for receiving force. 22. A pressurized container for the extraction of components from a solid matrix comprising a pressure vessel, said pressure vessel having a removable cap for creating a high pressure seal, said cap comprising: (a) an outer body portion comprising details for engaging the pressure vessel; and (b) seal means for sealing said pressure vessel disposed substantially within said outer body portion and being movable relative to said outer body portion, the seal means further comprising a distal portion that tapers from a first diameter to a second, smaller diameter at a distal end, and a proximal portion that is selectively engaged with an external force, whereby the threaded portion engages the pressure vessel and creates a nominal seal, and the application of the external force to the seal means moves the seal means relative to the outer body portion and urges the seal means against the vessel to create a high pressure seal. 23. The pressurized container of claim 22 wherein said pressure vessel has at least two ends each sealed by a removable cap. 24. The pressurized container of claim 22, wherein said cap further comprises an axial bore disposed in said body portion and said seal means. 25. The pressurized container of claim 24, wherein said cap further comprises means for filtering a fluid disposed across said bore. 