This invention pertains to an automatic apparatus and method for determining the mass-moment of a blade of a jet engine. It encompasses an elongated weighing beam that is lifted up off both the weighing scale and a fixed fulcrum block during the loading and unloading of the blade with respect to the weighing beam. When measurements are to be taken, the weighing beam, with blade attached, is lowered onto the scale and the fixed fulcrum block. The value measured by the scale is sent to a computer for calculation of the blades' mass-moment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for determining the mass-moment of a blade comprising: a) an elongated weighing beam having a fulcrum knife edge and a scale knife edge, said knife edges being positioned a known, set distance from each other along said beam; b) gripping means secured to said beam for securing the blade to said beam adjacent said scale knife edge; c) a first fulcrum block upon which said fulcrum knife edge rests, said first fulcrum block generally being fixed in position; d) a second scale fulcrum block upon which said scale knife edge rests, said scale fulcrum block being secured to a weighing scale which is used to measure the force applied to said scale fulcrum block by the blade; e) lifting means for selectively raising said beam above both said fulcrum blocks and for selectively lowering said beam upon both said fulcrum blocks; and, f) control means in communication with said weighing scale for determining the mass-moment of the blade. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein the distance between said knife edges is adjustable. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said gripping means are spring biased and comprise support blocks for supporting the blade between said blocks. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said gripping means are normally biased closed and wherein said bias is opposed to open said gripping means for accepting the blade therein. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said lifting means comprise a platform upon which said weighing beam rests when being selectively raised and lowered, said platform being constructed to fit around but not engage said scale fulcrum block during weighing so as to impart no additional load to said beam or to said weighing scale. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 further comprising a counterweight adjacent said fulcrum knife edge and positioned upon said beam at a location opposite the location of the blade. 7. A method of determining the mass-moment of a blade comprising the steps of: a) lifting an elongated weighing beam off both its fixed fulcrum block and its scale fulcrum block; b) securing the blade to one end of said beam, said end being adjacent to said scale fulcrum block; c) lowering said beam, with the blade attached thereto, onto both said fulcrum blocks; d) measuring the load upon said scale fulcrum block by a weighing scale; e) transmitting the value of said load measured by said weighing scale to control means for determining the mass-moment of the blade; f) raising said beam off both said fulcrum blocks; and, g) removing the blade from said beam. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7 further comprising the step of gripping the blade by gripping means for securing the blade to said beam. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8 further comprising the step of depositing said beam upon said blocks without imparting any additional loading to said beam or to said weighing scale during said measuring step. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9 further comprising the step of using robotic means for automatically securing the blade to said beam and for automatically removing the blade from said beam. 11. The method as set forth in claim 10 further comprising the step of counterweighting the blade by locating a counterweight upon said beam opposite the blade. 