A buffing fixture and structure for supporting large and thin metal skins during a finishing operation. The structure includes a plurality of individual form fixtures, at least one trunnion table mounted for rotation along a horizontally disposed axis, and a motor for causing the rotation of the trunnion table. Each of the form fixtures is comprised of a frame having at least one brace which extends outwardly from the frame, a form shell mounted to the frame such that the interior surface is in contact with a longitudinal edge of the brace, and a layer of foam disposed substantially along the entire interior surface of the form shell in order to support the surface area of the form shell. The form shell has a three dimensional shape which follows the three dimensional shape of the metal skin to be finished. A set of straps are also provided in order to removably secure and register the position of the metal skin to the form shell, such that the metal skin lies flush against the exterior surface of the form shell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A structure for supporting a plurality of large and thin metal skins to permit said metal skins to be subjected to a finishing operation, comprising: a plurality of individual fixtures, each of said fixtures having form means for removably supporting substantially an entire side of at least one of said metal skins; at least one trunnion table mounted for rotation along a horizontally disposed axis, said trunnion table having positioning means for removably securing at least one of said fixtures; and motive power means for rotating said trunnion table. 2. The structure of claim 1 wherein each of said form means has a three-dimensional contoured surface corresponding to a unique predetermined contour of one of said metal skins for removably supporting one entire side of said metal skin. 3. The structure of claim 1 further including at least two said trunnion tables mounted for rotation along a common axis. 4. The structure of claim 3 wherein said motive power means further includes separate motor assemblies for each of said trunnion tables and means for controlling the rotation of said trunnion tables, said control means providing: an independent mode wherein said trunnion tables are rotated independent of each other; and a tandem mode wherein said trunnion tables are rotated simultaneously and in synchronization with each other to enable a single fixture to be supported across both of said trunnion tables. 5. The structure of claim 3, wherein each of said trunnion tables includes fluid power actuated means for individually locking each of said trunnion tables into at least one predetermined rotational position. 6. The structure of claim 3, wherein each of said fixtures has projection means for enabling said fixtures to be hung on said trunnion table in a substantially vertical orientation, and said positioning means of said trunnion table includes complementary receptacle means for cooperating with said projection means of said fixtures. 7. The structure of claim 6, wherein said positioning means of said trunnion table further includes a series of two-dimensionally spaced mounting pads for enabling at least one of said fixtures to be removably secured to said trunnion table for rotation, after said fixture has been hung on said trunnion table. 8. The structure of claim 3, wherein each of said trunnion tables includes panel means for enabling the combination of both of said trunnion tables to provide one wall of an enclosure within which said metal skins are subjected to said finishing operation. 9. The structure of claim 1 wherein said positioning means cooperates with said metal skins and said form means to secure said metal skins to said form means while said metal skins are subjected to said finishing operation. 10. The structure of claim 9 wherein said structure has a working side where said finish operation occurs and a loading side, and wherein said trunnion table rotates to selectively expose said fixtures to said working side and said loading side. 11. The structure of claim 9 wherein said positioning means includes: a plurality of index holes on said contoured surface of said form means; at least one fixed location on said metal skin; and means for registering said at least one fixed location to at least one of said plurality of index holes, said registration means securing said metal skin on said form means in a predetermined position. 12. The structure of claim 11 wherein said registration means includes a buckle having a first tab cooperable with said fixed location and a second tab cooperable with said index holes. 13. The structure of claim 12 wherein said registration means includes a means for fixing said buckle with respect to said fixed location and said index holes. 