An apparatus and system for storing and collecting separated solid waste. The apparatus is a chambered container which includes a container body defining a first chamber for receiving a first waste, and a lid covering an open end of the body. The lid includes a base portion for defining a second chamber for receiving a second waste and a cover for covering the base portion. The system further includes a collection vehicle divided into two compartments, a robot arm for hoisting the chambered container up and over the vehicle, and a pair of guide rails for engaging the lid of the container for causing the contents of the first chamber to fall into one compartment of the vehicle and for causing the contents of the second chamber to fall into the other compartment of the vehicle.
Claims I claim: 1. A chambered container for storing separated, solid waste comprising: a container body defining a first chamber therein for receiving a first solid waste; and a lid for covering said container body, said lid being connected to said container body and being movable between a first, closed position closing said first chamber, and a second, open position providing access to said first chamber, and including a flange for seating on an upper edge of said container body to fully close said first chamber when said lid is in said first, closed position, said lid including a base portion for defining a second chamber therein for receiving a second solid waste, said base portion extending into said first chamber when said lid is in said first, closed position, and a cover for covering said base portion, said cover being connected to said base portion and being movable between a first, closed state for closing said second chamber and a second, open state for providing access to said second chamber, said cover seating on said flange to fully close said second chamber when said cover is in said first, closed state. 2. The chambered container of claim 1 wherein said lid further includes drain means for draining water or other liquid from said second chamber. 3. The chambered container of claim 1 wherein said cover is dome-shaped to define a portion of said second chamber when said cover is in its first, closed state, said cover extending outside of said first chamber when said lid is in its first, closed position. 4. The chambered container of claim 1 wherein said container body is of generally cylindrical shape. 5. A chambered container for storing separated, solid waste comprising: a container body defining a first chamber therein for receiving a first solid waste; and a lid for covering said container body, said lid being connected to said container body and being movable between a first, closed position closing said first chamber, and a second, open position providing access to said first chamber, said lid including a base portion for defining a second chamber therein for receiving a second solid waste, said base portion extending into said first chamber when said lid is in said first, closed position, and a cover for covering said base portion, said cover being connected to said base portion and being movable between a first, closed state for closing said second chamber and a second, open state for providing access to said second chamber, and further including first hinge means for connecting said lid to said container body for pivotal movement between said first, closed position closing said first chamber, and said second, open position for providing access to said first chamber; and second hinge means for connecting said cover to said base portion for pivotal movement between said first, closed state closing said second chamber, and said second, open state for providing access to said second chamber, said first and second hinge means being on the same side of said container. 6. The chambered container of claim 5 wherein said first and second hinge means include common hinge structure shared by said first and second hinge means. 7. A chambered container for storing separated, solid waste comprising: a container body defining a first chamber therein for receiving a first solid waste; a lid for covering said first chamber, said lid including means for defining a second chamber therein for receiving a second solid waste, said lid comprising a base portion for defining said second chamber and a cover for covering said second chamber; and drain means for draining water or other liquid from said second chamber, said drain means including a drain tube extending from said base portion, and wherein said container body includes a hole in a wall thereof for receiving said drain tube when said lid is in its first, closed position. 8. The chambered container of claim 7 wherein said drain tube extends outwardly from a side wall of said base portion, and wherein said hole in said container body is in a side wall of said container body. 9. A chambered container for storing separated materials comprising: a container body defining a first chamber therein for storing a first material; and a lid connected to said container body by first hinge means for covering said container body and being pivotally movable between a first, closed position closing said first chamber, and a second, open position providing access to said first chamber, said lid including a base portion extending into said first chamber when said lid is in said first, closed position for defining a second chamber therein for storing a second material, and a cover connected to said base portion by second hinge means for covering said base portion, said cover being pivotally movable between a first, closed state for closing said second chamber and a second, open state for providing access to said second chamber, wherein said first and second hinge means are on the same side of said container and share common hinge structure. 10. The chambered container of claim 9 wherein said cover is dome-shaped to define a portion of said second chamber when said cover is in its first, closed state, said cover extending outside of said first chamber when said lid is in its first, closed position. 11. The chambered container of claim 9 wherein said lid includes an annular flange for seating on an upper edge of said container body to fully close said first chamber when said lid is in said first, closed position. 12. The chambered container of claim 11 wherein said cover seats on said annular flange to fully close said second chamber when said cover is in said first, closed state. 