An apparatus (10) for visually aligning parts (13) for placement using one camera (18) comprises a device (12) for picking and placing a part on an object (15), a device (24, 26 & 28) for moving and removing optics (30, 36, 38) into and out of a work envelope having the object, a device (18, 40, 42 & 44) for locating landmarks on the object within the work envelope, and a device for aligning the part with the landmark in the work envelope.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for visually aligning parts for placement using one camera, comprising: means for picking and placing a part on an object within a work envelop; means for moving and removing optics into and out of the work envelop having the object; means for locating landmarks on the object within the work envelope; means for aligning the part with the landmark in the work envelope. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for aligning the part with the landmark comprises a superimposition of a part image with an object image. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the part comprises an electronic component. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a printed circuit board. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the landmarks comprises solder pads. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus further comprises means for confirming the actual placement of the part on a desired location using the camera. 7. An apparatus for visually aligning parts for placement using one camera, comprising: means for picking and placing a part on an object within a work envelop; means for moving and removing optics into and out of the work envelop having the object; means for concurrently locating landmarks on the object and aligning the part with the landmark within the work envelope. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the means for concurrently locating landmarks comprises a superimposition of a part image with an object image. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the part comprises an electronic component. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the object comprises a printed circuit board. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the landmarks comprises fiducials. 12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the landmarks comprises solder pads. 13. An apparatus for visually aligning parts for placement using one camera, comprising: a robotic gripper for picking and placing a part on an object; means for concurrently superimposing landmarks on the part and on the object so as to align the part and the object in a work envelope. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the apparatus further comprises means for moving and removing optics into and out of the work envelope having the object. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the means for superimposing landmarks comprises lights for reflecting an image off the part and off the object, a beam splitter, and a mirror. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the means for superimposing landmarks comprises a backlight for producing an image off the part and a second light for producing an image off the object, a beam splitter, and a mirror. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the part comprises an electronic component. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the object comprises a printed circuit board. 19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the landmarks comprises fiducials. 20. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the landmarks comprises solder pads. 