A robotic substrate manipulator constructed for substrate handling during thin film deposition in the vacuum of outer space. The robotic substrate manipulator includes a cassette holding a plurality of substrates preferably including six cassettes in a carousel. A circular cylinder encloses the carousel with an access door at a location accessible by a manipulator arm assembly. Substrates are retained within the cassette via a passive retention system. This manipulator arm assembly includes an arm with a gripper at one end. The gripper includes a pair of opposed fingers normally urged closed by at least one finger spring that may be opened by a solenoid. The manipulator arm assembly includes a vertical driver and a horizontal rotary driver permitting motion of substrates from the cassette to a processing station. Position gauges on both the vertical motion driver and the horizontal rotary motion driver permit feedback regarding the manipulator arm assembly position. In the preferred embodiment the processing station employs the vacuum of space in thin film deposition.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic substrate manipulator comprising: a cassette including a plurality of substrate holding locations disposed in a stacked relationship having a predetermined height along at least one stack axis, each substrate holding location capable of holding a single substrate; a two-axis manipulator arm assembly including an arm having a first end with a gripper thereon adapted to grip and hold a substrate and a second end opposite to said first end, a vertical driver coupled to said arm proximate to said second end for selective movement of said arm parallel to said stack axis through a range of movement including at least said predetermined height of said cassette, a horizontal rotary driver having a pivot axis parallel to said stack axis, and coupled to said arm proximate said second end for selective rotation of said arm about said pivot axis through a range of rotation for movement of said gripper in an arc about said pivot axis including at least a first position where said gripper may grip a substrate disposed in said cassette and a second position where any substrate held by said gripper is clear of said cassette; and a processing station axially aligned with the cassette at one end thereof and including a single substrate holding location disposed within said range of movement of said vertical driver and within said range of rotation of said horizontal rotary driver. 2. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of the substrates is a circular disk, and wherein: each said plurality of substrate holding locations of said cassette includes a plurality of fixed holders disposed to engage respective portions of the edge of any substrate disposed in said substrate holding location, a movable holder disposed for motion perpendicular to the edge of any substrate disposed in said substrate holding location, and a holding spring connected to said movable holder for urging said movable holder toward the edge of any substrate disposed in said substrate holding location, whereby a substrate disposed in said substrate holding location is passively retained by said movable holder via said holding spring, and a substrate may be loaded into or removed from said substrate holding location by overcoming said holding spring. 3. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said cassette consists of a plurality of substrate holding location stacks, and a stack movement means connected to said plurality of substrate holding location stacks for moving a selected substrate holding stack to a predetermined location accessible by said manipulator arm assembly. 4. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 3, wherein: said cassette including a circular carousel having said plurality of substrate holding location stacks disposed along the periphery thereof, and said stack movement means consists of a carousel motor coupled to said circular carousel for rotary motion of said circular carousel to move a selected substrate holding stack to said predetermined location accessible by said manipulator arm assembly. 5. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 4, wherein: said cassette further includes anti-vibration mounting of said circular carousel. 6. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 4: wherein said plurality of substrate holding location stacks consist of six substrate holding location stacks disposed at equal distances along the periphery of said carousel. 7. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 4, further comprising: a circular cylinder having said carousel disposed therein and having an access opening therein at said predetermined location accessible by said manipulator arm assembly. 8. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a barrier separating said cassette from said processing station having a processing access opening therein permitting entry of a substrate via said manipulator arm assembly; a door disposed at said processing access opening of said barrier; and a door operator coupled to said door for moving said door between a closed position covering said processing access opening and an opened position permitting manipulator arm assembly access to said processing station. 9. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: a vacuum chamber enclosing said cassette and said manipulator arm assembly, said vacuum chamber including said barrier and said door whereby when said door is closed vacuum may be maintained at said plurality of substrate holding locations; and said processing station is vented to the external environment. 10. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 9, wherein: said door operator includes passive means for retaining said door in said closed position. 11. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said passive means of said door operator for retaining said door in said closed position includes a compound lever capable of cam over and a stop limiting the range of movement of said compound lever past cam over. 12. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said gripper includes a pair of opposed fingers, at least one finger spring for urging said opposed fingers closed, and a solenoid disposed to open said opposed fingers when energized. 13. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said solenoid comprises a fixed solenoid coil and an armature movable in response to energization of the solenoid coil; the at least one spring coupled to the armature for urging the armature in a direction opposing movement by the energization of the solenoid coil; and link means for coupling the armature to the fingers for opening the fingers when the armature moves in response to coil energization and for urging the fingers closed under spring force. 14. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said vertical driver includes an external screw disposed on a line parallel to said at least one stack axis, a mating internal screw disposed on said arm to engage said external screw, and a vertical drive motor disposed for bidirectional rotation of said external screw to move said arm up and down parallel to said at least one stack axis. 15. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 14, wherein: said vertical driver further includes a vertical position gauge for indicating the vertical position of said arm. 16. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said vertical position gauge includes a rotary encoder coupled to said vertical drive motor. 17. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 14, wherein: said horizontal rotary driver includes a first gear disposed for rotation about said pivot axis having said external screw disposed thereon, a second gear engaging said first gear, and a horizontal drive motor coupled for bidirectional rotation of said second gear to rotate said arm about said pivot axis. 18. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 17, wherein: said horizontal rotary driver further includes a horizontal rotary position gauge for indicating the rotary position of said arm. 19. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 18, wherein: said horizontal rotary position gauge includes a rotary encoder coupled to said vertical drive motor. 20. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 14, wherein said horizontal rotary driver includes a cam having a cam surface with first, second and third cam faces, a cam follower disposed to follow said cam surface of said cam, a lever arm coupled to said cam follower and said arm for rotation of said arm about said pivot axis, and a horizontal drive motor coupled for bidirectional rotation of said cam to rotate said arm about said pivot axis, whereby said arm is rotated to a first position with any substrate held by said gripper clear of said cassette when said cam follower rests on said first cam face, said arm is rotated to a second position for accessing a substrate in said cassette when said cam follower rests on said second cam face, and said arm is rotated to a third position for accessing a substrate in said processing station when said cam follower rests on said third cam face. 21. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a force detector disposed on said manipulator arm for detecting insertion force on any substrate held in said gripper. 22. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 21, wherein: said force detector is disposed to measure the torque on a shaft of said horizontal drive motor. 23. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said processing station further includes a heater disposed to heat any substrate disposed in said single substrate holding location. 24. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said single substrate holding location includes a plurality of spring holders disposed to engage respective portions of the edge of any substrate disposed in said single substrate holding location, and a gripper notch disposed in the periphery of said single substrate holding location for accommodating a portion of said gripper during loading and unloading of said single substrate holding location; whereby a substrate disposed in said single substrate holding location is passively retained by said plurality of spring holders, and a substrate may be loaded into or removed from said single substrate holding location by overcoming said plurality of spring holders. 25. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said robotic substrate manipulator is adapted to be disposed in a vacuum. 26. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 25, wherein: said robotic substrate manipulator is constructed of low offgassing materials. 27. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 26, wherein: said robot substrate manipulator is constructed without lubricants. 28. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 26, wherein: said robotic substrate manipulator is constructed with nonhydrocarbon lubricants. 29. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said single substrate holding location includes a plurality of spring holders disposed about a holder axis to engage respective portions of the edge of any substrate disposed in said single substrate holding location, and means for rotating the spring holders about the holder axis; whereby a substrate disposed in said single substrate holding location is passively retained by said plurality of spring holders for rotation within the holding locations, and a substrate may be loaded into or removed from said single substrate holding location by overcoming said plurality of spring holders. 30. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said single substrate holding location includes a heater mounted adjacent the spring holders and disposed to heat any substrate disposed in said single substrate holding location. 31. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said single substrate holding location includes a heater mounted on the means for rotating the spring holders for rotation therewith and disposed to heat any substrate disposed in said single substrate holding location. 32. A robotic substrate manipulator comprising: a cassette including a circular carousel having a plurality of substrate holding location stacks disposed along the periphery thereof, each substrate holding location stack having a plurality of substrate holding locations disposed in a stacked relationship having a predetermined height along a corresponding stack axis, each substrate holding location capable of holding a single substrate, said carousel capable of rotary motion to move a selected substrate holding stack to a predetermined location; a circular cylinder having said carousel disposed therein and having an access opening therein at said predetermined location accessible by a two-axis manipulator arm assembly; a processing station including a single substrate holding location axially aligned with the carousel; the said two-axis manipulator arm assembly including an arm having a first end with a gripper including a pair of opposed fingers, at least one finger spring for urging said opposed fingers closed, and a solenoid disposed to open said opposed fingers when energized, said arm having a second end opposite to said first end, a vertical driver coupled to said arm proximate to said second end for selective movement of said arm parallel to said stack axis through a range of movement encompassing the single substrate location and the substrate holding locations, a horizontal rotary driver having a pivot axis parallel to said stack axis, and coupled to said arm proximate said second end for selective rotation of said arm about said pivot axis through a range of rotation including at least a first position where said gripper may grip a substrate disposed in said cassette and a second position where any substrate held by said gripper is clear of said cassette and a third position where a substrate held by the gripper is disposed in the single substrate holding location; a barrier separating said cassette from said processing station having a processing access opening therein permitting entry of a substrate via said manipulator arm assembly; a door disposed at said processing access opening of said barrier; a door operator coupled to said door for moving said door between a closed position covering said processing access opening and an opened position permitting manipulator arm assembly access to said processing station. 33. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 32, wherein: said vertical driver includes an external screw disposed on a line parallel to said at least one stack axis, a mating internal screw disposed on said arm to engage said external screw, and a vertical drive motor disposed for bidirectional rotation of said external screw to move said arm up and down parallel to said at least one stack axis, a vertical position gauge for indicating the vertical position of said arm; and said horizontal rotary driver includes a first gear disposed for rotation about said pivot axis having said external screw disposed thereon, a second gear engaging said first gear, a horizontal drive motor coupled for bidirectional rotation of said second gear to rotate said arm about said pivot axis, and a horizontal rotary position gauge for indicating the rotary position of said arm. 34. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 32, further comprising: a vacuum chamber enclosing said cassette and said manipulator arm assembly, said vacuum chamber including said barrier and said door whereby when said door is closed vacuum may be maintained at said plurality of substrate holding locations; and said processing station is vented to the external environment. 35. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 34, wherein: said door operator includes passive means for retaining said door in said closed position. 36. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 35, wherein: said passive means of said door operator for retaining said door in said closed position includes a compound lever capable of cam over and a stop limiting the range of movement of said compound lever past cam over. 37. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 32, wherein: said robotic substrate manipulator is constructed of low offgassing materials. 38. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 37, wherein: said robotic substrate manipulator is constructed without lubricants. 39. The robotic substrate manipulator as claimed in claim 37, wherein: said robotic substrate manipulator is constructed with nonhydrocarbon lubricants. 