A servo system for controlling locomotion of a biped walking robot to follow up a target angle for each drive predetermined in series with respect to time. The control is stabilized by reducing the load on the on-board computer through the provision of an analog circuit for velocity control which has to be carried out in short control cycle and a digital circuit for positional control which can be carried out in relatively long control cycle. For reducing the control deviation to substantially zero, open-loop control is adopted for the motor angular velocity so as to prevent delay from arising in the joint angle control and position feedback control is conducted only in case where a deviation arises between the target joint angle and the actual joint angle owing to external disturbance or the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling the locomotion of a legged walking robot having a body link and a plurality of leg linkages each connected to the body link by a first drive joint and each including at least a second drive joint connecting an upper link and a lower link thereof, comprising: a servo motor for driving the individual joints; first digital closed-loop positional control means for calculating a deviation between a target joint angle and a real joint angle and for multiplying the deviation by a gain to determine a first velocity command to be applied to an inner analog velocity closed loop; and second digital open-loop velocity control means for outputting a second velocity command to be added to the first velocity command in response to a change rate of the target joint angle. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein the target joint angle is predetermined in series with respect to time and said second digital open-loop velocity control means determines the second velocity command based on a deviation between target joint angles at a time t and at a time t+1. 3. A system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the robot is a biped walking robot. 4. A controller of a servo motor for a robotic joint, comprising: a digital positional closed-loop for determining a velocity command to be applied to an inner analog velocity closed loop, by multiplying a deviation between a target joint angle and an actual joint angle by a gain; and a digital velocity open-loop for determining a second velocity command to be added to the first velocity command from a time derivative of the target joint angle multiplied by a gain. 5. The controller according to claim 4, wherein the time derivative is a value between the joint target angles at a time t and at a time t+1. 