A semi-automatic system for finishing a conductor wire harness permits an operator to secure contact elements to ends of conductor wires in a bundle and to insert secured contact elements into a connnector member in a computer aided manner. For this purpose the system has at least one desk type work station for an operator and a harness carrier for holding at least one conductor harness that was assembled, but not finished on a form board. The harness carrier is constructed as a platform for supporting the semifinished conductor harness. The platform is mounted on a movable support in a rotatable manner and for transporting the platform along a factory floor into a position for cooperation with the work station which includes an insulation stripper, a combined contact attachment device and crimper, a connector member clamping device, and a guide beam generator, all of which are computer controlled.
Claims What I claim is: 1. A system for finishing a conductor wire harness, comprising at least one work station for an operator, said work station including work performing means for securing contact elements to ends of conductors in a bundle and means for inserting secured contact elements into a connector member, and a harness carrier for holding at least one conductor harness, said harness carrier comprising a platform for supporting a conductor harness, and movable support means on which said platform means is mounted in a rotatable manner and for transporting said platform along a floor into a position for cooperation with said work station, said work station comprising a recess into which said support means are movable for bringing said platform into said position for cooperation with said work performing means of said work station. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said work performing means of said work station comprises a computer for coordinating and working operations, an insulation stripper, a crimper, a computer controlled guide beam device for indicating to an operator a spot where a contact element is to be inserted into a connector member, and a clamping device for positioning said connector member on said platform means. 3. The system of claim 1, work said work station further comprises a cut-out for an operator to reach said conductor ends for performing work steps on said conductor ends. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said recess and said cut-out are positioned opposite each other in a table top of said work station. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said movable support means of said platform means comprises a vertical column, means for operatively securing said platform means to said vertical column, a foot to which said column is secured, and roller means secured to said foot for transporting said platform means on its column into said position for cooperation. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said platform means is a turntable which is rotatable about a vertical axis of said column. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a substantially cylindrical winding core on said platform means for winding a wire harness around said winding core. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said substantially cylindrical winding core comprises a plurality of vertical core rods, said platform means comprising a number of bores for holding said core rods, and wherein said bores are arranged in at least one circle on said platform means for forming said substantially cylindrical winding core. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said bores are arranged along at least two concentric circles so that substantially cylindrical winding cores of two different diameters can be formed by inserting said core rods into bores of one or the other circle of bores. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein said rods are inserted at uniform angular spacings from one another. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein said bores are sockets in said platform means. 12. The system of claim 5, wherein said vertical column comprises means for adjusting a vertical position of said platform means 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of clamping members on said platform means for holding individual conductor wires of said harness in position 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said clamping members are angularly spaced from each other near a circumference of said platform means. 15. The system of claim 2, wherein said work performing means are arranged in or on a table top of said work station in a sequence corresponding to the sequence of work steps: insulation removal, contact element attachment, crimping, and insertion of crimped contact elements into said connector member. 