A system of assembling devices to substrates is disclosed. A pattern of lines and/or dots of bonding medium is formed on a substrate to provide a uniform support for the device. Apparatus and a method for applying the bonding medium to the substrates is also disclosed. The bonding medium is applied to the substrates with transfer surfaces formed on a movable tool. The transfer surfaces are formed in a configuration that matches a desired pattern of the lines and/or dots of the bonding medium. Also, an assembly method is disclosed in which devices are pressed onto the adhesive lines and/or dots with an assembly tool that is moved with a precisely controlled force. In addition apparatus and a method of curing an adhesive interface between the assembled devices and substrates is disclosed. Use of the curing apparatus and method limits any relative lateral movement between the devices and the substrates during curing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for facilitating the bonding of a semiconductor device to a substrate via an adhesive interface therebetween, said apparatus comprising: means for supporting the substrate; means for moving the semiconductor device relative to the substrate; the moving means having a driven member and a floating member; the driven member and the floating member being coupled to each other with at least two substantially square leaf springs which are displaced from each other to form a coupling that causes the floating member to move on an axis that is essentially parallel to an axis of movement of the driven member when there is relative movement between the driven member and the floating member; the floating member being adapted to hold the semiconductor device; the driven member having an optical distance sensor coupled thereto; the optical distance sensor being adapted to measure a displacement of the floating member relative to the driven member; and the optical distance sensor being coupled to control means adapted to move the driven member to place the semiconductor device into contact with an adhesive interface formed on the substrate and continue the movement of the driven member until the optical distance sensor has measured a predetermined displacement of the floating member relative to the driven member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the leaf springs have a thickness less than about 0.010 inch and the predetermined relative movement between the floating member and the driven member is limited to less than about 0.05 inch whereby the force on the semiconductor device is controlled to vary no more than about 0.5 grams during placement of the semiconductor device onto the adhesive interface. 