Miniaturized linear electrostatic motor comprising a plurality of parallel stators and a flexible rotor disposed between adjacent stators. The stators may be fabricated by depositing a plurality of conductive electrodes on each facing surface of the stator or the electrodes may alternatively be placed on the flexible rotor element. The electrodes are selectively energized by a commutating circuit in a manner to effect movement of the rotor relative to the stator in a perpendicular to parallel motion. The electrostatic motor is particularly suitable for fabrication using photo-lithographic techniques and the formation of multi-layered, concatenated motor structures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electric linear actuator comprising: a plurality of substantially parallel stators; a flexible rotor disposed between at least two of the plurality of a substantially parallel stators; and a signal generator to generate a sequence of drive signals to generate electromagnetic fields between the stators and the rotor to effect a progressive transfer of the flexible rotor between the stators such that the rotor is transferred in a progressive manner in a direction substantially perpendicular to the stators from one stator to another stator to produce a motion of the rotor in a direction substantially parallel to the stator to provide a perpendicular to parallel motion. 2. The electric linear actuator of claim 1 wherein each stator has a set of electrodes disposed on a surface facing another one of the substantially parallel plurality of stators and wherein the sequence of drive signals is coupled to the electrodes. 3. The electric linear actuator of claim 2 wherein the flexible rotor comprises a plastic film covered on two sides with a thin conductive layer. 4. The electric linear actuator of claim 2 wherein the flexible rotor comprises a thin flexible sheet having a plurality of perforations forming a screen-like structure. 5. The electric linear actuator of claim 1 wherein the stators are configured in a series structure and a plurality of rotors are disposed between the stators to form a series concatenated structure. 6. The electric linear actuator of claim 1 wherein the plurality of substantially parallel stators are arranged in a series-parallel configuration and a plurality of rotors are arranged in a series-parallel configuration and disposed between the stators to form a series-parallel concatenated structure. 7. The electric linear actuator of claim 2 wherein the rotor comprises a flexible conductive element which is maintained at a constant electrical potential and the signal generator comprises a switching circuit which generates drive signals as a sequence of rectangular voltage waveforms. 8. The electric linear actuator of claim 2 wherein the rotor comprises a central portion coupled to a load extension and to at least one flexible side extension. 9. The electric linear actuator of claim 2 wherein the electrodes are covered with an insulating layer. 10. The electric linear actuator of claim 2 wherein the rotor comprises a thin flexible conductive sheet covered with a layer of insulator. 11. The electric linear actuator of claim 1 wherein the rotor has a set of electrodes disposed thereon and wherein the sequence of drive signals is coupled to the electrodes. 12. The electric linear actuator of claim 11 wherein each of the stator comprises a conductive element maintained at a constant electrical potential and is covered with a thin insulating layer. 13. The electric linear actuator of claim 11 wherein the rotor comprises a thin flexible sheet having a plurality of perforations through the sheet. 14. The electric linear actuator of claim 11 wherein the electrodes are covered with an insulating layer. 15. The electric linear actuator of claim 11 wherein the stators are configured in a series structure and a plurality of rotors are disposed between the stators to form a series concatenated structure. 16. The electric linear actuator of claim 11 wherein the plurality of substantially parallel stators are arranged in a series-parallel configuration and a plurality of rotors are arranged in the series-parallel configuration and disposed between the stators to form a series-parallel concatenated structure. 17. The electric linear actuator of claim 1 further comprising sense means for sensing rotor position and wherein the signal generator comprises commutation means for generating the sequence of drive signals responsive to the sense means. 18. The electric linear actuator of claim 17 wherein the sense means comprises a set of contacts located on the rotor. 19. An electric actuator comprising: a plurality of substantial parallel stators spaced apart from each other; a flexible rotor disposed between at least two of the stators; and means for activating progressive transfer of the rotor between the stators such that the rotor is transferred in a progressive manner in a direction substantially perpendicular to the stator from one stator to another stator to produce a motion of the rotor in a direction substantially parallel to the stators. 