A force sensor and related method for determining force components. The force sensor includes a deformable medium having a contact surface against which a force can be applied, a signal generator for generating signals that travel through the deformable medium to the contact surface, a signal receptor for receiving the signal reflected from the contact surface, a generation controller, a reception controller, and a force determination apparatus. The signal generator has one or more signal generation regions for generating the signals. The generation controller selects and activates the signal generation regions. The signal receptor has one or more signal reception regions for receiving signals and for generating detections signals in response thereto. The reception controller selects signal reception regions and detects the detection signals. The force determination apparatus measures signal transit time by timing activation and detection and, optionally, determines force components for selected cross-field intersections. The timer which times by activation and detection can be any means for measuring signal transit time. A cross-field intersection is defined by the overlap of a signal generation region and a signal reception region.
Claims I claim: 1. A force sensor comprising: (a) a deformable medium which is deformable in response to a force applied to a contact surface of said deformable medium, (b) a signal generator comprising a plurality of signal generation regions, (c) generation control means for selecting and activating said signal generation regions, (d) a signal receptor comprising a plurality of signal reception regions, (e) a reception control means for selecting said signal reception regions and detecting a detection signal from a selected signal reception region, and (f) a force determination means; wherein: (i) a signal generation region is a means for generating a signal which is transmitted to at least one of said signal reception regions by reflection from said contact surface, (ii) a signal reception region is a means for receiving a signal which has been generated by and transmitted from at least one of said signal generation regions and reflected from said contact surface, and for generating a detection signal in response to the reception of said reflected signal; (iii) activation by (c) of a signal generation region selected by (c) causes said activated signal generation region to generate a signal as provided in (i); (iv) (a), (b) and (d) are adapted and positioned with respect to each other such that an application of said force to said contact surface of said deformable medium alters the distance traveled by a signal from at least one of said signal generation regions to at least one of said signal reception regions and, therefore, alters the signal's transit time; (v) said signal generation regions overlap with said signal reception regions to form a plurality of cross-field intersections; (vi) selection and activation by (c) of a signal generation region and selection by (e) of a signal reception region defines a selected cross-field intersection; and (vii) said force determination means is a means for measuring a signal's transit time by timing activation by (c) and detection by (e). 2. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein said force determination means further comprises a means for determining a force component for a selected cross-field intersection. 3. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein: (viii) said signal generation regions are ultrasonic transducers. 4. A force sensor in accordance with claim 3 wherein: (ix) said signal reception regions are ultrasonic transducers. 5. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein: (viii) said signal reception regions are ultrasonic transducers. 6. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein: (viii) the signal referred to in (i), (ii) and (iii) is an acoustic signal. 7. A force sensor in accordance with claim 6 wherein: (ix) said signal reception region means for generating a detection signal is a means for transforming the received acoustic signal of (ii) into an electrical signal; (x) said electrical signal serves as said detection signal; and (xi) said reception control means for detecting a detection signal is a means for detecting said electrical signal. 8. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein: (viii) the signal referred to in (i), (ii) and (iii) is an optical signal. 9. A force sensor in accordance with claim 8 wherein: (ix) said signal reception region means for generating a detection signal is a means for transforming the received optical signal of (ii) into an electrical signal; (x) said electrical signal serves as said detection signal; and (xi) said reception control means for detecting a detection signal is a means for detecting said electrical signal. 10. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein (viii) said signal generation regions are in the form of rows which are substantially parallel to each other; and (ix) said signal reception regions are in the form of columns which are substantially parallel to each other. 11. A force sensor in accordance with claim 10 wherein (x) said rows are substantially perpendicular to said columns. 12. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein (viii) a signal generation region is an ultrasonic transducer comprised of a piezoelectric layer positioned between an electrode and an isolation layer. 13. A force sensor in accordance with claim 12 wherein (ix) a signal reception region is an ultrasonic transducer comprised of a piezoelectric layer positioned between an electrode and an isolation layer. 14. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein: (viii) a signal reception region is an ultrasonic transducer comprised of a piezoelectric layer positioned between an electrode and an isolation layer. 15. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein said signal generator comprises a plurality of signal generation strata each having at least one of said signal generation regions. 16. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein said signal receptor comprises a plurality of signal reception strata each having at least one of said signal generation regions. 17. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein cross-field intersections can be selected in turn to determine a plurality of force components over said contact surface. 18. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein individual cross-field intersections can be repeatedly selected and force components therefor repeatedly determined to measure force component changes over time. 19. A force sensor in accordance with claim 1 wherein: (viii) said signal generation regions are ultrasonic transducers; (ix) said signal reception regions are ultrasonic transducers; (x) the signal referred to in (i), (ii) and (iii) is an acoustic signal; (xi) said signal reception region means for generating a detection signal is a means for transforming the received acoustic signal of (ii) into an electrical signal; (xii) said electrical signal serves as said detection signal; (xiii) said reception control means for detecting a detection signal is a means for detecting said electrical signal; (xiv) said signal generation regions are in the form of rows which are substantially parallel to each other; and (xv) said signal reception regions are in the form of columns which are substantially parallel to each other. 20. A force sensor in accordance with claim 19 wherein: (xvi) cross-field intersections can be selected in turn to determine a plurality of force components over said contact surface; and (xvii) individual cross-field intersections can be repeatedly selected and force components therefor repeatedly determined to measure force component changes over time. 21. A force sensor in accordance with claim 20 wherein: (xviii) a signal generation region is an ultrasonic transducer comprised of a piezoelectric layer positioned between an electrode and an isolation layer; and (xix) a signal reception region is an ultrasonic transducer comprised of a piezoelectric layer positioned between an electrode and an isolation layer. 22. A force sensor comprising: (a) a deformable medium which is deformable in response to a force applied to a contact surface of said deformable medium, (b) a signal generator comprised of overlapping signal generation strata; wherein a signal generation stratum is comprised of at least one signal generation region, (c) a generation control means for selecting and activating the signal generation regions of said signal generation strata, (d) a signal receptor comprised of signal reception strata; wherein a signal reception stratum is comprised of at least one signal reception region, (e) a reception control means for selecting the signal reception regions of said signal reception strata and for detecting a detection signal from a selected signal reception region, and (f) a force determination means; wherein: (i) a signal generation region is a means for generating a signal which is transmitted to at least one of said signal reception regions by reflection from said contact surface, (ii) a signal reception region is a means for receiving a signal which has been generated by and transmitted from at least one of said signal generation regions and reflected from said contact surface, and for generating a detection signal in response to the reception of said reflected signal; (iii) activation by (c) of a signal generation region selected by (c) causes said activated signal generation region to generate a signal as provided in (i); (iv) (a), (b) and (d) are adapted and positioned with respect to each other such that an application of said force to said contact surface of said deformable medium alters the distance traveled by a signal from at least one of said signal generation regions to at least one of said signal reception regions and, therefore, alters the signal's transit time; (v) said signal generation regions overlap with said signal reception regions to form a plurality of cross-field intersections; (vi) selection and activation by (c) of a signal generation region and selection by (e) of a signal reception region defines a selected cross-field intersection; and (vii) said force determination means is a means for measuring a signal's transit time by timing activation by (c) and detection by (e). 23. A force sensor in accordance with claim 22 wherein said force determination means further comprises a means for determining a force component for a selected cross-field intersection. 24. A force sensor in accordance with claim 22 wherein: (viii) overlapping signal generation regions are acoustically in series. 25. A force sensor in accordance with claim 22 wherein: (viii) overlapping signal reception regions are acoustically in series. 26. A force sensor in accordance with claim 22 wherein: (viii) said signal generation regions are ultrasonic transducers; and (ix) said signal reception regions are ultrasonic transducers. 27. A force sensor in accordance with claim 26 wherein: (x) the signal referred to in (i), (ii) and (iii) is an acoustic signal. 28. A force sensor in accordance with claim 27 wherein: (xi) said signal reception region means for generating a detection signal is a means for transforming the received acoustic signal of (ii) into an electrical signal; (xii) said electrical signal serves as said detection signal; and (xiii) said reception control means for detecting a detection signal is a means for detecting said electrical signal. 29. A force sensor in accordance with claim 28 wherein (xiv) said signal generation regions are in the form of rows which are substantially parallel to each other; and (xv) said signal reception regions are in the form of columns which are substantially parallel to each other. 30. A force sensor in accordance with claim 29 wherein (xvi) said rows are substantially perpendicular to said columns. 31. A force sensor in accordance with claim 28 wherein (xiv) a signal generation region is an ultrasonic transducer comprised of a piezoelectric layer positioned between an electrode and an isolation layer; and (xv) a signal reception region is an ultrasonic transducer comprised of a piezoelectric layer positioned between an electrode and an isolation layer. 32. A force sensor in accordance with claim 22 wherein cross-field intersections can be selected in turn to determine a plurality of force components over said contact surface. 33. A force sensor in accordance with claim 32 wherein individual cross-field intersections can be repeatedly selected and force components therefor repeatedly determined to measure force component changes over time. 34. A force sensor comprising: (a) a deformable medium which is deformable in response to a force applied to a contact surface of said deformable medium, (b) a signal generator comprising at least one signal generation region, (c) a generation control means for selecting and activating said at least one signal generation region, (d) a signal receptor comprising at least one signal reception region, (e) a reception control means for selecting said at least one signal reception region and detecting a detection signal from a selected signal reception region, and (f) a force determination means; wherein: (i) a signal generation region is a means for generating a signal which is transmitted to said at least one signal reception region by reflection from said contact surface, (ii) a signal reception region is a means for receiving a signal which has been generated by and transmitted from said at least one signal generation region and reflected from said contact surface, and for generating a detection signal in response to the reception of said reflected signal; (iii) activation by (c) of said at least one signal generation region selected by (c) causes said activated signal generation region to generate a signal as provided in (i); (iv) (a), (b) and (d) are adapted and positioned with respect to each other such that an application of said force to said contact surface of said deformable medium alters the distance traveled by a signal from said at least one signal generation region to said at least one signal reception region and, therefore, alters the signal's transit time; (v) said at last one signal generation region overlaps said with at least one signal reception region to form at least one cross-field intersection; (vi) selection and activation by (c) of said at least one signal generation region and selection by (e) of said at least one signal reception region defines a selected cross-field intersection; and (vii) said force determination means is a means for measuring a signal's transit time by timing activation by (c) and detection by (e). 35. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34 wherein said force determination means further comprises a means for determining a force component for a selected cross-field intersection. 36. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34, wherein: (viii) said at least one signal generation region is an ultrasonic transducer that generates an acoustic signal; and (ix) said at least one signal reception region is an ultrasonic transducer that receives said acoustic signal and generates a detection signal in respoonse thereto. 37. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34 wherein: (viii) said at least one signal generation region is in the form of a row, and (ix) said at least one signal generation region is in the form of a column. 38. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34 wherein said at least one cross-field intersection can be repeatedly selected and force components therefor repeatedly determined to measure force component changes over time. 39. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34 wherein said at least one signal generation region is tapered. 40. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34 wherein said at least one signal generation region is wedge-shaped. 41. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34 wherein said at least one signal reception region is circular. 42. A force sensor in accordance with claim 34 wherein said at least one signal generation region is circular. 43. A method for determining force components of a force applied to a contact surface of a deformable medium, said method comprising: (a) selection of a signal generation region by a generation control means and selection of a signal reception region by a reception control means, thereby defining a selected cross-field intersection; (b) activation by said generation control means of said selected generation control means to generate a signal, (c) transmitting said signal from said signal generation region to said signal reception region by reflection from the contact surface, whereby said signal reception region receives said signal, (d) generation by said signal reception region of a detection signal in response to the reception by said signal reception region of the signal generated in (b), (e) detection of said detection signal by said reception control means, and (f) determining said signal's transit time by timing activation in (b) and detection in (e). 44. A method in accordance with claim 43 further comprising: (g) determining a force component for said selected cross-field intersection based on said transit time. 45. A method in accordance with claim 44 wherein (a) to (g) are repeated for a plurality of different cross-field intersections to determine a plurality of force components over said contact surface. 46. A method in accordance with claim 44 wherein (a) to (g) are repeated for individual cross-field intersections to measure force component changes over time. 