An automated multi-purpose analytical chemistry processing center and laboratory work station having a movable table for supporting microtiter plates and other fluid receptacles, a movable arm, and a modular mobile pod affixed for reciprocal movement along the arm. The workstation combines into a single programmable system the capabilities for automation of a wide range of bioanalytical procedures including, not only sample pipetting, serial dilution, reagent additions, mixing, reaction timing and similar known manual procedures, but also programmable spectrophotometric measurements and other physical parameters, further processing based on these measurements and automatic data recording. The work station is adapted to transfer, dispense, and aspirate liquid from one location to another automatically in accordance with user programmed instructions. The work station is capable of measuring physical characteristics of selected samples and performing experimental assays in a closed loop manner in accordance with those measurements. Fluid is dispensed and aspirated using an interchangeable modules having one or a selected plurality of nozzles. Affixed to the modules nozzles are disposable pipettor tips, which are automatically picked up by the pod and ejected by a tip ejector mechanism at the control of the user. Additional modules may be used to perform Measurement Functions. The work station is designed for interactive connection with a remote computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for driving a plurality of stepper motors by discrete motor steps to move a first structure with respect to a second structure from a first location to a second location, said second structure having features defining obstacles which interrupt a direct path between the first and second locations, the controller comprising: first and second stepper motors, said first motor for moving the first structure along a first path, said second motor for moving the first structure relative to the second structure along a second path; memory means for storing data representing desired motor stepping characteristics, and positions of said first location, said second location, and said obstacles; motor control devices for the motors, at least one of the control devices comprises first means for advancing its associated motor a determined number of steps, second means for initiating said advancing after a determined number of delay-steps from initiating advancement of another motor, and third means for counting the number of steps advanced; and processing means for providing a plurality of motor control instructions to each of the motor control devices, said instructions including timing coordination between stepping of the motors in terms of delay-steps, thereby effective to move the first structure from the first location to the second location in a manner avoiding said obstacles. 2. A controller as in claim 1 wherein the motor stepping characteristics stored in the memory means includes ramp-up and ramp-down protocols. 3. A controller as in claim 2 wherein the processing means is configured to use the ramp-up and ramp-down protocols to define a slew count. 4. A controller as in claim 3 wherein the third means has a counter for receiving the slew count from the processing means, counting out the slew count after the ramp-up, and issuing a signal to indicate the count-out of the slew count. 5. A controller as in claim 4 further comprising interrupt means operably connected to said processing means for receiving the issued signal and actuating said processing means to initiate ramp-down of said motor upon counting out of the slew count, whereby the counter controls the motor during the slew count independent of the processing means. 6. A controller as in claim 1 wherein the processing means is configured to provide a motor control instruction to a first of the motor control devices while a second motor control device is controlling its associated motor. 7. A controller as in claim 1 wherein the processing means comprises first microprocessing means for determining delayed movements between the first and second structures without interfering with the obstacles and second microprocessing means for providing a plurality of motor control instructions based on such delayed movements. 8. A controller for driving a stepper motor by discrete motor steps, the controller comprising: memory means for storing data representing desired motor stepping characteristics; motor control device for advancing the motor in discrete steps; first counting means for determining the rate at which the motor will operate and to instruct the motor control device to advance the motor a determined number of steps at said rate; second counting means for counting the number of steps advanced; processing means for providing instructions to the first counting means and second counting means including the determined number of steps, and for providing instructions to other devices for carrying out other tasks; and interrupt means operably connected to the processing means and the second counting means, the interrupt means interrupting the processing means when the determined number of steps has been advanced such that the processing means issues another instruction to the first counting means, whereby the first counting means controls stepping of the motor without further instruction from the processing means during period between interruptions thereby freeing the processing means to instruct the other devices to carry out other tasks. 9. A controller as in claim 8 wherein the motor stepping characteristics stored in the memory means includes ramp-up and ramp-down protocols. 10. A controller as in claim 9 wherein the processing means is configured to use the ramp-up and ramp-down protocols to define a slew count as said determined number of steps. 11. A controller as in claim 10 wherein the second counting means receives the slew count from the processing means, counting out the slew count after the ramp-up and issuing a signal to indicate the count-out of the slew count. 12. A controller as in claim 11 wherein the interrupt means receives the issued signal and actuating said processing means to initiate ramp-down of said motor upon counting out of the slew count, whereby the first counting means controls the motor during the slew count independent of the processing means. 