A unitary end bell 66 includes a body 90 and a bridging section 92 and is assembled with a lamination stack 74 in the formation of a stator subassembly 150. End bell 66 is formed with base surfaces 118 at one end thereof which insulate adjacent portions of lamination stack 74 from coil windings 152 and is further formed with wire-retaining shrouds 110 which retain coil windings 152 in a wound configuration. Bridging section 92, which straddles the other end of body 90, is formed with brush channels 120 for supporting brush boxes and a bearing nest 138 for supporting an armature bearing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of assembling a stator subassembly, which comprises the steps of: (a) forming a stator end member having a first end and a second end and having a bridging section across the first end thereof; (b) assembling a bearing with the bridging section; (c) subsequent to steps (a) and (b), assembling the stator end member and a stator field core with the second end of the stator end member in an interfacing position with an end of the stator field core, and (d) subsequent to step (c), winding a wire about at least portions of the stator end member and the stator field core to form a coil winding and to hold the stator end member and the field core in the interfacing position. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, which further comprises the step of: forming a wire-retaining shroud on the stator end member to support the coil winding. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2, which further comprises the step of: locating a shroud support to support the shroud during a period when the wire is being wound. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3, which further comprises the step of: attaching the shroud support to structure forming the stator subassembly independently of external support. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1, which further comprises the steps of: assembling an insulating liner between the field core and adjacent portions of the coil winding; and directing portions of the wire away from edge portions of the insulating liner during winding of the wire to form the coil winding. 6. A method of assembling a shroud support adjacent a wire-retaining shroud of an end member assembled at one end of a field core of a stator subassembly during a period when wire is being wound into engagement with the shroud and the field core, which comprises the steps of: moving the shroud support into a bore formed by the field core to a shroud-supporting position adjacent the shroud; and latching the shroud support to structure formed by the stator subassembly. 7. The method of assembling the shroud support as set forth in claim 6, wherein the step of moving the shroud support includes the steps of: moving the shroud support axially within the bore from the end of the field core opposite the end at which the end member is assembled into a position aligned with and spaced from the shroud; and moving the shroud support laterally of the axis of the bore to the shroud-supporting position adjacent the shroud. 8. The method of assembling the shroud support as set forth in claim 6, wherein the stator subassembly further includes an insulating liner having at least an edge portion located adjacent the end member, and which further comprises the step of positioning a portion of the shroud support over the edge portion of the insulating liner to direct the wire away from the edge portion. 9. The method of assembling the shroud support as set forth in claim 6, wherein the shroud support is formed by two sections which are biased together and are separable, and which further comprises the steps of: separating the two sections prior to moving the shroud support adjacent to the shroud to position latch elements of each section adjacent the stator subassembly structure; and thereafter urging the two sections together to position the latch elements of the sections into latching engagement with the structure. 