A carrier plate (15) has essentially circular openings (11) for receipt of smaller diameter circular magnetic memory disks (20). Each disk has a plugged aperture, a planar annular band (23) on each side for receiving magnetic media (8), an outer peripheral edge (24) and a chamfer (22) therebetween. An integral stump segment (30) and a pair of integral U-shape channel retainers (40) extend from plate opening (11) to a position overlapping disk chamfer (22) to prevent a disk resting vertically on the stump segment (30) from falling out of the plate (15). Vertical holding walls (40) extend integrally and downwardly from a rear leg of the channel to insure vertical orientation of the disk (20) and stop walls (50) extend integrally and upwardly from that rear leg to prevent overtilting of the disk during its insertion into the plate (15). Gaps (31, 32, 33) are provided between the disk peripheral edge (24) and the opening (11) over about 248.degree. allowing magnetic media to effectively coat the entire annular band surfaces (23).
Claims We claim: 1. In combination, a circular memory disk and vertically-oriented carrier plate for holding the circular memory disk during coating of the disk with magnetic media, wherein the disk includes a central aperture, a transverse cylindrical outer peripheral edge, a planar cylindrical annular band for receiving magnetic media and extending on both sides of the disk from the central aperture to a position adjacent to the outer peripheral edge and a chamfered edge connecting the outer periphery of the annular bands and the disk cylindrical outer peripheral edge; and wherein the carrier plate includes an essentially circular opening having a diameter greater than the diameter of the disk, a cylindrical-topped stump segment positioned along a bottom arc of the carrier plate opening and extending radially inwardly of the opening forming a cylindrical surface for receiving an abutting corresponding cylindrical segment arc of the disk cylindrical outer peripheral edge such that adjacent segments of the disk cylindrical outer peripheral edge are gap-spaced from the carrier plate opening; and disk retaining means extending along a pair of symmetrical arc segments of the carrier plate opening commencing immediately below a horizontal bisector of the carrier plate opening and extending to a position spaced from said stump segment for retaining the disk in the carrier plate opening when the disk is mounted in the carrier plate opening, and wherein said disk retaining means includes radial inner ends positioned radially outward of the disk annular bands. 2. The combination of claim 1 wherein the disk retaining means includes wall means for forming a pocket overlapping a segment of only the chamfered edge of the disk such that the wall means does not extend radially into the disk annular bands. 3. The combination of claim 2 wherein the pocket comprises a radial inwardly-facing channel having the radial inner ends of each leg of the channel forming the disk retaining means terminating adjacent to the chamfered edge of the disk. 4. The combination of claim 3 further comprising a first wall arc segment extending from one of the legs of the channel in a direction toward the stump segment for holding the disk in a vertical abutting position on the stump segment. 5. The combination of claim 4 further comprising a second wall arc segment extending from said one of the legs of the channel in a direction away from the stump segment for preventing a disk being mounted into the carrier plate opening from overly tilting so as to cause non-abutment of the disk cylindrical segment arc on the stump segment. 6. The combination of claim 1 wherein the stump segment extends integrally from an edge of the carrier plate opening over an arc of from about 12.degree. to about 20.degree.. 7. The combination of claim 6 wherein said stump segment extends over an arc of about 16.degree.. 8. The combination of claim 7 in which the stump segment extends about 50 mils from the carrier plate opening to give an about 50 mil gap between the disk peripheral edge adjacent segments and the carrier plate opening. 9. The combination of claim 6 in which the stump segment extends radially inwardly from about 0.3 mm to about 3 mm from the carrier plate opening. 10. The combination of claim 1 in which the disk retaining means extends integrally from an edge of the carrier plate opening on each of opposed lateral sides of the carrier plate opening over a circular arc on each lateral side of from about 6.degree. to 40.degree. and has upper termini extending from about 1.degree. to 5.degree. below the horizontal bisector of the carrier plate opening. 11. The combination of claim 10 wherein the disk retaining means extending along the pair of symmetrical arc segments extends over an about 16.degree. arc and the upper termini of about 16.degree. arcs are about 2.degree. below the horizontal bisector of the carrier plate opening such that the upper termini subtend an arc of about 176.degree.. 12. The combination of claim 1 wherein the disk retaining means comprises a U-shaped curved channel pocket overlapping the chamfered edge of a disk mounted in the carrier plate opening, the channel pocket having a bottom for abutment of a corresponding arc segment of the disk outer peripheral edge and pocket sides spaced from a mounted disk and having a radial length less than the radial length component of the chamfered edge parallel to the disk annular bands, such that the disk retainer means cannot impact the disk annular bands. 13. The combination of claim 1 further comprising means extending from a rear side of said carrier plate opening opposite the side from which the disk is mounted in the carrier plate opening for vertically holding the disk in the carrier plate opening. 14. The combination of claim 13 in which the means for vertically holding comprises a rear side lip continuation of the disk retaining means extending toward the stump segment. 15. The combination of claim 1 further comprising means extending from the carrier plate opening above the horizontal bisector of the carrier plate opening for preventing a disk being mounted into the carrier plate opening from overly tilting so as to cause non-abutment of the disk segment arc on the stump segment. 16. The combination of claim 15 in which the means for preventing the overly tilting comprises a rear side lip continuation of the disk retaining means extending to above the horizontal bisector of the carrier plate opening. 17. The combination of claim 15 in which the means for preventing the overly tilting extends about 16.degree. above the horizontal bisector of the carrier plate opening such that the outer peripheral edge of a mounted disk has a gap source from the carrier plate opening over about a top arc of about 140.degree.. 18. The combination of claim 17 in which the gap space is about 50 mils such that the total surface of the disk annular bands is coated by magnetic media. 19. The method of manufacturing a data storage disk having planar cylindrical annular band surfaces for receiving magnetic media on opposite sides of the disk and a central aperture comprising: providing chamfered edges on the disk between the outer circumference of the annular band surfaces and the outer peripheral edge; providing a vertically-oriented disk carrier having a circular opening therein, the opening including a bottom disk-supporting stump segment extending radially inward of the carrier plate opening and a disk retaining channel extending from opposite sides of the carrier plate opening at a position below a horizontal bisection of the carrier plate opening and radially outward of the annular band surfaces; plugging the disk central aperture; orienting the disk to vertically face the carrier; inserting and tilting the disk laterally into the carrier opening and into the disk retaining channel such that the disk peripheral edge and the chamfered edges seat in the disk retaining channel; lowering the disk such that the annular band surfaces do not touch the carrier and such that the disk outer peripheral edge abuts on the stump segment, such that more than half of the circumference of the disk is gap-spaced from the carrier opening thus exposing all of said disk annular band surfaces in said carrier opening; coating all of the annular band surfaces of the disk simultaneous with a magnetic media; and removing the coated disk from the disk retaining channel and off the stump segment without the magnetic media-coated annular band surfaces touching the carrier. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising preventing an over tilting of the disk relative to the carrier, such that the disk peripheral edge does not miss abutting the stump segment during the lowering step. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein a plug is employed in plugging the disk aperture, said plug being holdable and movable with the disk by a robot arm to perform the disk orienting, inserting, lowering and removing steps set forth. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein the coating step comprises sputtering a magnetic media plasma on said annular band surfaces. 23. The method of claim 19 further comprising, after the lowering step, orienting the disk vertically with respect to the carrier to support the disk vertically in the carrier. 24. In combination, a circular memory disk and vertically-oriented carrier plate for holding the circular memory disk during coating of the disk with magnetic media, wherein the disk includes a central aperture, a transverse cylindrical outer peripheral edge, a planar cylindrical annular band for receiving magnetic media and extending on both sides of the disk from the central aperture to a position adjacent to the outer peripheral edge and a chamfered edge connecting the outer periphery of the annular bands and the disk cylindrical outer peripheral edge; and wherein the carrier plate includes an essentially circular opening having a diameter greater than the diameter of the disk, a fixed arcuate stump segment extending radially inwardly from a bottom arc of said carrier plate opening for receiving a bottom arc of the disk cylindrical outer peripheral edge, and a pair of spaced retaining lips extending radially inwardly at an arc of the carrier plate from adjacent the horizontal bisector of said carrier plate opening to a position spaced from each end of said stump segment, such that each pair of retaining lips form a floating pocket for the disk and with said stump segment, retains and supports the disk in said carrier plate opening at the disk chamfer or the disk cylindrical outer peripheral edge, and wherein a gap is provided between the disk cylindrical outer peripheral edge and the carrier plate opening extending over more than half of the circumference of said carrier plate opening. 25. The combination of claim 24 in which said gap is provided over about 264.degree. of the circumference of said carrier plate opening. 26. The combination of claim 24 further including a carrier rear holding wall and a carrier rear load wall each integrally extending from a rearward one of said retaining lips, said carrier rear holding wall extending downward from said rearward lip over from 12.degree. to 20.degree. of arc toward said stump segment and said rear load wall extending upward from said rear lip over from 12.degree. to 20.degree. of arc. 