A ridged, transparent, thermoplastic package for transporting substrate wafers is disclosed. The package includes elastomeric cushions which hold the substrate wafers in a manner which precludes them from becoming damaged during normal shipping and handling.
Claims I claim: 1. A substrate wafer suspension container for suspending a plurality of substrate wafers in a sealable contamination proof container, said container comprising: (a) a cover having a first base including four integral walls extending away from said first base; (b) a bottom having a second base including four integral sides extending away from said second base and arranged in opposing pairs; (c) at least one cushion comprising an elongated channel member having a generally rectangular base with a first and a second major surface, opposing side edges and a pair of side members extending outwardly in the same direction from opposing side edges, said base including a plurality of parallel spaced apart slits extending through the thickness dimension of said base and between said side members accept over a predetermined portion of said base located intermediate said opposing side edges; (d) means located on said container for securing said at least one cushion; and (e) means located in said container for receiving said plurality of substrate wafers. 2. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 1 wherein said means for receiving said plurality of substrate wafers is a removable wafer carrier whereby said wafer carrier mates between said top and bottom wherein said plurality of wafers are engaged by said at least one cushion. 3. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 2 wherein each said plurality of wafer edge engaging receptacles includes a first and a second angled surface on either side of each said wafer edge engaging receptacle. 4. Substrate wafer suspension of claim 1 wherein said means for receiving said plurality of substrate wafers is a plurality of wafer pockets on opposing pairs of said side walls of said bottom. 5. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 1 wherein said cushion is made of a flexible thermoplastic material. 6. A substrate wafer suspension container for suspending a plurality of substrate wafers in a sealable contamination proof container, said container comprising: (a) a cover having a first base including four integral walls extending away from said first base; (b) a bottom having a second base including four integral sides extending away from said second base and arranged in opposing pairs; (c) at least one cushion having a plurality of extending members with wafer edge engaging surfaces, said cushion is made of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF); (d) means located on said container for securing said cushion; and (e) means located on said container for receiving said plurality of substrate wafers. 7. A substrate wafer suspension container for suspending a plurality of substrate wafers in a sealable contamination proof container, said container comprising: (a) a cover having a first base including four integral walls extending away from said first base; (b) a bottom having a second base including four integral sides extending away from said second base and arranged in opposing pairs; (c) at least one cushion having a plurality of extending members with wafer edge engaging surfaces, said cushion is made of material having flexural creep of less than 1.5% deflection at 60.degree. C. when measured in accordance with ASTM D2990; (d) means located on said container for securing said cushion; and (e) means located in said container for receiving said plurality of substrate wafers. 8. A substrate wafer suspension container for suspending a plurality of substrate wafers in a sealable contamination proof container, said container comprising: (a) a cover having a first base including four integral walls extending vertically from said first base; (b) a bottom having a second base including four integral sides extending vertically from said second base; (c) a first cushion having a third base, a plurality of members extending from said third base, each said member having a wafer edge engaging surface opposite said third base; (d) a second cushion having a fourth base, a second plurality of members extending from said fourth base, each said second member having a second wafer edge engaging surface opposite said fourth base; (e) means located on said cover for securing said first cushion to said cover; (f) means located on said bottom for securing said second cushion to said bottom; and (g) a removable wafer carrier whereby the wafer carrier mates between the top and the bottom with the wafers suspended between the first and second cushion. 9. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein each one of said plurality of wafer edge engaging surfaces includes a first and second angled surface on either side of a U-shaped receptacle. 10. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein each one of said plurality of wafer edge engaging surface comprises a V-shaped receptacle. 11. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein each one of said plurality of wafer edge engaging surface comprises a first and second angled surface on either side of a flat surface. 12. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein said first and second cushions are made of an elastomer material. 13. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein said first and second cushions are made of a flexible thermoplastic material. 14. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 13 wherein said flexible thermoplastic material is polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF). 15. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein said first and second cushions are made of a material having flexural creep of less than 1.5% deflection at 60.degree. when measured in accordance with ASTM D2990. 16. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein said means located on said cover for securing said first cushion to said cover comprises of a first set of parallel tracks for receiving said third base of said first cushion. 17. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein said means located on said bottom for securing said second cushion comprises a second set of parallel tracks for receiving said fourth base of said second cushion. 18. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 17 wherein said box is made of a thermoplastic material. 19. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 8 wherein said first and second angled surfaces of adjacent members are connected along a central portion of said cushion. 20. A substrate wafer suspension container for suspending a plurality of substrate wafers comprising: (a) a package bottom including a first surface, four package bottom sides extending from said first surface, a rim surrounding the four package bottom sides opposite said first surface, first opposing latches on a first and second package bottom opposing side of said four package bottom sides, a raised second surface for package stacking, a first set of parallel tracks for receiving a first cushion on said second surface; and (b) a package top including four package top sides, a rim surrounding an edge of said four package top sides, second opposing latch catches on a first and a second package top opposing side of said four package top sides, a top surface including a raised stacking surface, and a second set of parallel tracks for receiving a second cushion; (c) said first cushion having a first base, said first base having a first pair of parallel rails for engaging said parallel tracks; a first plurality of members extending from said first base; each one of said plurality of members extending from said first base having a wafer edge engaging surface opposite said first base, said wafer edge engaging surface having a first and second angled surface on either side of a U-shaped receptacle, whereby said first rail engages said first tracks to secure said first cushion to said package bottom; (d) said second cushion having a second base, said second base having a pair of parallel rails for engaging said second set of parallel tracks; a second plurality of members extending from said second base; each one of said second plurality of members extending from said second base having as second wafer edge engaging surface opposite said second base, said second wafer edge engaging surface having a first and second angled surface on either side of a U-shaped receptacle, where by said second set of rails engages said second set of tracks to secure said second cushion to said package top; (e) a wafer carrier cassette including opposing closed side walls, a rear wall, and a crossbar connecting the sidewalls; and (f) means on said cassette for positioning said cassette in said package base. 21. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 20 wherein said first and second cushions are made of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) material. 22. A substrate wafer suspension container of claim 20 wherein said first and second cushions are made of a material having flexural creep of less than 1.5% deflection at 60.degree. C. when measured in accordance with ASTM D2990. 23. A substrate wafer suspension apparatus for suspending a plurality of substrate wafers to be used in combination with a substrate wafer container, said substrate wafer suspension apparatus comprising: (a) a first and second cushions made of polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF); (b) a plurality of members extending from a base; (c) each said member having a wafer edge engaging surface opposite said base; (d) said wafer edge engaging surface having a first and second angled surface on defining a first and second side of a wafer edge receptacle; and (e) means on said base opposite said plurality of members for securing said cushion to said substrate wafer container. 24. A substrate wafer suspension apparatus for suspending a plurality of substrate wafers to be used in combination with a substrate wafer container, said substrate wafer suspension apparatus comprising: (a) a first and second cushion made of material having a flexural creep of less than 1.5% deflection at 60.degree. C. when measured in accordance with ASTM D2990; (b) a plurality of members extending from a base; (c) each said member having a wafer edge engaging surface opposite said base; (d) said wafer edge engaging surface having a first and second angled surface on defining a first and second side of a wafer edge receptacle; and (e) means on said base opposite said plurality of members for securing said cushion to said substrate wafer. 25. A cushion for insertion into a substrate wafer container comprising: (a) an elongated channel member having a generally rectangular base with a first and a second major surface, opposing side edges and a pair of side members extending outwardly in the same direction from said opposing side edges, said base including a plurality of parallel spaced apart slits extending through the thickness dimension of said base and between said side members except over a predetermined portion of said base located intermediate said opposing side edges wherein said cushion is made of a polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) material. 26. A cushion for insertion into a substrate wafer container comprising: (a) an elongated channel member having a generally rectangular base with a first and a second major surface, opposing side edges and a pair of side members extending outwardly in the same direction from said opposing side edges, said base including a plurality of parallel spaced a part slits extending through the thickness dimension of said base and between said side members except over a predetermined portion of said base located intermediate said opposing side edges wherein said cushion is made of a material having a flexural creep of less than 1.5% deflection at 60.degree. C. when measured in accordance with ASTM D2990. 