An isostatic press and the process of using same is disclosed and claimed. The isostatic press includes a yoke; a bottom cover affixed to the yoke; a top cover affixed to the yoke; and, a body moveable between a first position and a second position. A process for isostatically pressing a workpiece in the isostatic press is also disclosed and claimed. The process includes the steps of: placing the workpiece on the bottom cover; moving the body from the first position to the second position; pressurizing the chamber; depressurizing the chamber; removing the workpiece; and, moving the chamber from the second position to the first position.
Claims I claim: 1. An isostatic press comprising: a yoke; said yoke includes a tongue; a bottom cover affixed to said tongue; a top cover affixed to said yoke; and, a body moveable between a first position and a second position. 2. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 wherein said body is driven between said first and second position by a screw drive actuator. 3. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 wherein said body is driven between said first position and said second position by a piston. 4. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 wherein said body is driven between said first position and said second position by a rack and pinion actuator. 5. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 wherein said body is driven between said first position and said second position by a linear actuator. 6. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 wherein said top and bottom covers each include at least one seal. 7. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 wherein said body is concentric with said bottom cover and said top cover. 8. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 7 wherein said body abuts said yoke in said first position and abuts said top cover in said second position. 9. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a plate affixed to said body and moveable therewith. 10. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 9 further comprising at least one latch affixed to said yoke, said latch engaging and restraining said plate and said body affixed thereto when said body is in said second position. 11. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 wherein said bottom cover includes a circumferential seal and said top cover includes a circumferential seal such that said seals engage said body when said body is in said second position. 12. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 further comprising at least one passageway through said top cover. 13. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 further comprising at least one passageway through said bottom cover. 14. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 1 further comprising at least one passageway through said top cover and one passageway through said bottom cover. 15. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 10 wherein said latch is solenoid operated. 16. An isostatic press comprising: a frame which includes a tongue; a bottom cover affixed to said tongue; a top cover; and, a cylindrically shaped body; each of said bottom cover, top cover, and cylindrically shaped body having axially aligned centers, and, said cylindrically shaped body axially movable between a first position and a second position. 17. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 16 wherein said top cover is affixed to said yoke. 18. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 16 wherein said cylindrically shaped body has an interior having at least two diameters. 19. An isostatic press as claimed in claim 18 wherein said top cover and said bottom cover have generally cylindrically shaped portions which are coupled with said cylindrically shaped body when said body is in said second position. 20. A process for isostatically pressing a workpiece in an isostatic press having a yoke, said yoke includes a tongue, a bottom cover supported by said tongue of said yoke, a top cover supported by said yoke, and a body moveable between a first position and a second position, said top and bottom covers and said body when in said second position form a pressure chamber, comprising the steps of: placing said workpiece on said bottom cover; moving said body from said first position to said second position; and, pressurizing said chamber. 21. A process for isostatically pressing a workpiece as claimed in claim 20, further comprising the step of: sealing said body with respect to said top and bottom covers. 22. A process for isostatically pressing a workpiece as claimed in claim 21, further comprising the steps of: depressurizing said chamber; moving said body from said second position to said first position; and, removing said workpiece from said bottom cover. 23. An isostatic press for pressurizing multiple workpieces, comprising: a yoke; said yoke includes a tongue; a bottom cover affixed to said tongue; a top cover affixed to said yoke; a generally cylindrical body moveable between a first position and a second position; said body in said first position not occluding said bottom cover enabling placement of multiple workpieces thereon from wide arcs; and, said body in said second position and said top and bottom covers forming a chamber for the pressurization of said workpieces. 