The wafer clamping mechanism comprises a linkage mechanism and a wafer contact point coupled to the linkage mechanism. The linkage mechanism includes a four-bar linkage having: a first link having a first fixed pivot and a first floating pivot remote from the first fixed pivot; a second link having a second fixed pivot and a second floating pivot remote from the second fixed pivot; and a third link having a first coupling pivot rotatably coupled to the first floating pivot, and having a second coupling pivot rotatably coupled to the second floating pivot. In use motion of the linkage mechanism causes the wafer contact point to clamp a wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer clamping mechanism, comprising: a wrist configured to be coupled to a distal end of a robotic arm; a linkage mechanism, comprising: a first link having a first fixed pivot rotatably coupled to said wrist, and a first floating pivot remote from said first fixed pivot; a second link having a second fixed pivot rotatably coupled to said wrist, and a second floating pivot remote from said second fixed pivot; and a third link having a first coupling pivot rotatably coupled to said first floating pivot and having a second coupling pivot rotatably coupled to said second floating pivot; and a wafer contact point coupled to said linkage mechanism, such that in use motion of said linkage mechanism causes said wafer contact point to contact a wafer. 2. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 1 wherein said first and second links are rocker links that are configured to oscillate between two limit positions. 3. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 1 wherein said third link is a floating link. 4. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 1 wherein said linkage mechanism is a four-bar linkage, further comprising a ground link between said first fixed pivot and said second fixed pivot. 5. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 1 wherein said wrist is further coupled to a wafer carrying blade. 6. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 5 further comprising a clamping activation mechanism that actuates said linkage mechanism when said robotic arm is in a predetermined position. 7. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 5 further comprising a biasing mechanism coupled to said linkage mechanism, said biasing mechanism biasing said wafer contact point towards said wafer carrying blade. 8. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 7 wherein said biasing member is coupled to said second link. 9. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 6 wherein said clamping activation mechanism retracts said wafer contact point away from said wafer carrying blade when said robotic arm is in its extended position. 10. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 5 wherein said third link includes an activation contact point near said second floating pivot, where said activation contact point is configured to engage with said clamping activation mechanism. 11. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 10 wherein said activation contact point is roller. 12. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 11 wherein said activation contact point is an at least partly ceramic bearing. 13. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 1 wherein said third link includes a portion thereof that extends axially beyond said first coupling pivot, and where said contact point is coupled to said portion. 14. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 1 wherein said contact point is a roller. 15. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 14 wherein said roller includes an at least partly ceramic bearing. 16. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 1 further comprising an additional linkage mechanism and an additional wafer contact point. 17. A wafer clamping mechanism, comprising: a robot arm; a wrist located near the a distal end of said robot arm; a wafer carrying blade coupled to said wrist; and at least two four-bar linkage mechanisms coupled to said wrist, said four-bar linkage mechanisms each including four rigid linkage members and automatically clamping a wafer onto said blade when said robot arm is in its retracted position. 18. The wafer clamping mechanism of claim 17, further comprising: a cam coupled to said distal end of said robot arm and rotationally coupled to said wrist; an additional robot arm; and an additional cam coupled to an end of said additional robot arm, and rotationally coupled to said wrist, where said cams are configured to engage with said at least two four-bar linkage mechanisms to clamp and release said wafer onto said wafer carrying blade. 19. A wafer clamping mechanism, comprising: a robot arm; a wrist located near a distal end of said robot arm; a wafer carrying blade coupled to said wrist; at least two four-bar linkage mechanisms coupled to said wrist, said four-bar linkage mechanisms automatically clamping a wafer onto said blade when said robot arm is in its retracted position; a cam coupled to said distal end of said robot arm and rotationally coupled to said wrist; an additional robot arm; and an additional cam coupled to an end of said additional robot arm, and rotationally coupled to said wrist, where said cams are configured to engage with said at least two four-bar linkage mechanisms to clamp and release said wafer onto said wafer carrying blade, and wherein said cam and said additional cam are configured to transfer equal and opposite rotary motion between one another. 