An apparatus for use with an array of liquid specimen containers having open upper ends includes a panel structure having an array of openings corresponding to the array of liquid specimen containers such that the open upper ends of the containers will be aligned with the openings upon placement of the panel structure over the containers in an upright engagement with the containers. The apparatus further includes filter material stretched across the openings so as to extend across the open upper ends of the containers in overlying abutment with the open upper ends of the containers when the panel structure is in the upright engagement. In this arrangement, liquid contents of the containers can flow downward through the filter material when the panel structure and the containers are together moved from their upright engagement to an overturned engagement inverted from their upright engagement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: an array of liquid specimen containers having open upper ends; a panel structure having an array of openings and configured for each opening to be aligned with a corresponding one of said open upper ends upon engagement of said panel structure with said containers; and filter material mounted on said panel structure in a condition stretched across said openings so as to extend across said open upper ends upon said engagement, such that liquid contents of said containers can flow downward through said filter material when said containers are overturned while maintaining said engagement. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said filter material is a single filter sheet. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said filter material is fixed to said panel structure. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said panel structure is configured for said open upper ends to extend into said openings upon said engagement. 5. An apparatus comprising: a liquid specimen container having an open upper end; a panel structure having an opening and configured for said opening to register with said open upper end upon engagement of said panel structure with said container; and filter material mounted on said panel structure in a condition stretched across said opening so as to extend across said open upper end upon said engagement, such that liquid contents of said container can flow downward through said filter material when said container is overturned while maintaining said engagement. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said container is one of an array of liquid specimen containers, each container having an open upper end, and said opening is one of an array of openings configured for each opening to register with a corresponding one of said open upper ends upon said engagement. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said filter material is a single filter sheet. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said filter material is fixed to said panel structure. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 5 wherein said panel structure is configured for said open upper end to extend into said opening upon said engagement. 10. An apparatus comprising: an array of liquid specimen containers having open upper ends; a panel structure having an array of openings and configured for each opening to be aligned with a corresponding one of said open upper ends upon engagement of said panel structure with said containers; and filter material stretched across said openings so as to extend across said open upper ends upon said engagement, such that liquid contents of said containers can flow downward through said filter material when said containers are overturned while maintaining said engagement; wherein said panel structure includes a first panel with said openings, and a second panel with openings aligned with said openings in said first panel, and said filter material is located between said first and second panels. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein said second panel has duct structures projecting from said openings in said second panel and away from said openings in said first panel. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein said first panel has projections engaging and stretching said filter material toward said second panel. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 12 wherein said second panel has indentations in which said projections are received. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 10 wherein said second panel has projections engaging and stretching said filter material toward said first panel. 15. An apparatus comprising: a liquid specimen container having an open upper end; a panel structure having an opening and configured for said opening to register with said open upper end upon engagement of said panel structure with said container; and filter material stretched across said opening so as to extend across said open upper end upon said engagement, such that liquid contents of said container can flow downward through said filter material when said container is overturned while maintaining said engagement; wherein said panel structure includes a first panel having said opening, and further includes a second panel having an opening aligned with said opening in said first panel, and said filter material is located between said first and second panels. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 15 wherein said second panel has a duct structure projecting from said opening in said second panel and away from said opening in said first panel. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 15 wherein said first panel has a projection engaging and stretching said filter material toward said second panel. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 17 wherein said second panel has an indentation in which said projection is received. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 15 wherein said second panel has a projection engaging and stretching said filter material toward said first panel. 20. An apparatus as defined in claim 19 wherein said projection on said second panel is an annular structure surrounding said opening in said second panel. 