An endless belt for a belt type polishing machine comprises a support fabric and a polymer layer of relatively low hardness. The polymer layer is formed with drainage grooves. The support fabric may comprise a non woven or woven material, or a membrane with oriented reinforcing yarns. A further version comprises a spiral-link fabric supporting a woven or non woven layer carrying the polymer layer. The polymer layer may be a double layer, the upper of which is either harder or softer than the lower layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An endless belt for use in polishing silicon substrates, said belt comprising a continuous textile fabric supporting a polishing layer, said polishing layer comprising a polymer which coats said textile fabric so that said polymer is integrated with said textile fabric to form a unitary belt. 2. A belt according to claim 1, wherein said polymer is a polyurethane, having a low Shore-D hardness. 3. A belt according to claim 2, wherein the Shore-D hardness of the polyurethane is in the range of 65-75. 4. A belt according to claim 1, wherein said polymer is a thermoset or thermoplastic polymer having a high abrasion resistance. 5. A belt according to claim 4, wherein said polymer is selected from the group consisting of:--polyamides, silicones, fluoropolymers, epoxy resins and thermoplastic polyurethanes. 6. A belt according to claim 2, wherein said polymer comprises an upper layer and an intermediate layer of materials having different hardness. 7. A belt according to claim 6, wherein the upper layer is of a harder material than the intermediate layer. 8. A belt according to claim 6, wherein the upper layer is of a softer material than the intermediate layer. 9. A belt according to claim 8, wherein the upper layer is of a foamed plastic material. 10. A belt according to claim 8, wherein the upper layer comprises a layer of beads of plastic, glass or soluble material. 11. A belt according to claim 10, wherein said beads comprise expanded polystyrene pellets which are dispersed into the upper layer. 12. A belt according to claim 6, wherein abrasive particles or fibres are incorporated in the upper layer. 13. A belt according to claim 6, wherein the surface of the upper layer is provided with a textured coating. 14. A belt according to claim 1, wherein said fabric is woven in endless form and includes yarns of high tensile strength and low elongation. 15. A belt according to claim 14, wherein said yarns are selected from the group consisting of meta or para-aramids, polyetherimide, polyimide, polyetherketone, PEEK, gel spun UHMW polyethylene, and polybenzimidazole. 16. A belt according to claim 14, wherein said yarns comprise a mixture or blend of two or more such yarns. 17. A belt according to claim 14, wherein said yarns are glass fibres, carbon or ceramic yarns, basalt fibres, other rock fibres or mixtures of mineral fibres with synthetic polymer yarns. 18. A belt according to claim 1, wherein said fabric is a non woven fabric formed from one or more yarn staples. 19. A belt according to claim 18, wherein said yarn staple comprises one or more groups of fibres selected from the group consisting of:--meta and para aramids; polyetherimide; polyimide; polyetherketone; PEEK; gel-spun UHMW polyethylene; polybenzimidazole; glass fibres, carbon fibres, ceramic fibres; basalt fibre; and other rock fibres. 20. A belt according to claim 1, wherein said fabric comprises a non woven fabric incorporating additional spaced apart linear yarns extending substantially in a common direction and a polymeric matrix material interconnecting and at least partially encapsulating each said yarn. 21. A belt according to claim 20, wherein said linear yarns are oriented in the running direction of said belt. 22. A belt according to claim 20, wherein said linear yarns are oriented in transversely of said belt. 23. A belt according to claim 22, wherein additional reinforcing yarns are provided extending in the running direction of said belt. 24. A belt according to claim 1, wherein said belt includes a spiral-link belt. 25. A belt according to claim 24, wherein said spiral-link belt supports a woven or non woven fabric layer which is coated or impregnated with said polymer. 26. A belt according to claim 1, wherein the surface of said belt is formed with grooves extending in the running direction of the belt to remove wet slurry generated in use. 27. A belt according to claim 4, wherein said polymer is a thermoset urethane. 28. A belt according to claim 1, wherein said polymer impregnates or partially impregnates said textile fabric. 29. A belt for use in chemical mechanical polishing of a semiconductor substrate, said belt comprising a textile fabric supporting a polishing layer, said polishing layer coats said textile fabric so that said polishing layer is integrated with said textile fabric to form a unitary belt. 