A modular multi-axis robot that can be configured to operate with two, three, four, five or six axes of movement and in various combinations of rotational and translational motion. The modules that make up the robot are fully detachable, interchangeable and are functionally independent with respect to each other. This allows the robotic apparatus to provide a flexible and custom solution for many different applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular multi-axis robot comprising: a base module having a rotational degree of freedom; an upright stand module having a z-axis degree of freedom and being mounted on the base module; a transverse gantry module mounted on the upright stand module and having a translational degree of freedom; an end effector module mounted on the gantry module; and wherein each of the modules are electrically, mechanically and pneumatically connected to an adjacent module, and wherein each of the modules are independent and detachable from the adjacent module. 2. The robot of claim 1 further comprising: controller means for controlling motion of the modules; and power transfer means for providing power to the modules. 3. The robot of claim 1 further comprising a connector plate mounted between the upright stand module and the transverse gantry module, said connector plate including a plurality of connectors for electrically connecting the modules together. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein the transverse gantry module has a channel for securing a movable carrier, said end effector module being mounted on the movable carrier. 5. The robot of claim 1 wherein the end effector module has a rotational degree of freedom. 6. The robot of claim 3 wherein the upright stand module includes a plurality of lifter arms, said lifter arms housing a plurality of cables. 7. The robot of claim 6 wherein the plurality of cables includes sensor wires, motor cables and pneumatic tubing. 8. The robot of claim 6 wherein the lifter arms can be adapted to have diameters of different sizes. 9. The robot of claim 1 wherein the base module additionally has a translational degree of freedom. 10. The robot of claim 1 wherein the upright stand module includes: a backbone structure connected to a linear vertical rail; a ball screw shaft and a ball screw nut coupled to the linear vertical rail; and a linear carrier connected to the ball screw nut. 11. The robot of claim 10 further comprising: a vertical housing carrier coupled to the linear carrier and to the ball screw nut, said vertical housing carrier having a first hole through which the ball screw shaft passes and a plurality of second holes; and a plurality of lifter arms, each of the lifter arms passing through one of said plurality of second holes of the vertical housing carrier. 12. The robot of claim 11 wherein a vertical motor rotates the ball screw shaft to move the ball screw nut vertically; and the vertical housing carrier moves vertically through the backbone structure with the ball screw nut movement. 13. The robot of claim 11 further comprising means for calibrating a position of the lifter arms. 14. The robot of claim 13 wherein said means for calibrating includes a plurality of notches in said lifter arms and a plurality of set screws contacting said notches at the position. 15. The robot of claim 1 wherein each of the modules is encased in an enclosure that is suitable for clean room applications. 16. The robot of claim 1 wherein the base module includes a universal mounting flange for installation of the robot. 17. The robot of claim 16 wherein the universal mounting flange is a top plate of the base module. 18. The robot of claim 16 wherein the universal mounting flange is a bottom plate of the base module. 19. The robot of claim 16 wherein the universal mounting flange has a plurality of mounting holes allowing the robot to be mounted on any one of a wall, a floor or a ceiling. 20. The robot of claim 1 wherein each of the base module, upright stand module and gantry module include means for limiting motion of the modules. 21. The robot of claim 1 wherein the base module includes a coupling plate assembly for connecting the base module to the upright stand module. 22. The robot of claim 21 wherein the coupling plate assembly includes a rotational plate coupled to a top plate of the base module, and a coupling plate connected to the vertical module and to the rotational module. 23. The robot of claim 22 wherein the rotational plate and the coupling plate are coupled by a plurality of quick release v-clamp latches. 24. The robot of claim 1 wherein the upright stand module includes a plurality of adjustable brackets for mounting of motor and transmission components. 25. The robot of claim 1 wherein the transverse gantry module includes a plurality of adjustable brackets for mounting of motor and transmission components. 26. The robot of claim 6 wherein the transverse gantry module includes a base connector plate which connects the transverse gantry module to the connector plate that is engaged with the lifter arms of the upright stand module. 27. The robot of claim 5 wherein the end effector box additionally has a translational degree of freedom, said translational degree of freedom of the end effector box being transverse to the translational degree of freedom of the transverse gantry module. 28. The robot of claim 1 wherein the base module includes a base plate and a top plate connected by a plurality of frame members. 29. The robot of claim 28 wherein the base module includes a rotational plate mounted on a bearing housing on the surface of the top plate. 30. The robot of claim 29 wherein the base module further comprises: a motor controller and motor amplifier connected to the base plate; a rotational motor having a shaft and being fixed attached to the top plate; a rotational pulley coupled to the rotational plate; a belt connected to the rotational pulley; and a driver motor pulley attached to the shaft of the rotational motor and connected to the belt. 31. The robot of claim 29 wherein the base module further comprises: a base spindle plate mounted to the base plate by a base bearing and a bearing clamp; a rotational motor mounted on the base spindle plate; a driver pulley fixed attached to the base plate; a motor pulley attached to a shaft of the rotational motor, said motor pulley having a plurality of teeth; and a timing belt connected between the driver pulley and the motor pulley. 32. The robot of claim 31 wherein the base spindle plate has an opening for routing of a plurality of wires and cables, said opening being surrounded by a bushing. 33. The robot of claim 31 wherein a space is provided under the base spindle plate to allow for rotation. 34. The robot of claim 31 further comprising a plurality of transmission bars connected between the rotational plate and the base spindle plate. 35. The robot of claim 31 wherein the base module has unlimited rotation. 36. The robot of claim 30 wherein the base module has rotation in the range of plus/minus 360 degree. 37. A modular multi-axis robot comprising: a base module having a rotational degree of freedom; a transverse gantry module mounted on the base module and having a translational degree of freedom; a connector plate mounted between the base module and the transverse gantry module, said connector plate including a plurality of connectors for electrically connecting the modules together; an end effector module mounted on the gantry module; controller means for controlling motion of the modules; power transfer means for providing power to the modules; and wherein each of the modules are electrically, mechanically and pneumatically connected to an adjacent module, and wherein each of the modules are independent and detachable from the adjacent module. 38. A modular multi-axis robot comprising: a base module having a rotational degree of freedom; an upright stand module having a z-axis degree of freedom and being mounted on the base module; a coupling plate assembly for connecting the base module to the upright stand module; a transverse gantry module mounted on the upright stand module and having a translational degree of freedom; a connector plate mounted between the upright stand module and the transverse gantry module, said connector plate including a plurality of connectors for electrically connecting the modules together; an end effector module mounted on the gantry module; controller means for controlling motion of the modules; power transfer means for providing power to the modules; and wherein each of the modules are electrically, mechanically and pneumatically connected to an adjacent module, and wherein each of the modules are independent and detachable from the adjacent module. 