The present invention provides a method for identifying a test compound that binds to a target species. The method includes: incubating at least one test mixture under isothermal denaturing conditions, each test mixture comprising at least one test compound, and at least one target species, wherein the isothermal denaturing conditions are effective to cause at least a portion of the target species to denature to a measurable extent; detecting a denaturation signal of each target species in the presence of the at least one test compound by a change in the diffusion properties of the target molecule using fluorescence correlation spectroscopy; and comparing the denaturation signal of each target species in the presence of at least one test compound with a denaturation signal of the same target species in the absence of the at least one test compound under the same isothermal denaturing conditions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for determining whether a test compound is capable of binding a target species under isothermal denaturing conditions, comprising: (a) a compartment comprising a mixture comprising; (i) at least one test compound; and (ii) a least one target species, wherein the isothermal denaturing conditions are effective to cause at least a portion of the target species to denature to a measurable extent; (b) means for providing isothermal denaturing conditions; and (c) means for detecting a denaturation signal of each target species in the presence of at least one test compound, whereby a decrease in the denaturation signal of the target species in the presence of the at least one test compound as compared to a denaturation signal of the species in the absence of the at least one test compound is an indication of binding between the target species and the at least one test compound. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the target species is a polypeptide or polynucleotide. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the target species is a protein. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the compound binds specifically to the target species. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the compound binds to the target species through covalent, hydrophobic, ionic, or hydrogen bonding interactions. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein detecting the denaturation signal comprises detecting a fluorescence signal, a change in UV absorbance, a change in molar ellipticity, a spectral shift in an infra-red spectrum, a spectral shift in an NMR spectrum, or a change in mobility on a support material. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein detecting the denaturation signal comprises detecting a fluorescence signal. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the isothermal denaturation conditions comprise a temperature equal to or about 10.degree. C. more or less than the T.sub.m value of the target species as determined by differential scanning calorimetry. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the isothermal denaturation conditions comprise a temperature equal to or up to about 10.degree. C. less than the T.sub.m value of the target species as determined by differential scanning calorimetry. 10. The system of claim 1 further comprising incubating at least one test compound, at least one target species, and at least one reporter molecule under isothermal denaturing conditions. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the concentrations of the test compound and the reporter molecule are of comparable magnitude. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the concentration of the test compound is in at least a 10-fold excess relative to the concentration of the target species. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein the reporter molecule is a fluorescent reporter molecule. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein each test mixture includes one target species. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein each test mixture includes at least two test compounds. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein each test mixture includes two to ten test compounds. 