A microfluidic device in form of a disc comprising an MS-port for presentation of an MS-analyte to an EDI-MS apparatus, said MS-port is a part of a microchannel structure (I) comprising an inlet port for a sample, and comprises an EDI-area having a conductive layer (I) and an EDI-surface from which the MS-analyte is to be desorbed/ionised. The device is characterized in that layer (I) has a conductive connection and/or that there is a calibrator area in the proximity of each of said one, two or more MS-ports. In a typical variant the MS-port is in the form of a depression that is in fluid communication with upstream part of microchannel structure (I).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microfluidic device in the form of a disc comprising an MS-port for presentation of an MS-analyte to an EDI-MS apparatus, said MS-port comprises; (a) a part of a microchannel structure comprising at least one inlet port, and (b) an EDI-area comprising a conductive layer and an EDI-surface from which the MS-analyte is desorbed/ionised, wherein said layer comprises a conductive connection providing voltage and charge transport to the EDI-area or a calibrator area is present in the proximity of said MS-port. 2. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein said MS-port comprises a depression in one side of said disc, said depression being in fluid communication with upstream parts of said microchannel structure. 3. The microfluidic device of claim 2, wherein said disc comprises two or more microchannel structures, each of which comprises an MS-port with a depression and an EDI-area comprising a conductive layer and an EDI-surface, the depressions being on the same side of the disc, and the conductive layers of the MS-ports being part of a common conductive layer. 4. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein said conductive layer in the MS-port is exposed as an EDI-surface. 5. The microfluidic device of claim 3, wherein the conductive layers of each MS-port is exposed as an EDI-surface, and the common conductive layer extends continuously between the MS-ports and comprises the inner walls of the depressions of the MS-ports. 6. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the MS-port of the microchannel structure is open. 7. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein the disc comprises: a) an axis of symmetry perpendicular to the disc, and b) two or more of said microchannel structures each of which is oriented radially with a liquid flow direction from one of said at least one inlet ports towards the periphery of the disc. 8. The microfluidic device of claim 7, wherein said one inlet port is a sample inlet port. 9. The microfluidic device of claim 7, wherein said MS-ports are at a larger radial distance from the axis of symmetry than said one inlet ports for each of said two or more of said microchannel structure. 10. The microfluidic device of claim 7, wherein said two or more of said microchannel structures each of which is arranged annularly around the axis of symmetry and said MS-ports are at the same radial distance from the axis of symmetry. 11. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein said EDI-MS apparatus is a MALDI-MS apparatus. 12. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein said EDI-area is a MALDI-area. 13. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein said EDI-surface is a MALDI-surface. 14. The microfluidic device of claim 7, wherein each of the MS-ports comprises a depression in one side of the disc, said side being the same for all of the MS-ports. 15. The microfluidic device of claim 7, wherein said conductive layers are part of a common continuous conductive layer. 16. The microfluidic device of claim 7, wherein the conductive layer of each MS-port is exposed as an EDI-surface. 17. The microfluidic device of claim 7, wherein each MS-port comprises a depression with inner walls, and the conductive layers of the MS-port is exposed as EDI-surfaces and are part of a common continuous conductive layer extending continuously between the MS-ports and comprises the inner walls of the depressions of the MS-ports. 18. A microfluidic device in the form of a disc comprising an MS-port for presentation of an MS-analyte to an EDI-MS apparatus, said MS-port comprises: (a) a part of a microchannel structure comprising at least one inlet port, and (b) an EDI-area comprising a conductive layer and an EDI-surface from which the MS-analyte is desorbed/ionised, wherein said layer comprises a conductive connection providing voltage and charge transport to the EDI-area and a calibrator area is present in the proximity of said MS-port. 19. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein said conductive layer of the EDI-area comprises a conducting metal oxide. 20. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein said conductive layer of the EDI-area comprises indium tin oxide. 