A system and method for distributing electrical power to an automated robotic device for transporting media cartridges in a data storage library. The system and method include a power distribution rail assembly having first and second electrically conductive rails for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second rails provided with opposite electrical charges. The system and method also include multiple contacts on the automated robotic device for making electrical contact with the first and second rails. The contacts include a first pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the first rail and a second pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the second rail. At least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintain contact with the first and second rails, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for holding media cartridges for use in storing data, at least one media drive, and an automated robotic device for transporting cartridges between the plurality of cells and the at least one media drive in the data storage library, a system for distributing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the system comprising: a power distribution rail assembly comprising first and second electrically conductive rails for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second rails to be provided with opposite electrical charges; and a plurality of contacts on the automated robotic device for making electrical contact with the first and second rails, the plurality of contacts comprising a first pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the first rail and a second pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the second rail, wherein at least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintain contact with the first and second rails, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of contacts comprises an electrically conductive wheel adapted to roll on a rail and an electrically conductive brush for making contact with the wheel. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the wheels are biased toward the rails to facilitate maintaining contact therewith. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein each brush has a substantially flat surface for contacting the wheel. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein each brush is biased toward a wheel to facilitate maintaining contact therewith. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the power distribution rail assembly comprises a plurality of sections, the plurality of sections to be electrically connected so that the power distribution rails extend substantially throughout the data storage library. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the power distribution rail assembly is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 8. The system of claim 6 wherein the power distribution rail assembly is adapted to be fed electrical power from a plurality of sections in the power distribution rail assembly. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the plurality of electrically connected sections of the power distribution rail assembly have a first end and a second end, and the power distribution rail assembly is adapted to be fed electrical power from both the first and second ends of the plurality of electrically connected sections. 10. The system of claim 6 further comprising a guide rail for supporting the automated robotic device during movement thereof in the data storage library, wherein the guide rail is adapted to cooperate with the power distribution rail assembly. 11. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for holding media cartridges for use in storing data, at least one media drive, and an automated robotic device for transporting cartridges between the plurality of cells and the at least one media drive in the data storage library, a method for distributing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the method comprising: providing electrical power to the automated robotic device via a power distribution rail assembly comprising first and second electrically conductive rails, the first and second rails to be provided with opposite electrical charges; and making electrical contact with the first and second rails via a plurality of contacts on the automated robotic device, the plurality of contacts comprising a first pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the first rail and a second pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the second rail, wherein at least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintain contact with the first and second rails, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein each of the plurality of contacts comprises an electrically conductive wheel adapted to roll on a rail and an electrically conductive brush for making contact with the wheel. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the wheels are biased toward the rails to facilitate maintaining contact therewith. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein each brush has a substantially flat surface for contacting the wheel. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein each brush is biased toward a wheel to facilitate maintaining contact therewith. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the power distribution rail assembly comprises a plurality of sections, the plurality of sections to be electrically connected so that the power distribution rails extend substantially throughout the data storage library. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the power distribution rail assembly is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the power distribution rail assembly is adapted to be fed electrical power from a plurality of sections in the power distribution rail assembly. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the plurality of electrically connected sections of the power distribution rail assembly have a first end and a second end, and the power distribution rail assembly is adapted to be fed electrical power from both the first and second ends of the plurality of electrically connected sections. 20. The method of claim 16 further comprising a guide rail for supporting the automated robotic device during movement thereof in the data storage library, wherein the guide rail is adapted to cooperate with the power distribution rail assembly. 