A method and system for controlling an intelligent assist device, robot, or other powered system that is partially or fully directed by the intent of a human operator. The method and system includes measuring a force or motion imparted by the human operator to a control. The measurement is determined with respect to the motion of the machine at a point of the machine that allows the benefit of collocation of sensing and actuation, or of approximation of such collocation. The system includes a support attached to the machine at the beneficial point, and a plurality of sensors to measure the force, torque, or motion imparted by the human operator to the support with respect to the beneficial point. The method and system provide improved stability of control of the system, and improved responsiveness to the intent of the human operator.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for controlling the movement of a payload, the system comprising: a powered manipulator having at least one axis of motion; a support member extending downward from the powered manipulator to the payload along a substantially vertical axis; and a control handle mounted to the powered manipulator, wherein the control handle has at least one axis of sensing. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the support member is a cable or a chain. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the support member is a rigid descender. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the powered manipulator can rotate the support member about the vertical axis. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the control handle is mounted proximal to a joint, and wherein the joint allows rotation of the support member about the vertical axis. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein the control handle is mounted distal to a joint, and wherein the joint allows rotation of the support member about the vertical axis. 7. The system of claim 3, wherein the control handle is mounted proximal to a first joint, wherein the first joint allows translation of the support member along a first axis, wherein the control handle is mounted distal to a second joint, and wherein the second joint allows translation of the support member along a second axis. 8. The system of claim 3, wherein the control handle is mounted distal to a first joint, wherein the first joint allows translation of the support member along a first axis, wherein the control handle is mounted distal to a second joint, and wherein the second joint allows translation of the support member along a second axis. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the powered manipulator is a powered bridge crane. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the control handle is mounted to a carriage of the powered bridge crane. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the powered manipulator is a robot. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the powered manipulator is a monorail, a jib crane, an articulated jib crane or a gantry crane. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the control handle uses a cable angle sensor to detect intent along the at least one axis of sensing. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the control handle detects intent along the at least one axis of sensing using a force sensor or a force/torque sensor. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the control handle uses a joystick to detect intent along the at least one axis of sensing. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the control handle uses an operator present switch to enable, the powered manipulator. 17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sensor mounted to the powered manipulator, wherein the sensor detects a motion of the payload relative to the powered manipulator in at least one axis of motion. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the control handles comprises: a shaft operably connected to the powered manipulator; a grip, wherein the grip connects to the shaft; and a sensor, wherein the sensor detects intent along the at least one axis of sensing. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the shaft is rigid. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the shaft is a cable or chain. 21. The system of claim 18, wherein the sensor is a pressure sensor, a capacitive sensor or an optical sensor. 22. The system of claim 1, further comprising an computerized control system, wherein the computerized control system uses an algorithm to relate intent along one of the intent axes to a corresponding motion along one of the motion axes. 23. A system for controlling motion, the system comprising: a powered manipulator having a plurality of motion axes; a support member extending downward from the powered manipulator alone a substantially vertical axis; and a control handle mounted to the powered manipulator, wherein the control handle measures intent along a plurality of intent axes. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the support member is a cable or a chain. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of motion axes is three motion axes, and wherein the plurality of intent axes is three intent axes. 26. The system of claim 23, wherein the support member is a rigid descender. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the plurality of motion axes is four motion axes, and wherein the plurality of intent axes is four intent axes. 28. The system of claim 23, wherein the powered manipulator includes a plurality of motors, and wherein each of the motors moves the powered manipulator along at least one of the motion axes. 29. The system of claim 23, wherein the control handles uses a sensor to detect an intent along one of the intent axes and to cause the powered manipulator to move along a corresponding one of the motion axes. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the sensor is a force sensor, a force/torque sensor or an optical sensor. 31. The system of claim 23, wherein the control handle uses a joystick having three rotational axes to detect intent along the intent axes, and wherein the joystick uses a plurality of potentiometers to measure rotation about the three rotational axes. 32. The system of claim 23, further comprising a computerized control system, wherein the computerized control system uses an algorithm to relate a measured intent along one of the intent axes to a corresponding drive speed of the powered manipulator along one of the motion axes. 33. A system for controlling an assist device, the system comprising: a powered manipulator having a plurality of motion axes; a support member extending downward from the powered manipulator along a substantially vertical axis, wherein the support member is configured to support a payload, and wherein the powered manipulator can move the support member along each of the plurality of motion axes; a shaft mounted to the powered manipulator; and a control handle connected to the shaft, wherein the control handle detects intent along a plurality of intent axes, and wherein each of the plurality of intent axes corresponds to one of the plurality of motion axes. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the plurality of motion axes is three motion axes, wherein the support member can move along two of the motion axes in a horizontal plane, wherein a third motion axis is in a vertical plane, and wherein the powered manipulator can rotate the support member about the third motion axis. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the plurality of motion axes includes a fourth motion axis for moving the support member in a vertical direction along the third motion axis. 36. The system of claim 33, wherein each of the plurality of intent axes corresponds to a different one of the plurality of motion axes. 37. The system of claim 33, wherein the control handle is mounted proximal to a first joint, wherein the first joint allows translation of the support member along a first axis, wherein the control handle is mounted distal to a second joint, and wherein the second joint allows translation of the support member along a second axis. 38. The system of claim 33, wherein the control handle is mounted distal to a first joint, wherein the first joint allows translation of the support member along a first axis, wherein the control handle is mounted distal to a second joint, and wherein the second joint allows translation of the support member along a second axis. 39. The system of claim 33, wherein the control handle is an inline slide handle configured to detect forces in a vertical direction, and wherein the powered manipulator includes a vertical motion device for moving the support member in a vertical direction. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the vertical motion device is an electric hoist, a pneumatic balancer or a pneumatic cylinder. 