Robot system incorporates a versatile end effector that can be used to transport wafers, map wafers, and autocalibrate the movements of the robotic system. Typically, the end effector of the invention is rotatably and/or pivotably coupled to a robotic arm and includes an optical sensor system whose light path preferably includes a directional component that extends along a lengthwise axis of the end effector. Preferably the end effector is independently movable about at least two axes. These characteristics, singly or in combination, allow the end effector to carry out transport, mapping, and autocalibration functions within a relatively small volume either horizontally, vertically, or at other desired orientations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector system for manipulating a workpiece comprising a semiconductor wafer, the end effector system comprising: an end effector comprising: i) a proximal end and a distal end; and ii) optical sensor system components comprising a lengthwise light path extending between a first optical sensor system element positioned relatively closer to the proximal end and a second optical sensor system element positioned relatively closer to the distal end. 2. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the light path intersects an axis along the centerline of the end effector at the distal end of the end effector, wherein the light path and centerline form an angle in the range from 0 degrees to 45 degrees. 3. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the light path intersects an axis along the centerline of the end effector at the distal end of the end effector, wherein the light path and centerline form an angle in the range from 0 degrees to 30 degrees. 4. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the light path intersects an axis along the centerline of the end effector at the distal end of the end effector, wherein the light path and centerline form an angle in the range from 0 degrees to 10 degrees. 5. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the first optical sensor system element comprises an optical light source fiber and the second optical sensor system element comprises an optical light receiver fiber, wherein the source and receiver fibers are housed within the end effector. 6. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the first and second optical sensor system elements are positioned along a lengthwise edge of the end effector. 7. The end effector system of claim 6, wherein the first and second optical sensor system elements are spaced from the lengthwise edge of the end effector a distance to allow the light path to intersect a portion of a first wafer in a separate holding structure and to prevent the first and second optical sensor system elements from extending beyond a perimeter of a second wafer gripped by the end effector. 8. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the first and second optical sensor system elements are housed in first and second structures respectively, wherein the first and second structures extend in a direction perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the end effector. 9. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the first and second optical sensor system elements and light path lie within a main plane the end effector. 10. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the light path intersects an axis along the centerline of the end effector at the distal end of the end effector, wherein the light path and centerline form an angle in the range from 0 degrees to 90 degrees. 11. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the end effector is coupled to a robotic arm, wherein the end effector and robotic arm form part of a robotic system for manipulating a workpiece comprising a semiconductor wafer. 12. The end effector system of claim 11, wherein the robotic system forms part of a tool for manipulating a workpiece comprising a semiconductor wafer. 13. The end effector system of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises a range of motion such that the end effector is independently movable about at least a first axis. 14. The end effector system of claim 13, wherein the end effector comprises a range of motion such that the end effector is independently rotatable about an axis along the centerline of the end effector. 15. A method of mapping a wafer holding structure, comprising the steps of: a) providing an end effector system comprising: i) an end effector comprising: a) a proximal end and a distal end; and b) optical sensor system components comprising a lengthwise light path extending between a first optical sensor system element positioned relatively closer to the proximal end and a second optical sensor system element positioned relatively closer to the distal end; and b) causing the end effector system to use the optical sensor system components to mappingly scan the holding structure, wherein the holding structure optionally stores one or more wafers. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein: a) the first and second optical sensor system elements are positioned along a lengthwise edge of the end effector; and b) the step of causing the robot to use the optical sensor system to mappingly scan the holding structure comprises the steps of: i) positioning the lengthwise edge of the end effector that includes the first and second optical sensor system elements in a scanning position proximal the wafer holding structure; and ii) moving the end effector along an axis perpendicular to the plane of the one or more wafers so that the one or more wafers can interrupt the light path. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein a main plane of the one or more wafers is a vertical orientation. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the lengthwise edge of the end effector that includes the first and second optical sensor system elements is positioned above the one or more wafers. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the wafer holding structure is positioned in a structure such that a headspace is defined, the headspace having a height distance value less that a length value of a main plane of the end effector and greater that a width value of the main plane of the end effector. 20. A method of calibrating a robotic system, comprising the steps of: a) providing an end effector system comprising: i) an end effector comprising: a) a proximal end and a distal end; and b) optical sensor system components comprising a lengthwise light path extending between a first optical sensor system element positioned relatively closer to the proximal end and a second optical sensor system element positioned relatively closer to the distal end; b) causing the end effector system to use the optical sensor system components to obtain information relating to an environment within the operational reach of the end effector system; and c) using at least a portion of the information to calibrate the end effector system. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein: a) the first and second optical sensor system elements are positioned along a lengthwise edge of the end effector; and b) the step of causing the end effector system to use the optical sensor system components to obtain information relating to an environment within the operational reach of the end effector system comprises the steps of: i) positioning the lengthwise edge of the end effector that includes the first and second optical sensor system elements in a position proximal to a first structure in the environment within the operational reach of the end effector system; and ii) moving the end effector along an axis so that the first structure can interrupt the light path. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the lengthwise edge of the end effector that includes the first and second optical sensor system elements is positioned above the first structure. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the first structure is positioned within a second structure such that a headspace is defined, the headspace having a height distance value less that a length value of a main plane of the end effector and greater that a width value of the main plane of the end effector. 