Apparatus and method for sensing at an anatomic body site and mapping or transforming the sensor signal into various forms of virtual image and feedback signals, having particular application in assisting surgeons and other operators during a medical procedure. In one embodiment, a medical system is provided that includes a medical implement, a manipulator controllable by an operator for control of the medical implement at an anatomic body site and a sensing device for sensing a non-visible field associated with a body structure at the site. A controller, intercoupling the sensing device and the manipulator, includes a mapping component for translating characteristics of the sensed field signal into a tactile feedback signal to the manipulator to warn the surgeon that he is approaching this structure with the implement. Alternatively or in addition, a virtual image of the body structure is displayed, separate or preferably together with a visual image of the site, to assist a surgeon in manipulating a medical implement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for generating a display of a body structure and for providing haptic feedback to a medical practitioner, said system comprising: a master station that includes a user interface; a slave station that includes a medical implement; a sensor on the medical implement positionable at an internal body site for sensing a non-visible field of a body structure at the site; a measurement system responsive to said sensor for providing a sensor signal indicative of the field strength; a controller intercoupling the master and slave stations and responsive to manipulations at the user interface by said medical practitioner to control said medical implement; said controller transforming the sensor signal into virtual image data representative of the body structure; a source of visual image data for the site; and a display system enabling combined display of the visual image data and the virtual image data for observation by the medical practitioner at the master station; said controller transforming the sensor signal into a tactile feedback signal, said user interface receiving said feedback signal for providing a tactile response to the medical practitioner at the user interface. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-visible field is at least one of an electrical field, a thermal field, an infrared field and a radioactive field. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is at least one of a voltage sensor, a thermal sensor, an infrared sensor, and a radioactive sensor. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensed field is associated with at least one of a nerve, nerve bundle and vascular vessel. 5. The system of claim 1, further including: a stimulator emitting a stimulation signal for at least one of enhancing and generating the field. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the stimulator emits at least one predefined stimulation signal for an associated body site. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller includes, for at least one select site, an associated signature value of the virtual image data. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the virtual image data defines a boundary of the field. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the magnitude of the tactile response is a function of the magnitude of the sensor signal. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is disposed at a distal end of the medical implement. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the medical implement includes a tool used to perform a medical procedure at the site. 12. The system of claim 1, further including: a hand-engageable user interface providing input to a computer for positioning of the implement. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller includes: modeling data for associating the virtual image data with locations at the site. 