An authenticating pattern is disposed on a cover and an authenticating device is disposed in a robot apparatus for authenticating the cover on the basis of the authenticating pattern of the fitted cover. An information holding device for holding inherent information is disposed in the cover and a reading device for reading out the inherent information from the information holding device is disposed in the robot apparatus. A function of detecting an amount of influence due to the cover and changing manifesting patterns of motions as occasion demands on the basis of the detection result is disposed in the robot apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system, comprising: a robot apparatus; a cover to be detachably fitted over said robot apparatus; a predetermined authenticating pattern disposed on said cover; authenticating means disposed on said robot apparatus for authenticating said cover on the basis of said authenticating pattern on said cover fitted; and action model determining means for changing a model for determining an action to be taken by said robot apparatus in accordance with information of the cover of the robot. 2. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein: said authenticating pattern is a first concavo-convex pattern having a predetermined form; and said authenticating means is a second concavo-convex pattern having a predetermined form which fits said first concavo-convex pattern in a predetermined condition only when said first concavo-convex pattern is a regular pattern. 3. The robot system according to claim 2, wherein said first concavo-convex pattern has a concavo-convex form of a registered design. 4. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein: said authenticating pattern is a concavo-convex pattern having a predetermined form; and said authenticating means electrically detects a concavo-convex form of said concavo-convex pattern on said cover and authenticates said cover on the basis of the detection result. 5. A cover for a robot apparatus, comprising: a predetermined authenticating pattern, wherein said cover is detachably fitted over said robot apparatus with authenticating means for authentication on the basis of said authenticating pattern, and wherein an action model determining means of said robot changes a model for determining an action to be taken by said robot apparatus in accordance with information of the cover of the robot. 6. The cover for a robot apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said authenticating pattern is a concavo-convex pattern having a predetermined form. 7. The cover for a robot apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said concavo-convex pattern has a concavo-convex form of a registered design. 8. A robot apparatus manifesting predetermined motions, comprising: information detecting means for detecting inherent information corresponding to a cover when said cover is detachably fitted; control means for changing manifesting patterns of said motions as occasion demands on the basis of said inherent information detected; and action model determining means for changing a model for determining an action to be taken by said robot apparatus in accordance with information of the cover of the robot. 9. The robot apparatus according to claim 8, comprising a memory for storing said inherent information as data, and wherein said robot apparatus has data reading means for reading out said data from said memory. 10. A mobile robot comprising: a cover which has information of the robot, mounted detachably on the robot; and means for holding an emotion model of the robot, wherein the emotion model is changed when the cover is replaced in accordance with information of the robot which a replaced cover has. 11. A cover for a mobile robot comprising: means for holding information of the robot which the cover is mounted on, wherein an emotion model of the robot is changed when the cover is mounted on the robot in accordance with the information of the robot of the cover. 12. A mobile robot comprising: a cover which has information of the robot, mounted detachably on the robot; and means for holding an instinct model of the robot, wherein the instinct model is changed when the cover is replaced in accordance with information of the robot which a replaced cover has. 13. A cover for a mobile robot comprising: means for holding information of the robot which the cover is mounted on, wherein an instinct model of the robot is changed when the cover is mounted on the robot in accordance with the information of the robot of the cover. 14. A mobile robot comprising: a cover which has type information of the robot, mounted detachably on the robot; and means for holding motion information of the robot, wherein the motion information is changed when the cover is replaced in accordance with the type of information of the robot which a replaced cover has. 15. The mobile robot according to claim 14, wherein the motion information is a gait pattern of the robot. 16. The mobile robot according to claim 14, wherein the mobile information is a behavior pattern of the robot. 