A method for inspecting semiconductor wafers is provided in which a plurality of independent, low-cost, optical-inspection subsystems are packaged and integrated to simultaneously perform parallel inspections of portions of the wafer, the wafer location relative to the inspection being controlled so that the entire wafer is imaged by the system of optical subsystems in a raster-scan mode. A monochromatic coherent-light source illuminates the wafer surface. A darkfield-optical system collects scattered light and filters patterns produced by valid periodic wafer structures using Fourier filtered. The filtered light is processed by general purpose digital-signal processors. Image subtraction methods are used to detect wafer defects, which are reported to a main computer to aid in statistical process control, particularly for manufacturing equipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor manufacturing system comprising: a wafer handling chamber having a plurality of facets, the wafer handling chamber containing a vacuum environment; a plurality of wafer processing tools, each of the tools being attached to a respective facet, on the wafer handling chamber, wherein one of the tools has attached a modular optical inspection system that reviews semiconductor wafers for defects, the modular optical inspection system including, a plurality of modular inspection subsystems each configured to detect defects on a portion of a semiconductor wafer, wherein at least two of the subsystems are of different types, each type measuring a different parameter for detecting a specific wafer defect; a mechanism for moving at least one of the semiconductor wafer and the plurality of modular inspection subsystems with respect to one another; and a master processor configured to process data delivered from at least some of the modular inspection subsystems, wherein a first one of the plurality of modular inspection subsystems includes a local processor configured to process data collected by the first modular inspection subsystem; and a wafer handler located within the wafer handling chamber for transporting semiconductor wafers between each of the plurality of facets. 2. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a first metrology tool attached to one of the facets of the wafer handling chamber, wherein the first metrology tool measures critical dimensions on pattem-etched semiconductor wafers; and a second metrology tool, wherein the second metrology tool is an ellipsometer configured to measure the thickness of a layer on the surface of the semiconductor wafer. 3. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 2 wherein the first metrology tool is an optical detector. 4. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one of the processing tools is a type of tool selected from the group consisting of a CVD reactor, an etcher, and a stripper. 5. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 1 further comprising: a wafer storage cassette that is attached to one of the facets on the wafer handling chamber. 6. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of modular inspection subsystems are placed adjacent to one another such that each adjacent subsystem reviews a corresponding portion of the semiconductor wafer for defects. 7. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 6, wherein at least two of the plurality of modular inspection subsystems perform the detection for defects simultaneously. 8. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 6, wherein the plurality of modular inspection subsystems are placed adjacent to one another such that the subsystems are adjoined together side-by-side. 9. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 1, wherein the measured parameters are selected from the group comprising of hot spots, deposition thicknesses, and critical dimension. 10. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor wafer comprising: providing a wafer handling chamber having a plurality of facets, the wafer handling chamber containing a vacuum environment; providing a plurality of wafer processing tools, each of the tools being attached to a respective facet on the wafer handling chamber, wherein one of the tools has attached a modular optical inspection system that reviews semiconductor wafers for defects, the modular optical inspection system including, a plurality of modular inspection subsystems each configured to detect defects on a portion of a semiconductor wafer, wherein at least two of the subsystems are of different types, each type measuring a different parameter for detecting a specific wafer defect; a mechanism for moving at least one of the semiconductor wafer and the plurality of modular inspection subsystems with respect to one another; and a master processor configured to process data delivered from at least some of the modular inspection subsystems, wherein a first one of the plurality of modular inspection subsystems includes a local processor configured to process data collected by the first modular inspection subsystem; providing a metrology tool attached to one of the facets of the wafer handling chamber, wherein the metrology tool measures critical dimensions on pattem-etched semiconductor wafers; transferring the semiconductor wafer from one of the plurality of wafer processing tools to the metrology tool; and measuring the dimension of at least one feature on the semiconductor wafer with the metrology tool. 11. A method of manufacturing a semiconductor wafer as recited in claim 10 wherein the metrology tool is an optical detector. 12. A semiconductor manufacturing system, comprising: a wafer handling chamber having a plurality of facets, the wafer handling chamber containing a vacuum environment; a plurality of wafer processing tools, each of the wafer processing tools being attached to a respective facet on the wafer handling chamber; and a modular inspection tool attached to one of the facets of the wafer handling chamber, the modular inspection tool including a plurality of inspection sensors and metrology sensors, whereby the metrology sensors measure critical dimensions on pattern-etched semiconductor wafers. 13. A method of inspecting semiconductor wafers on a wafer handling chamber, comprising: providing a wafer handling chamber having a plurality of facets, the wafer handling chamber containing a vacuum environment; providing a plurality of wafer processing tools, each of the wafer processing tools being attached to a respective facet on the wafer handling chamber; providing a modular inspection tool for attaching to a facet of the wafer handling chamber wherein the modular inspection tool includes a plurality of interleaved inspection and metrology sensors; performing a first scan of a semiconductor wafer with the modular inspection tool wherein the inspection sensors are used to inspect the wafer for defects; and performing a second scan of the semiconductor wafer with the modular inspection tool wherein the metrology sensors are used to measure critical dimensions on the wafer. 14. A method of inspecting semiconductor wafers on a wafer handling chamber as recited in claim 13, further comprising: transferring the semiconductor wafer from one of the plurality of wafer processing tools to the modular inspection tool. 15. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 13, wherein the plurality of interleaved inspection and metrology sensors are placed adjacent to one another such that each adjacent sensor reviews a corresponding portion of the semiconductor wafer. 16. A semiconductor manufacturing system as recited in claim 15, wherein at least two of the plurality of interleaved inspection and metrology sensors perform simultaneously. 