A milking parlor having a plurality of translatable shuttle stalls allows for presentation of animals to be milked and corresponding release of the animals, independent of the milking status of additional animals. The shuttle stalls can be disposed in a herringbone or perpendicular orientation with respect to a corresponding operator pit, wherein the operator pit can accommodate human or robotic devices for implementing the milking process.
Claims in French patent publication FR 1310015.. Primary Examiner: Jordan; Charles T. Assistant Examiner: Zerr; John W. Attorney, Agent or Firm: Shaw, Esq.; Brian B. Aceto, Esq.; Roger Harter, Secrest & Emery LLP Claims I claim: 1. A method for presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) individually moving, solely along an axis including a head and tail of the animal and extending transverse a longitudinally extending operator pit, a loaded shuttle stall from an animal loading position away from the operator pit to a milking position placing the rear of the animal adjacent the operator pit. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising loading at least one animal onto the shuttle stall in the loading position through an open side of the shuttle stall. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising loading at least one animal onto the shuttle stall in the loading position through an open end of the shuttle stall. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving a headlock gate from an open position to a retaining position. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein individually moving a loaded shuttle stall from a loading position to a milking position includes travel along a linear path. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the shuttle stall in response to a control signal from a controller. 7. A milking parlor for presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) a plurality of individually moveable shuttle stalls arranged along a longitudinally extending operator pit, each shuttle stall individually moveable solely along an axis including a head and a rear of the animal in a direction extending transverse the longitudinally extending operator pit, from an animal loading position away from the operator pit to a milking position placing the rear of the animal adjacent the operator pit. 8. The milking parlor of claim 7, further comprising a controller for selectively moving the shuttle stalls between the loading position and the milking position. 9. The milking parlor of claim 7, wherein each shuttle stall includes an ingress gate. 10. The milking parlor of claim 9, wherein the ingress gate is located along a side of the shuttle stall. 11. The milking parlor of claim 7, wherein each shuttle stall includes a headlock gate. 12. The milking parlor of claim 11, wherein the headlock gate is moveable between a release position and a retaining position. 13. The milking parlor of claim 12, wherein the headlock gate is selected to be disposed in any of a plurality of retaining positions. 14. The milking parlor of claim 7, further comprising at least two independently moveable shuttle stalls. 15. A method for presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) moving one of a plurality of individually moveable shuttle stalls away from a longitudinally extending operator pit to a loading position, movement of the shuttle being along an axis including a head and tail of an animal and extending in a direction transverse an elongated operator pit; (b) loading an individual animal head first into the shuttle stall with the rear of the animal oriented towards the operator pit; and (c) individually moving the loaded shuttle stall along the axis to a milking position placing the rear of the animal adjacent the operator pit. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising simultaneously moving at least two shuttle stalls. 17. A method for presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: (a) loading at least two animals into one of a plurality of stalls arranged along an elongated operator pit with the head of each animal oriented away from the operator pit; and (b) moving the shuttle stall, along an axis including a head and tail of one of the animals solely in a direction extending transverse the operator pit, to a milking position placing the rear of the animal adjacent the operator pit. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising simultaneously moving a plurality of shuttle stalls. 19. A milking parlor for presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: a) a plurality of individually moveable shuttle stalls, each of the shuttle stalls moveable along an axis including a head and a rear of the animal, from a loading position to a milking position adjacent an operator pit and from the milking position to an unloading position; and b) the unloading position is the loading position. 20. A milking parlor for presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: a) a plurality of individually moveable shuttle stalls, each of the shuttle stalls moveable along an axis including a head and a rear of the animal, from a loading position to a milking position adjacent an operator pit; and b) each of the shuttle stalls including an ingress gate located along a rear of the shuttle stall. 21. A milking parlor for presenting an animal to be milked, comprising: a) a plurality of individually moveable shuttle stalls, each of the shuttle stalls moveable along an axis including a head and a rear of the animal, from a loading position to a milking position adjacent an operator pit; and b) a plurality of alley gates, each alley gate being spaced from a corresponding shuttle stall in the milking position. 22. The milking parlor of claim 21, wherein the alley gates are moveable between a retracted position and a guiding position. 23. The milking parlor of claim 22, wherein the alley gate is moved to the retracted position upon a corresponding shuttle stall being disposed in an unloading position. 24. The milking parlor of claim 22, further comprising an actuator connected to a selected alley gate to move the selected alley gate to one of the retracted position and the guiding position. 