An automated casting system includes: a plurality of casting stations, a molten-metal collection station with at least one furnace containing molten metal, an automated casting apparatus extending between the casting stations and the collection station and provided with a robotic device for moving a casting ladle in a cyclic and controlled manner in order, in each cycle, to collect molten metal from the collection station and to pour it out in a station selected from the casting stations, an automatic casting-transfer apparatus extending between the casting stations and a discharge station and provided with a robotic device for moving, in a controlled manner coordinated with the casting apparatus, grippers for gripping and transferring the castings from one of the casting stations to the discharge station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated casting system comprising: a plurality of casting stations, a molten-metal collection station with at least one furnace containing molten metal, an automated casting apparatus extending between the casting stations and the collection station and provided with a robotic device for moving a casting ladle in a cyclic and controlled manner in order, in each cycle, to collect molten metal from the collection station and to pour it out in a station selected from the casting stations, and an automated casting-transfer apparatus, extending between the casting stations and at least one discharge station and provided with a robotic device for moving casting-gripping means, in a controlled manner coordinated with the casting apparatus, in order to transfer castings from one of the casting stations to the discharge station, wherein the automated transfer apparatus includes a Cartesian robot having: a straight horizontal guide which extends above and in the vicinity of the casting stations and of the discharge station, and a robotic device which is mounted on a carriage movable along the guide and which can control the movements of the caster-gripping means in vertical planes parallel to one another and perpendicular to the guide, and wherein the robotic device comprises: first translational means for bringing about translation of the gripping means along a first horizontal axis parallel to the horizontal guide, second translational means for bringing about translation of the gripping means along a first vertical axis, third translational means for bringing about translation of the gripping means along a transverse horizontal axis, first rotational means for bringing about rotation of the gripping means about a second vertical axis parallel to or coinciding with the first vertical axis, second rotational means for bringing about rotation of the gripping means about a second horizontal axis perpendicular to the second vertical axis, fourth translational means for bringing about or permitting translation of the gripping means alone a radial axis relative to the second horizontal axis, and actuator means for bringing opening and closure of the gripping means. 2. A casting system according to claim 1, wherein the fourth translational means can be controlled pneumatically in a manner such as to bring about an extension movement of the gripping means along the radial axis and to allow an opposite withdrawal movement of the gripping means along the same radial axis to take place substantially freely. 3. A casting system according to claim 1, comprising detector means for providing signals indicative of the quality of the castings gripped by the gripping means. 4. A casting system according to claim 3, wherein the means for detecting the quality of the castings are connected to a processing unit which is arranged to control the transfer apparatus in a manner such that: if the signals indicative of the quality of the castings indicate that the castings gripped by the gripping means are complete, the apparatus deposits the castings in the discharge station, and if the signals indicative of the quality of the castings indicate that at least one of the castings gripped by the gripping means is not complete, the apparatus deposits the castings in a reject station. 5. A casting system according to claim 1, wherein the automated casting apparatus includes a Cartesian robot having: a straight horizontal guide which extends above and in the vicinity of the casting stations and of the collection station, and a robotic device which is mounted on a carriage movable along the guide and which can control the movements of the casting ladle in vertical planes parallel to one another and perpendicular to the guide. 6. A casting system according to claim 5, wherein the straight horizontal guide of the casting apparatus extends above and in the vicinity of the casting stations and of the collection station. 7. A casting system according to claim 1, wherein the casting stations and the collection station are arranged substantially in alignment. 8. A casting system according to claim 1, wherein the collection station is disposed in an intermediate position between at least one of the casting stations and at least one other of the casting stations. 9. A casting system according to claim 1, wherein the collection station is disposed on a support means mounted so as to be rotatable about a third vertical axis and provided with at least two furnaces, the rotatable support means being rotated about the third vertical axis in order to present one of the furnaces in a collection position closer to the casting stations and one of the furnaces in a loading position farther from the casting stations. 10. A casting system according to claim 1, comprising electronic processing means for controlling the movements of the casting apparatus and of the transfer apparatus in coordinated manner. 