A floor mopping assembly finding use in a cleaning robot. The cleaning robot may be remotely controlled or autonomous. In one embodiment, a feed roller lets out a roll of webbing or toweling, a take-up roller reels in the toweling, and a motor system causes transfer of the toweling between the feed roller and the take-up roller. A housing holds the motor system and the rollers, which are mounted in the housing such that the motor causes transfer of the webbing between the rollers. One of the rollers is configured to rest on the floor or surface so as to cause the toweling to clean the surface. In an alternative embodiment, the assembly also includes a pad to press the toweling against the surface, where the pad is mounted in the housing such that the motor causes transfer of the toweling between the rollers and between the pad and the surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A floor mopping assembly, comprising: a first roller configured to let out a web mounted on a roll; a second roller configured to reel in the web; a motor system configured to cause transfer of the web between the first roller and the second roller; a pad configured to press the web against a surface; and a housing to enclose the motor system, the first roller, the second roller and the pad, wherein the motor system, the first and second rollers, and the pad are mounted in the housing such that the motor causes transfer of the web between the first and second rollers and between the pad and the surface, and wherein the housing is part of an autonomous cleaning robot, and wherein the autonomous cleaning robot offloads the web after it has been soiled. 2. A floor mopping assembly, comprising: a first roller configured to let out a web mounted on a roll; a second roller configured to reel in the web; a motor system configured to cause transfer of the web between the first roller and the second roller; a pad configured to press the web against a surface, wherein the pad is compliant and non-absorbent; and a housing to enclose the motor system, the first roller, the second roller and the pad, wherein the motor system, the first and second rollers, and the pad are mounted in the housing such that the motor causes transfer of the web between the first and second rollers and between the pad and the surface, and wherein the floor mopping assembly automatically loads or offloads a length of the web. 3. A floor mopping assembly, comprising: a first roller configured to let out a web mounted on a roll, wherein the roll of web is encased in a watertight compartment; a second roller configured to reel in the web; a motor system configured to cause transfer of the web between the first roller and the second roller; a pad configured to press the web against a surface; and a housing to enclose the motor system, the flrst roller and its watertight compartment, the second roller, and the pad, wherein the motor system, the first and second rollers, and the pad are mounted in the housing such that the motor causes transfer of the web between the first and second rollers and between the pad and the surface. 4. A floor mopping assembly, comprising: a first roller configured to let out a web mounted on a roll, wherein the roll of web is encased in a disposable assembly; a second roller configured to reel in the web; a motor system configured to cause transfer of the web between the first roller and the second roller; a pad configured to press the web against a surface; and a housing to enclose the motor system, the first roller, the second roller and the pad, wherein the motor system, the first and second rollers, and the pad are mounted in the housing such that the motor causes transfer of the web between the first and second rollers and between the pad and the surface. 5. A floor mopping assembly, comprising: a computerized mobile chassis; a first roller configured to let out a roll of moistened webbing, wherein the roll of webbing is encased in a watertight compartment; a second roller configured to reel in the webbing; and a motor system configured to cause transfer of the webbing between the first roller and the second roller, wherein the motor system, the first roller and its watertight compartment, and the second roller are conveyed by the chassis. 6. A floor mopping assembly, comprising: a computerized mobile chassis; a first roller configured to let out a roll of webbing, wherein the roll of webbing is encased in a disposable assembly; a second roller configured to reel in the webbing; and a motor system configured to cause transfer of the webbing between the first roller and the second roller, wherein the motor system and the first and second rollers are conveyed by the chassis. 7. A method of mopping a surface with a floor mopping device, the method comprising: a) connecting a roll of webbing on a feed roller to a take-up roller; b) moving the floor mopping device without human intervention; c) pressing on a portion of the webbing such that the webbing cleans the surface; and d) transferring the portion of the webbing to the take-up roller, wherein the transferring includes determining when the webbing is soiled. 8. A method of mopping a surface with a floor mopping device, the method comprising: a) connecting a roll of webbing on a feed roller to a take-up roller; b) moving the floor mopping device without human intervention; c) pressing on a portion of the webbing such that the webbing cleans a surface; and d) transferring the portion of the webbing to the take-up roller, wherein the transferring includes determining when the mopping device has cleaned a predetermined area of the surface. 9. A floor mopping system, comprising: a floor mopping assembly, comprising: a first roller configured to let out a web mounted on a roll; a second roller configured to reel in the web; a motor system configured to cause transfer of the web between the first roller and the second roller; a pad configured to press the web against a surface; and a housing to enclose the motor system, the first roller, the second roller and the pad, wherein the motor system, the first and second rollers, and the pad are mounted in the housing such that the motor causes transfer of the web between the first and second rollers and between the pad and the surface; and a master controller separately housed from the floor mopping assembly, in data communication with the floor mopping assembly, and configured to control the floor mopping assembly, wherein the master controller is an autonomous mobile robot. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the housing is part of a cleaning robot. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the master controller includes sensors. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the master controller directs movement of the floor mopping assembly. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the master controller is a stationary computer. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the system includes one or more additional floor mopping assemblies controlled by the master controller. 15. The system of claim 9, wherein the pad is closed-cell foam or self-skinning open-cell foam. 16. The system of claim 9, wherein a portion of the roll of web is moistened prior to being pulled by the motor driven roller. 17. The system of claim 9, wherein the web comprises a paper-based material. 18. The system of claim 9, wherein the web comprises a cloth-based material. 19. A floor mopping system, comprising: a floor mopping assembly, comprising: a computerized mobile chassis; a first roller configured to let out a roll of webbing; a second roller configured to reel in the webbing; and a motor system configured to cause transfer of the webbing between the first roller and the second roller, wherein the motor system and the first and second rollers are conveyed by the chassis; and a master controller separately housed from the floor mopping assembly, in data communication with the floor mopping assembly, and configured to control the floor mopping assembly, wherein the master controller is an autonomous mobile robot. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the master controller includes sensors. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein the master controller directs movement of the floor mopping assembly. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein the master controller is a stationary computer. 23. The system of claim 19, wherein the system includes one or more additional floor mopping assemblies controlled by the master controller. 24. The system of claim 19, wherein the chassis includes at least one drive motor configured to provide mobility. 25. The system of claim 19, wherein the chassis includes a processor configured to control the motor system. 26. A floor mopping system, comprising: means for floor mopping, comprising: a computerized mobile chassis; first means for letting out a portion of webbing; second means for taking up the webbing; and motor means for causing transfer of the webbing between the first means and the second means; and control means, separately housed from the means for floor mopping, and in communication with the means for floor mopping, for controlling the means for floor mopping, wherein the control means is configured to autonomously navigate through an environment. 27. A method of mopping a surface with a floor mopping device, the method comprising: a) connecting a roll of webbing on a feed roller to a take-up roller; b) transmitting control signals from an autonomous master controller to the floor mopping device, wherein the autonomous master controller comprises one or more navigation sensors; c) moving the floor mopping device based on the control signals; d) sensing the movement of the floor mopping device using the navigation sensors thereby tracking the location of the floor mopping device; e) pressing on a portion of the webbing such that the webbing cleans a surface; and f) transferring the portion of the webbing to the take-up roller. 28. The method of claim 27, additionally comprising repeating b)-e) whereby an entire floor surface is mopped clean. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein the transferring includes moving the webbing via a motor system. 30. The method of claim 27, additionally comprising moistening a predetermined amount of the webbing prior to the pressing. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the moistening comprises applying a cleaning agent to the webbing. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein the moistening comprises applying a wax to the webbing, such that the surface is waxed. 33. A floor mopping system, comprising: a floor mopping assembly, comprising: a computerized mobile chassis; a first roller configured to let out a roll of webbing; a second roller configured to reel in the webbing; a motor system configured to cause transfer of the webbing between the first roller and the second roller, wherein the motor system and the first and second rollers are conveyed by the chassis; and a housing to enclose the chassis, the motor system, the first roller and the second roller, wherein the motor system, and the first and second rollers, are mounted such that the motor causes transfer of the webbing between the first and second rollers and one of the rollers is configured to rest on a surface; and a master controller separately housed from the floor mopping assembly, in data communication with the floor mopping assembly, and configured to control the floor mopping assembly. 34. A method of mopping a surface with a floor mopping device, the method comprising: a) connecting a roll of webbing on a feed roller to a take-up roller; b) transmitting control signals from an autonomous master controller to the floor mopping device; c) moving the floor mopping device based on the control signals; d) pressing on a portion of the webbing such that the webbing cleans a surface; and e) transferring the portion of the webbing to the take-up roller, wherein the transferring includes determining when the webbing is soiled. 35. A method of mopping a surface with a floor mopping device, the method comprising: a) connecting a roll of webbing on a feed roller to a take-up roller; b) transmitting control signals from an autonomous master controller to the floor mopping device; c) moving the floor mopping device based on the control signals; d) pressing on a portion of the webbing such that the webbing cleans a surface; and e) transferring the portion of the webbing to the take-up roller, wherein the transferring includes determining when the mopping device has cleaned a predetermined area of the surface. 36. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the second roller is not in the watertight compartment. 37. The assembly of claim 5, wherein the watertight compartment has a seal around an opening of the compartment, such that the webbing remains moistened between uses. 