A method of using a multi-purpose processing apparatus for simultaneously performing an injection molding operation and a cutting/forming operation. The multi-purpose apparatus places a forming operation into unused space within the injection molding machine, thereby utilizing the already present injection molding clamping pressure to pressure form parts. The apparatus results in a method that combines the three steps of forming, cutting, and injection molding into one continuous operation performed within the injection molding machine, as well as eliminating the need for numerous pre-injection molding steps.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of forming, cutting, and injection molding a printed stock in web form, the method comprising the steps of: forming a first portion of the printed stock within a forming portion of an injection molding machine; advancing the first portion of the printed stock after it has been formed into an injection molding portion of the injection molding machine and a second portion of the printed stock into the forming portion of the injection molding machine; injection molding the first portion of the printed stock and simultaneously cutting the first portion of the printed stock within the injection molding portion of the injection molding machine; and forming the second portion of the printed stock within the forming portion of the injection molding machine while simultaneously cutting and injection molding the first portion of the printed stock within the injection molding portion of the injection molding machine. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of cutting the first portion of the printed stock within a cutting portion of the injection molding machine, substantially simultaneously with the forming and injection molding steps. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the printed stock is advanced through the injection molding machine by a web feed system. 4. A method of forming and injection molding a printed stock in web form, the method comprising the steps of: forming a first portion of the printed stock within a forming portion of an injection molding machine; advancing the first portion of the printed stock after it has been formed into an injection molding portion of the injection molding machine and a second portion of the printed stock into the forming portion of the injection molding machine; injection molding the first portion of the printed stock within the injection molding portion of the injection molding machine; and forming the second portion of the printed stock within the forming portion of the injection molding machine while simultaneously injection molding the first portion of the printed stock within the injection molding portion of the injection molding machine. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of rolling the printed stock after the printed stock is injection molded. 6. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of cutting the printed stock within the injection molding portion of the injection molding machine. 