An apparatus for traversing obstacles having an elongated, round, flexible body that includes a plurality of drive track assemblies. The plurality of drive track assemblies cooperate to provide forward propulsion wherever a propulsion member is in contact with any feature of the environment, regardless of how many or which ones of the plurality of drive track assemblies make contact with such environmental feature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a plurality of segments; a plurality of articulating joints individually interconnecting at least a portion of said segments; a plurality of drive track assemblies operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of drive track assemblies generally disposed about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; a power source; and a power transmission system interconnecting said power source and at least a portion of said drive track assemblies to drive said at least a portion of said drive track assemblies. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of drive track assemblies comprises: a continuous drive track; a drive gear operably coupled to said power transmission system; a driven gear enmeshingly engaging said drive gear; and a track gear fixed for rotation with said driven gear, said track gear enmeshingly engaging said continuous drive track to drive said continuous drive track to propel the apparatus. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of drive track assemblies comprises: a continuous drive track having an environment engaging outer surface and a racked inner surface; a worm gear operably coupled to said power transmission system; a first gear enmeshingly engaging said worm gear; a second gear enmeshingly engaging said first gear; a third gear enmeshingly engaging said second gear, said third gear having a drive shaft fixed thereto for rotation therewith; and a pair of driven gears fixed to said drive shaft for rotation with said drive shaft, each of said pair of driven gears engaging said racked inner surface of said continuous drive track to drive said continuous drive track. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a pair of said plurality of drive track assemblies is disposed on each of four sides of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of segments is identical and interchangeable. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; and a controller mounted in said head segment, said controller driving said plurality of drive track assemblies. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein each of said pair of drive track assemblies is independently actuated in response to said controller to provide selective propulsion along only a pair of said plurality of drive track assemblies. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6, further comprising: a sensor system for gathering data, said sensor system being in communication with said controller. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said power transmission system comprises: a plurality of drive members individually extending through each of said plurality of segments, each of said plurality of drive members driving at least a corresponding one of said plurality of drive track assemblies; and a plurality of universal joints pivotally interconnecting said plurality of drive members in series, thereby defining a continuous drive train driven by said power source. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each of said plurality of articulating joints includes at least two degrees of freedom, each of said degrees of freedom being actuated by a separate actuator. 11. A robotic device comprising: a plurality of segments pivotally interconnected to form an elongated member; a plurality of drive track assemblies operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of drive track assemblies generally disposed in pairs about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; a power source; an articulating drive shaft rotatably driven by said power source; and a power transmission system interconnecting said articulating drive shaft and at least a portion of said drive track assemblies to drive said plurality of drive track assemblies. 12. The robotic device according to claim 11 wherein each of said plurality of drive track assemblies comprises: a continuous drive track; a drive gear operably coupled to said power transmission system; a driven gear enmeshingly engaging said drive gear; and a track gear fixed for rotation with said driven gear, said track gear enmeshingly engaging said continuous drive track to drive said continuous drive track to propel the apparatus. 13. The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein each of said plurality of drive track assemblies comprises: a continuous drive track having an environment engaging outer surface and a racked inner surface; a worm gear operably coupled to said power transmission system; a first gear enmeshingly engaging said worm gear; a second gear enmeshingly engaging said first gear; a third gear enmeshingly engaging said second gear, said third gear having a drive shaft fixed thereto for rotation therewith; and a pair of driven gears fixed to said drive shaft for rotation with said drive shaft, each of said pair of driven gears engaging said racked inner surface of said continuous drive track to drive said continuous drive track. 14. The robotic device according to claim 11 wherein each of said plurality of segments is identical and interchangeable. 15. The robotic device according to claim 11, further comprising: a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; a controller mounted in said head segment, said controller driving said plurality of drive track assemblies; and a sensor system mounted in said head segment, said sensor system being in communication with said controller. 16. A robotic device for traversing obstacles, said robotic device comprising: a plurality of segments pivotally interconnected to form an elongated member; a plurality of drive track assemblies operably coupled to each of said plurality of segments, said plurality of drive track assemblies generally disposed about a periphery of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery; a power source; an articulating drive shaft rotatably driven by said power source; a power transmission system interconnecting said articulating drive shaft and at least a portion of said drive track assemblies to drive said plurality of drive track assemblies; a head segment coupled to one of said plurality of segments; a controller mounted in said head segment, said controller driving said plurality of drive track assemblies; and a sensor system mounted in said head segment, said sensor system being in communication with said controller. 17. The robotic device according to claim 16 wherein each of said plurality of drive track assemblies comprises: a continuous drive track; a drive gear operably coupled to said power transmission system; a driven gear enmeshingly engaging said drive gear; and a track gear fixed for rotation with said driven gear, said track gear enmeshingly engaging said continuous drive track to drive said continuous drive track to propel the apparatus. 18. The robotic device according to claim 16 wherein each of said plurality of drive track assemblies comprises: a continuous drive track having an environment engaging outer surface and a racked inner surface; a worm gear operably coupled to said power transmission system; a first gear enmeshingly engaging said worm gear; a second gear enmeshingly engaging said first gear; a third gear enmeshingly engaging said second gear, said third gear having a drive shaft fixed thereto for rotation therewith; and a pair of driven gears fixed to said drive shaft for rotation with said drive shaft, each of said pair of driven gears engaging said racked inner surface of said continuous drive track to drive said continuous drive track. 19. The robotic device according to claim 16 wherein a pair of said plurality of drive track assemblies is disposed on each of four sides of each of said plurality of segments to provide traction at any position about said periphery. 20. The robotic device according to claim 16 wherein each of said plurality of segments is identical and interchangeable. 