A plasma treatment system wherein workpieces are carried in slots in a magazine. The plasma treatment system has first and second plasma treatment chambers mounted on a common base a base. A queuing station is located on the base for receiving the magazines. A magazine handler moves a magazine to a location adjacent one of the first and second plasma treatment chambers. A workpiece handler transfers a workpiece between the magazine and the one of the first and second plasma treatment chambers. The workpiece handler has a workpiece translator with a first surface that contacts a first edge of the workpiece for pushing the workpiece into the plasma treatment chamber. In addition, the workpiece translator has a second surface that contacts an opposite edge of the workpiece for pushing the workpiece out of the plasma treatment chamber. There are various methods relating to the use of multiple plasma treatment chambers on a single base and the automatic handling of workpieces for loading and unloading the multiple plasma treatment chambers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for treating workpieces with a plasma, wherein a plurality of workpieces are carried in slots within a magazine, said system comprising: at least one plasma treatment chamber having a processing space within the plasma treatment chamber; a magazine indexer; a magazine handler adapted to support a magazine, said magazine handler being operable to position the magazine on said magazine indexer and said magazine indexer being operable to position the magazine at a plurality of vertical positions corresponding to vertical positions of the slots; a kicker having an end effector to eject a workpiece from the magazine; and a pinch wheel assembly to move the workpiece from the magazine to a first position outside the plasma treatment chamber; and a workpiece translator having a first surface adapted to contact a first edge of the workpiece, said workpiece translator being operable to move the workplace with said first surface from a first position to said processing space within said plasma treatment chamber, and a second surface adapted to contact an opposed, second edge of the workpiece, and said workpiece translator being operable to move the workpiece with said second surface from the processing space within the plasma processing chamber to the first position outside the plasma processing chamber. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said kicker comprises an end effector and a pneumatic cylinder operably attached to said end effector, said end effector positioned to eject one of said workpieces from a slot in the magazine when actuated by the cylinder. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said pinch wheel assembly comprises a drive wheel, a motor operably connected to said drive wheel for rotation thereof, a pneumatic cylinder operably connected to said drive wheel for applying a downward frictional force to an upper surface of the workpiece, and an idler wheel for supporting a lower surface of the workpiece. 4. A system for handling workpieces to be treated in a plasma treatment chamber, the system comprising: a magazine handler adapted to support a magazine, said magazine handler being operable to move the magazine to a location adjacent the plasma treatment chamber; and a workpiece handler comprising a cylinder having an end effector contacting an edge of the workpiece and pushing the workpiece out of the magazine in response to said cylinder being operated, and an apparatus for transferring the workpiece into and out of said plasma treatment chamber, the apparatus having a first surface adapted to contact one edge of the workpiece, said workpiece handler being operable to push against the one edge of the workpiece to move the workpiece into the plasma treatment chamber, and a second surface adapted to contact an opposite edge of the workpiece, said workpiece handler being operable to push against the opposite edge of the workpiece to move the workpiece out of the plasma treatment chamber. 5. The system for handling workpieces of claim 4 further comprising a first sensor mounted on said first apparatus and providing a feedback signal indicating a presence and absence of a workpiece in a slot of the magazine. 6. The system for handling workpieces of claim 4 wherein said first apparatus further comprises a pincher device adapted to contact opposite sides of the workpiece and pull the workpiece out of the magazine. 7. The system for handing workpieces of claim 6 wherein said end effector of said cylinder is aligned with said pincher device such that said end effector pushes the workpiece out of the magazine into said pincher device. 8. The system for handling workpieces of claim 6 wherein said pincher device comprises: an idler wheel adapted to contact one side of the workpiece; a drive wheel mounted for motion toward and away from said idler wheel and adapted to contact an opposite side of the workpiece; a support block having said drive wheel rotationally mounted therein; a cylinder operatively connected to said support block for moving said drive wheel toward and away from said idler wheel; and a motor operatively connected to said drive wheel to rotate said drive wheel in a desired direction, thereby moving the workpiece through said pincher device in a desired direction. 9. The system for handling workpieces of claim 8 further comprising second sensors mounted on said pincher device for providing feedback signals indicating a presence of an edge of the workpiece. 10. The system for handling workpieces of claim 9 wherein one of said second sensors is located on one side of said idler wheel and another of said second sensors is located on an opposite side of said idler wheel, said second sensors providing feedback signals representing a direction of motion of the workpiece across said pincher device. 11. The system for handling workpieces of claim 10 wherein said feedback signals from said second sensors represent a leading edge of the workpiece moving across said pincher device. 12. The system for handling workpieces of claim 10 wherein said feedback signals from said second sensors represent a trailing edge of the workpiece moving across said pincher device. 13. The system for handling workpieces of claim 4 wherein said second apparatus comprises a workpiece translator having a pusher arm with first and second opposed sides containing the first and second surfaces, respectively. 14. The system for handling workpieces of claim 13 wherein said workpiece translator comprises an actuator for moving said pusher arm in a substantially vertical direction. 15. The system for handling workpieces of claim 13 wherein said workpiece translator comprises an actuator for moving said pusher arm in a substantially horizontal direction. 16. The system for handling workpieces of claim 13 wherein said pusher arm is resiliently connected to said workpiece translator, so that said pusher arm moves opposite its driven motion in response to the workpiece not moving when contracted by said pusher arm. 17. The system for handling workpieces of claim 4 further comprising an electronic control electrically connected to both of said first and said second apparatus. 