A container for use in a processing chamber to lessen the amount of contaminant particles found within the chamber after processing. The container fits closely within the chamber and includes ports for a gas conduit and a vacuum conduit. The container may be locked to the chamber through a locking mechanism and a recess in the container. The container may be guided into the chamber with a plurality of chamfers. The container may be used in inductively coupled plasma chambers, electron cyclotron resonance chambers, and chambers capable of receiving microwaves.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A removable container for use with a work piece processing chamber, said container comprising: a removable housing defining an enclosed space within which a work piece can be mounted and processed, said housing including a door for access to said enclosed space, said housing having a configuration which permits said housing to be inserted into and removed from a work piece processing chamber, wherein said removable housing is adapted to perform processing comprising plasma or chemical processing of said work piece within said work piece processing chamber said chemical processing comprising reactive chemical processing; and at least one port provided in said housing which is adapted to communicate work piece processing fluids received from said processing chamber into said enclosed space. 2. The container of claim 1, wherein at least a pair of ports are located in said housing, one said port for receiving a gas conduit and at least one other said port for receiving a vacuum. 3. The container of claim 1 wherein said work piece processing fluids comprise purging and reactive processing fluids. 4. The container of claim 1, wherein the work piece is a reticule. 5. The container of claim 1, wherein the work piece is a semiconductor wafer. 6. The container of claim 1, wherein the work piece is an integrated circuit package. 7. The container of claim 1, wherein the work piece is a lead frame. 8. The container of claim 1, further comprising a locking mechanism for releaseably holding said container within a processing chamber. 9. The container of claim 8, wherein said locking mechanism comprises a recess for mating with a locking element of a processing chamber. 10. The container of claim 1, wherein one said container port is adapted to receive a gas for plasma etching. 11. The container of claim 10, further comprising a gas conduit positioned through and sealed to said gas port. 12. The container of claim 1, further comprising a vacuum conduct in fluid communication with said at least one vacuum port. 13. The container of claim 12, wherein said vacuum conduit is sealed to said at least one vacuum port. 14. The container of claim 12, further comprising a plurality of vacuum ports. 15. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is generally dome shaped. 16. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is generally cylindrical. 17. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is generally cylindrical and has a dome portion. 18. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is made of one or more materials within the group composed of conductive materials, dielectric materials, insulative materials, and partly conductive materials. 19. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is made of a conductive material. 20. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is made of a dielectric material. 21. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is made of an insulative material. 22. The container of claim 1, wherein the container is made of a partly conductive material. 23. The container of claim 1 wherein said work piece processing comprises reactive processing. 24. A removable container for use with a work piece processing chamber, said container comprising: a removable housing defining an enclosed space within which a work piece can be mounted and processed, said housing including a door for access to said enclosed space, said housing having a configuration which permits said housing to be inserted into and removed from a work piece processing chamber, wherein said removable housing further comprises one or more structures adapted to perform work piece processing in which mechanical changes or chemical reactions occur at the work piece or at the work piece surface; and at least one port provided in said housing adapted to communicate work piece processing fluids received from said processing chamber into said enclosed space during said work piece processing. 25. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said work piece processing fluids comprise purging and reactive processing fluids. 26. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said work piece processing comprises reactive processing. 27. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said work piece processing comprises a photochemical reaction. 28. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said work piece processing comprises radiation processing. 29. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said work piece processing comprises an electron beam processing. 30. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said work piece processing comprises an ion beam processing. 31. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein at least a pair of ports are located in said housing, one said ports is adapted to receive a gas conduit and at least one other said ports is adapted to receive a vacuum conduit, said gas conduit and vacuum conduit are also coupled to said processing chamber, said pair of ports is adapted to respectively supply gas and vacuum to said housing during said work piece processing. 32. A removable container as in claim 31, wherein said work piece is a reticule. 33. A removable container as in claim 31, wherein said work piece is a semiconductor wafer. 34. A removable container as in claim 31, wherein said work piece is an integrated circuit package. 35. A removable container as in claim 31, wherein said work piece is a lead frame. 36. A removable container as in claim 24, further comprising a locking mechanism for releasably holding said container within said processing chamber. 37. A removable container as in claim 36, wherein said locking mechanism comprises a recess for mating with a locking element of said processing chamber. 38. A removable container as in claim 31, wherein one of said at least one port provided in said housing is adapted to receive a gas used during plasma etching. 39. A removable container as in claim 38, further comprising a gas conduit positioned and sealed to said gas port within said housing. 40. A removable container as in claim 31, further comprising a vacuum conduit in fluid communication with said at least one said vacuum port. 41. A removable container as in claim 40, wherein said vacuum conduit is sealed to said at least one vacuum port in said housing. 42. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein the container is generally dome-shaped. 43. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein the container is generally cylindrical. 44. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein the container is generally cylindrical and has a dome portion. 45. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said container is made of at least one material within the group consisting of conductive materials, dielectric materials, insulative materials and partly conductive materials. 46. A removable container as in claim 24, wherein said removable housing is coupled to said chamber by one or more coupling structures, at least one of said coupling structures adapted to supply a required input or substance for use with said one or more structures adapted to perform work piece processing. 