An apparatus and method for measuring the erosion profile of a metallic target in a sputtering device are provided by inserting a thin sensor into a gap between the target and a substrate pedestal. The sensor is configured to emit an energy beam toward the surface of the target and detect a reflection of the energy beam. The sensor may comprise a source element configured to emit a collimated light beam and a plurality of detectors arranged in a linear array. The sensor may also comprise optical fibers configured to reduce the size of the sensor. The detectors are positioned relative to the source element so that one of the detectors in the array will be illuminated by a reflection of the collimated light beam. The distance from the sensor to the target may be derived from the position of the detector illuminated by the reflected beam.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring the erosion of a sputtering target surface, the apparatus comprising: a sensor configured to emit an energy beam toward the target surface and to detect a reflection of the energy beam from the target surface; and an arm coupled to the sensor, the arm configured to transport the sensor relative to the target surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the energy beam comprises one of a visible light beam, an ultraviolet light beam, an infrared light beam, a radio frequency beam, a microwave beam and an ultrasound beam. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor is further configured to scan at least a portion of the target surface. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a pedestal positioned proximate the target surface, wherein the sensor and the arm coupled thereto are configured, positioned and sized to enter a gap between the target surface and the pedestal, wherein the arm is further configured to transport the sensor into the gap without contacting the pedestal or target surface. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the arm is further configured to remove the sensor from the gap and to isolate the sensor from the target surface during a sputter deposition process. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a robot configured to attach to the arm and to transport the arm relative to the target surface. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the robot is further configured to transport a substrate to and from a pedestal positioned proximate the target surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the arm is further configured to transport the sensor along a linear path over the target surface between a center of the target surface and an outer edge of the target surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises a plurality of detectors and a source element configured to emit the energy beam. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the plurality of detectors is disposed in a linear array. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of detectors is configured to generate an electronic sensory signal related to a magnitude of the reflection of the energy beam incident thereon. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of detectors comprises a collimator configured to collect the reflection of the energy beam incident thereon into a corresponding optical fiber. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a receiver optically coupled to each collimator through its corresponding optical fiber, the receiver configured to generate an electronic sensory signal for each collimator related to a magnitude of the reflection of the energy beam incident thereon. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the source element is further configured to generate the energy beam. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the energy beam is a collimated light beam. 16. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the source element comprises a collimator configured to collimate the energy beam as it exits an optical fiber. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a transmitter optically coupled to the source element through the optical fiber, the transmitter configured to transmit the energy beam to the collimator. 18. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the plurality of detectors comprises at least a first detector located in relation to the source element so as to be illuminated by the reflection of the energy beam when substantially none of the target surface has eroded at a location being measured. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the plurality of detectors comprises at least a second detector located in relation to the source element so as to be illuminated by the reflection of the energy beam when substantially all of the target surface has eroded at the location being measured. 20. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the source element is configured to emit the energy beam at an acute angle relative to a disposition of the plurality of detectors. 21. A method for profiling a sputtering target surface, the method comprising: selectively positioning a sensor relative to a first location of the target surface; emitting an energy beam from the sensor; illuminating the first location with the emitted energy beam; detecting a reflection of the energy beam from the first location; analyzing the detected reflection of the energy beam to determine a distance from the sensor to the first location; and selectively positioning the sensor relative to a second location of the target surface. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein selectively positioning the sensor comprises moving the sensor with a robot. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein selectively positioning the sensor relative to the first location and the second location comprises successively positioning the sensor at two locations along a straight line positioned between a center of the target surface and an outer edge of the target surface. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein selectively positioning the sensor relative to the first location comprises inserting the sensor into a gap between the target surface and a pedestal positioned proximate the target surface. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein selectively positioning the sensor relative to the second location comprises removing the sensor from the gap. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein analyzing the detected reflection of the energy beam comprises: measuring a time delay between emitting the energy beam and detecting the reflection of the energy beam; multiplying the measured time delay by the speed of the emitted energy beam; and dividing by two. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein measuring the time delay comprises measuring a phase difference between the emitted energy beam and the detected reflection of the energy beam. 28. The method of claim 21, wherein analyzing the detected reflection of the energy beam comprises comparing a power level of the emitted energy beam with a detected power level of the reflection of the energy beam. 29. The method of claim 21, wherein emitting the energy beam comprises collimating the energy beam as it exits an optical fiber. 30. The method of claim 21, wherein detecting the reflection of the energy beam comprises: illuminating at least one detector of a plurality of detectors with the reflection of the energy beam, the plurality of detectors forming a linear array; and for each of the at least one detector, generating an electronic sensory signal related to a magnitude of the reflection of the energy beam incident thereon. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising collecting a portion of the reflection of the energy beam into an optical fiber. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein analyzing the detected reflection of the energy beam comprises: comparing the electronic sensory signals; determining a position in the linear array of at least one detector illuminated with the greatest magnitude of radiation; and relating the array position to an amount of target erosion. 33. A sputter deposition system comprising: sensor circuitry configured to emit an energy beam toward a target surface and to detect a reflection of the energy beam from the target surface; an arm configured to attach to at least a portion of the sensor circuitry, the arm configured to transport the at least a portion of the sensor circuitry relative to the target surface; and a controller electrically coupled to the sensor circuitry, the controller configured to determine a distance from the at least a portion of the sensor circuitry to the target surface. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the energy beam comprises one of a visible light beam, an ultraviolet light beam, an infrared light beam, a radio frequency beam, a microwave beam and an ultrasound beam. 35. The system of claim 33, wherein the controller is further configured to transmit a first electrical signal to the sensor circuitry and to receive a plurality of second electrical signals from the sensor circuitry. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the sensor circuitry is configured to emit the energy beam upon receiving the first electrical signal from the controller. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein the sensor circuitry comprises a transmitter optically coupled to a collimator, the transmitter configured to receive the first electrical signal from the controller and to transmit the energy beam to the collimator upon receiving the first electrical signal. 38. The system of claim 35, wherein the sensor circuitry comprises a plurality of detectors configured to generate the plurality of second electrical signals, each of the plurality of second electrical signals being related to a magnitude of the reflection of the energy beam incident upon a corresponding one of the plurality of detectors. 39. The system of claim 35, wherein the sensor circuitry comprises a receiver optically coupled to a plurality of collimators configured to collect the reflection of the energy beam from the target surface, the receiver configured to generate the plurality of second electrical signals in relation to a magnitude of the reflection of the energy beam incident upon the plurality of collimators. 40. The system of claim 35, wherein the controller is further configured to analyze the plurality of second electrical signals to determine the distance from the at least a portion of the sensor circuitry to the target surface. 41. The system of claim 33, further comprising a pedestal positioned proximate the target surface, wherein at least a portion of the sensor circuitry is configured, positioned and sized to enter a gap between the target surface and the pedestal. 42. The system of claim 33, further comprising a robot operably coupled to the controller, the robot configured to move the arm relative to the target surface. 43. The system of claim 33, further comprising at least one peripheral device configured to electrically couple to the controller, wherein the at least one peripheral device comprises one of chamber circuitry, an input device, an output device and a data storage device. 