Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, a characteristic of a specimen prior to, during, or subsequent to ion implantation. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to a characteristic of a specimen during use, comprising: an ion implanter configured to direct ions toward the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the ion implanter, wherein the measurement device is configured: to periodically direct an incident beam of light to a region of the specimen to periodically excite the region of the specimen during use; to direct a sample beam of light to the periodically excited region of the specimen during use; to measure an intensity of the sample beam reflected from the periodically excited region of the specimen during use; and to generate one or more output signals responsive to the measured intensity of the reflected sample beam; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine a characteristic of the region of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the measurement device, wherein the stage is configured to move laterally during use. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the measurement device, wherein the stage is configured to move rotatably during use. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stage coupled to the measurement device, wherein the stage is configured to move laterally and rotatably during use. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising an additional measurement device coupled to the ion implanter, wherein the processor is further configured to determine an additional property of the specimen from one or more output signals generated by the additional measurement device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the characteristic is selected from the group consisting of a presence of ions in the region, a concentration of ions in the region, a depth of the region, and a distribution profile of the region. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine at least two characteristics of the implanted region substantially simultaneously during use. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further configured to periodically direct the incident beam of light to multiple regions of the specimen substantially simultaneously during use, to direct the sample beam of light to the multiple periodically excited regions of the specimen substantially simultaneously during use, and to measure the intensity of the sample beam reflected from the multiple periodically excited regions of the specimen substantially simultaneously during use such that the characteristic of multiple regions of the specimen can be determined substantially simultaneously. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a process chamber of the ion implanter. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the ion implanter. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the ion implanter, and wherein the ion implanter comprises a wafer handler configured to move the specimen to a stage coupled to the measurement device during use. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the ion implanter, and wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen from the measurement device to the ion implanter during use. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the ion implanter, and wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen to the process chamber of the ion implanter during use. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the characteristic of the specimen while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the ion implanter comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during an ion implantation process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of a stage coupled to the measurement device. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the ion implanter comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during an ion implantation process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially perpendicular to an upper surface of a stage coupled to the measurement device. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of the etch tool. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the ion implanter, and wherein the stage is configured to support the specimen during an ion implantation process step. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the ion implanter, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the characteristic of the region during an ion implantation process step. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the ion implanter, and wherein the processor is further configured to obtain a signature characterizing the implantation of ions during use, and wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity representative of an end of the implantation of ions. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further coupled to a stage disposed within a process chamber of the ion implanter, wherein the processor is coupled to the ion implanter, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the ion implanter in response to the determined characteristic using an in situ control technique during use. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the ion implanter comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, and wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the ion implanter comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, wherein a stage coupled to the measurement device is configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the property of the specimen as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the determined characteristic of the region and characteristics of a plurality of regions during use. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the determined characteristic of the region to a predetermined range for the characteristic during use. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if the determined characteristic of the region is outside of the predetermined range for the characteristic during use. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the measurement device in response to the determined characteristic of the region during use. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to the determined characteristic using a feedback control technique during use. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more measurements coupled to the measurement device in response to the determined characteristic using a feedforward control technique during use. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the determined characteristic of the region. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the measurement device using the database during use. 33. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by measurement device using the database during use. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the determined characteristic of the region and characteristics of a plurality of regions, and wherein the characteristics of the plurality of regions are determined using the measurement device. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the determined characteristic of the region and characteristics of a plurality of regions, and wherein the characteristics of the plurality of regions are determined using a plurality of measurement devices. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 38. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system during use. 39. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system during use. 40. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, and wherein the processor is configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to at least one of the determined properties of the specimen at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of at least one of the determined properties. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the ion implanter. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the ion implanter, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the ion implanter in response to the determined characteristic using a feedback control technique during use. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the ion implanter, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the ion implanter in response to the determined characteristic using a feedforward control technique during use. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the ion implanter, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the ion implanter during use. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the ion implanter, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the ion implanter during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between the determined characteristic and at least one of the monitored parameters during use. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to the ion implanter, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the ion implanter during use, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between the determined characteristic and at least one of the monitored parameters during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of at least one of the instruments in response to the relationship during use. 47. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of measurement devices, and wherein at least one of the plurality of measurement devices is coupled to an ion implanter. 48. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a plurality of ion implanters, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the plurality of ion implanters during use. 49. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the measurement device and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 50. The system of claim 49, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the characteristic of the region during use. 51. The system of claim 49, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the characteristic of the region during use. 52. A system configured to determine a characteristic of a specimen during use, comprising: an ion implanter configured to direct ions toward the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the ion implanter, wherein the measurement device is configured: to periodically direct an incident beam of light to a region of the specimen to periodically excite the region of the specimen during use; to direct a sample beam of light to the periodically excited region of the specimen during use; to measure an intensity of the sample beam reflected from the periodically excited region of the specimen during use; and to generate one or more output signals responsive to the measured intensity of the reflected sample beam during use; a local processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals during use; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more output signals and to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals to determine a characteristic of the region of the specimen. 