An integrated cellular network structure that is programmable to solve partial derivative differential equations in order to control a phenomenon of diffusion or a propagation of electric drive pulses for robot actuators. Such structure includes analog and digital portions interconnected with each other; the analog portion having a matrix array of analog cells arranged to receive data from an I/O interface, and the digital portion having first and second memory arrays for storing a desired configuration and the initial state of such analog matrix array, respectively.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated cellular network structure that is programmable to solve partial derivative differential equations in order to control a phenomenon of diffusion or a propagation of electric drive pulses for robot actuators, comprising analog and digital portions interconnected to each other, said analog portion including a matrix array of analog cells arranged to receive data from an input/output interface, and said digital portion comprising a first and a second memory matrix arrays arranged to store a desired configuration and the initial state, respectively, of said analog matrix array. 2. The integrated structure of claim 1 wherein said memory matrix arrays are structurally independent. 3. The integrated structure of claim 1, comprising in the analog matrix array a block connected to said interface for setting predetermined initial conditions to the structure. 4. The integrated structure of claim 3 wherein said predetermined initial conditions comprise setting potential values for capacitors contained in the analog matrix array. 5. The integrated structure of claim 1 wherein the cells of the analog matrix array are two-layer cells. 6. The integrated structure of claim 5 wherein each analog cell includes a block having a variable time constant for individually modifying the frequency of each cell. 7. The integrated structure of claim 6 wherein the block comprises a time constant block having at least one switch for selectively connecting each capacitor to corresponding resistors. 8. The integrated structure of claim 1 wherein said analog cell (includes current multipliers driven by digital signals. 9. The integrated of claim 1 wherein each cell includes at least a Laplacian block operative to control the interaction between adjacent cells of the analog matrix array. 10. The integrated structure of claim 1 configured to solve the following differential equations: 11. An integrated cellular network structure programmable to solve partial derivative differential equations for controlling diffusion and propagation of electric drive pulses for robotic actuators, the structure comprising: an analog circuit having a matrix array of analof cells configured to receive data from an input/output interface; and a digital circuit comprising a first memory matrix array configured to store a desired configuration of the matrix array of the analog circuit and a second memory matrix array configured to store an initial state of the matrix array of the analog circuit. 12. The structure of claim 11 wherein the analog and digital circuits are interconnected and configured to solve the following differential equations: 13. An integrated cellular network structure programmable to solve partial derivative differential equations in order to control diffusion and propagation of electric drive pulses for robotic actuators, the structure comprising: an analog circuit comprising a matrix array of two-layer analog cells configured to receive data from an input/output interface, each two-layer cell comprising a block having a variable time constant for individually modifying a frequency of each analog two-layer cell; and a digital circuit comprising a first memory matrix array configured to store a desired configuration of the matrix array of the analog circuit and a second memory matrix array configured to store an initial state of the matrix array of the analog circuit. 14. The structure of claim 13 wherein the analog and digital circuits are interconnected and configured to solve the following differential equations: 15. The structure of claim 14 wherein the block in each two-layer analog cell comprises a time constant block having at least one switch for selectively connecting capacitors in the matrix array of the analog circuit for setting potential values for the predetermined initial conditions. 