Disclosed herein are proteins that include a fibronectin type III domain having at least one randomized loop. Also disclosed herein are nucleic acids encoding such proteins and the use of such proteins in diagnostic methods and in methods for evolving novel compound-binding species and their ligands.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for obtaining a scaffold-based protein that binds to a compound, said method comprising: (a) contacting a compound with a library of scaffold-based proteins under conditions that allow binding to form a compound-scaffold-based protein complex, wherein the scaffold is derived from the tenth module of human fibronectin type III (.sup.10 Fn3), said tenth module having the amino acid sequence, VSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLISWDAPAVTVRYYRITYGETGGNSPVQEFTVPGSKS TATISGLKPGVDYTITVYAVTGRGDSPASSKPISINYRT, said library comprising scaffold-based proteins having at least three randomized loops and being characterized by their ability to bind to a compound that is not bound by said human .sup.10 Fn3; and (b) obtaining, from said complex, a scaffold-based protein that binds to said compound and that has at least one amino acid alteration in each of three loops relative to the human .sup.10 Fn3 sequence. 2. A method for obtaining a compound that binds to a scaffold-based protein, said method comprising: (a) contacting a scaffold-based protein with a candidate compound under conditions that allow binding to form a compound-scaffold-based protein complex, wherein the scaffold is derived from the tenth module of human fibronectin type III (.sup.10 Fn3), said tenth module having the amino acid sequence, VSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLISWDAPAVTVRYYRITYGETGGNSPVQEFTVPGSKS TATISGLKPGVDYTITVYAVTGRGDSPASSKPISINYRT, said scaffold-based protein having at least one amino acid alteration in each of three loops relative to the human .sup.10 Fn3 sequence, said scaffold-based protein being characterized by its ability to bind to a compound that is not bound by said human .sup.10 Fn3; and (b) obtaining, from said complex, a compound that binds to said scaffold-based protein. 3. The method of claim 1, said method further comprising further randomizing at least one loop of said human fibronectin type III domain of said protein obtained in step (b) and repeating said steps (a) and (b) using said further randomized protein. 4. The method of claim 2, said method further comprising modifying said compound obtained in step (b) and repeating said steps (a) and (b) using said further modified compound. 5. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said compound is a protein. 6. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein at least one of said randomized loops is extended in length relative to the corresponding loop of human .sup.10 Fn3. 7. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said .sup.10 Fn3 lacks an integrin-binding motif. 8. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein said protein is covalently bound to a nucleic acid. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said nucleic acid encodes said protein. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein said nucleic acid is RNA. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said compound is immobilized on a solid support. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein said scaffold-based protein is immobilized on a solid support. 13. The method of claim 11 or 12, wherein said solid support is a column or microchip. 14. A method for detecting a compound in a sample, said method comprising: (a) contacting said sample with a scaffold-based protein which binds to said compound under conditions that allow binding to form a compound-scaffold-based protein complex, wherein the scaffold is derived from the tenth module of human fibronectin type III (.sup.10 Fn3), said tenth module having the amino acid sequence, VSDVPRDLEVVAATPTSLLISWDAPAVTVRYYRITYGETGGNSPVQEFTVPGSKS TATISGLKPGVDYTITVYAVTGRGDSPASSKPISINYRT, said scaffold-based protein having at least one amino acid alteration in each of three loops relative to the human .sup.10 Fn3 sequence, said scaffold-based protein being characterized by its ability to bind to a compound that is not bound by said human .sup.10 Fn3; and (b) detecting said complex, thereby detecting said compound in said sample. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said scaffold-based protein is immobilized on a solid support. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said scaffold-based protein is immobilized on said solid support as part of an array. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said solid support is a chip or bead. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein said scaffold-based protein is covalently bound to a nucleic acid. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said nucleic acid encodes and scaffold-based protein. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said nucleic acid is RNA. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein said compound is a protein. 22. The method of claim 14, wherein said compound is detected by radiography, fluorescence detection, mass spectroscopy, or surface plasmon resonance. 