Robot-related information held at a robot user and data held at a robot manufacturer are used to enhance the user's sense of attachment to the robot. Each terminal device is operable to send information about the robot to a telecommunication line and to receive answer information sent from a server to the robot user via the telecommunication line. The server generates answer information on the basis of robot-related information sent from the personal terminal device and previously stored reference information corresponding to the robot-related information; and sends the answer information to the personal terminal device--via the telecommunication line. The answer information is for example a diagnostic report on the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot management system comprising: means for transmitting via a telecommunication line robotic related information relating to a robot which acts autonomously based on an external and/or an internal factor; means for storing reference information in accordance with the robot; means for generating answer information based on the robotic related information and the reference information; and means for transmitting via a telecommunication line the answer information to the owner of the robot. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the robot exhibits a growth level that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor, and the robot acts in accordance with the changed growth level; wherein the robotic related information is indicative of the changed growth level of the robot; and wherein the answer information is indicative of a growth transition of the robot which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein the robot exhibits a character that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor and the robot acts in accordance with the character; the robotic related information is indicative of the character of the robot; and the answer information is indicative of a character correction of the robot which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 4. The system according to claim 1 wherein the robotic related information is state information representing the state of moving parts of the robot; and the answer information is indicative of a result of a diagnosis of the robot based on the state information. 5. The system according to claim 4, further comprising means for sending to the owner of the robot via the telecommunication line a list of service personnel capable of a repair according to the diagnosis result. 6. The system according to claim 1 further comprising means for transmitting information indicative of a sending date; and means for sending to the owner of the robot a greeting card on a predetermined date determined by the sending date. 7. The system according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of the robotic related information is transmitted; and the generated answer information is based on a result of differentiation between the plurality of the robotic information. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the robotic related information is generated automatically. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the robotic related information comprises information generated by the owner of the robot. 10. A robot management method comprising the steps of: transmitting via a telecommunication line robotic related information relating to a robot which acts autonomously based on an external and/or an internal factor; storing reference information in accordance with the robot; generating answer information based on the robotic related information and the reference information; and transmitting via a telecommunication line the answer information to the owner of the robot. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein the robot exhibits a growth level that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor, and the robot acts in accordance with the changed growth level; wherein the robotic related information is indicative of the changed growth level of the robot; and wherein the answer information is indicative of a growth transition of the robot which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 12. The method according to claim 10 wherein the robot exhibits a character that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor and the robot acts in accordance with the character; the robotic related information is indicative of the character of the robot; and the answer information is indicative of a character correction of the robot which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 13. The method according to claim 10 wherein the robotic related information is state information representing the state of moving parts of the robot; and the answer information is indicative of a result of a diagnosis of the robot based on the state information. 14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising the steps of sending to the owner of the robot via the telecommunication line a list of service personnel capable of a repair according to the diagnosis result. 15. The method according to claim 10 further comprising the steps of transmitting information indicative of a sending date; and sending to the owner of the robot a greeting card on a predetermined date determined by the sending date. 16. A robot device which acts autonomously based on an external and/or an internal factor and comprising: means for transmitting to a remote location via a telecommunication channel robotic related information indicative of the robot device; and means for receiving from the remote location via a telecommunication channel answer information based on said transmitted robotic related information and reference information stored at said remote location. 17. The robot device of claim 16 which exhibits a growth level that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor, and wherein the robot device acts in accordance with the changed growth level; wherein the robotic related information is indicative of the changed growth level of the robot device; and wherein the answer information is indicative of a growth transition of the robot device which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 18. The robot device of claim 16 which exhibits a character that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor, and wherein the robot acts in accordance with the character; wherein the robotic related information is indicative of the character of the robot device; and wherein the answer information is indicative of a character correction of the robot device which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 19. The robot device of claim 16 wherein the robotic related information is state information representing the state of moving parts of the robot device; and the answer information is indicative of a result of a diagnosis of the robot device based on the state information. 20. The robot device of claim 19, further comprising means for receiving from a remote location via the telecommunication channel a list of service personnel capable of a repair according to the diagnosis result. 21. The robot device of claim 16, further comprising means for transmitting to the remote location information indicative of a sending date for receiving a greeting card on a predetermined date determined by the sending date. 22. A server for communicating with at least one robot device located remotely from said server, said robot device acting autonomously based on an external and/or an internal factor, said server comprising: means for receiving from a remote location via a telecommunication channel robotic related information indicative of the robot device; means for storing reference information associated with a respective robot device; and means for transmitting to the remote location via a telecommunication channel answer information based on said received robotic related information and said stored reference information. 23. The server of claim 22 wherein said robot device exhibits a growth level that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor, and wherein the robot acts in accordance with the changed growth level; wherein the robotic related information is indicative of the changed growth level of the robot device; and wherein the answer information is indicative of a growth transition of the robot device which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 24. The server of claim 22 wherein the robot device exhibits a character that is changed according to the external and/or the internal factor, and wherein the robot device acts in accordance with the character; wherein the robotic related information is indicative of the character of the robot device; and wherein the answer information is indicative of a character correction of the robot device which is generated based on the robotic related information and the reference information. 25. The server of claim 22 wherein the robotic related information is state information representing the state of moving parts of the robot device; and the answer information is indicative of a result of a diagnosis of the robot device based on the state information. 26. The server of claim 25, further comprising means for transmitting to a remote location via the telecommunication channel a list of service personnel capable of a repair according to the diagnosis result. 27. The server of claim 22, further comprising means for transmitting to the remote location a greeting card on a predetermined date determined by predetermined information related to the robot device at said remote location. 