The present invention provides a computerized apparatus and method for stripping paint/surface coatings from manufactured components by utilizing ultra-high pressure waterjet technology in conjunction with a method and apparatus for creating and storing, in a database, digitized maps or templates which conform to the shape of a manufactured component. The stored shapes may be retrieved as needed and used to drive a precision ultra-high pressure waterjet nozzle constructed and arranged for removal of the painted finish or surface coating from the desired surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method as practiced on a computer for removing paint/surface coating from the inner and/or outer surfaces of a manufactured component comprising: providing a computer having a structured database containing stored digitized shapes of the surfaces of manufactured components; providing a device for selectively removing one or more layers of paint/surface coating with ultra-high pressure waterjets; said device controlled by said computer; selecting one of said stored digitized shapes to direct said device about said manufactured component surface; and selecting said ultra-high pressure between 25,000 and 60,000 pounds per square inch to remove one or more layers of paint/surface coating; whereby removal of the paint/surface coating via ultra-high pressure water is accomplished. 2. A method as practiced on a computer for removing paint/surface coating from the inner and/or outer surfaces of a manufactured component of claim 1 further comprising: obtaining a digitized image of a surface of a manufactured component by scanning said surface of said manufactured component; downloading said digitized image to said computer; said computer comparing said downloaded image to said stored images and selecting an image from said stored images matching said manufactured component; and directing said device about said manufactured component. 3. A method as practiced on a computer for removing paint/surface coating from the inner and/or outer surfaces of a manufactured component of claim 1 further comprising: rotating said ultra-high pressure waterjets of said device. 4. A method as practiced on a computer for removing paint/surface coating from the inner and/or outer surfaces of a manufactured component of claim 1 further comprising: scanning a manufactured component with a damaged surface and creating a digitized image of said damaged surface to said computer; and downloading said digitized image of said damaged surface to said computer; and directing said device about said damaged surface of said manufactured component. 5. A method as practiced on a computer for removing paint/surface coating from the inner and/or outer surfaces of a manufactured component of claim 4 further comprising: comparing said downloaded digitized image of said damaged surfaces with said stored images; selecting said damaged surface of said downloaded digitized image; and directing said device about said damaged surface. 