A self-piercing type rivet setting system 30 comprises: a rivet swaging assembly 35; a robot 6 which moves the rivet swaging assembly 35 to put it in position relative to a predetermined site on a workpiece to be riveted; a single integrated controller 31 made up by an integration of a controller for controlling a riveting operation of the rivet swaging assembly and a controller for controlling the motion of the robot; and a rivet feeder 9 for automatically feeding a self-piercing type rivet to the rivet swaging assembly. From the integrated controller 31, a interface cable 33 extends to the robot 6 and another interface cable 34 extends to the rivet feeder 9, and the rivet swaging assembly 35 is integrally incorporated into the robot 6.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A riveting system comprising: (a) an articulated robot including at least one robot sensor operable to report position data indicative of the position of at least a portion of the robot; (b) a riveting mechanism including: (i) an electric motor; (ii) a transmission operably driven by the electric motor; (iii) a rivet advancing punch operably moved by the transmission, a self-piercing rivet substantially prevented from contacting the die when joining workplaces, and the transmission including a lead screw and operably transmitting rotary motion of the motor to linear motion for punch; and (iv) a substantially C-shaped frame at least a portion of which is located adjacent the punch; (c) at least one rivet sensor operably sending a signal in response to a riveting characteristic; and (d) a single, integrated controller electrical connected to the robot and the electric motor of the riveting mechanism, the single controller operably controlling movement of the robot and operation of the riveting mechanism, the controller operably receiving the robot position data and synchronizing the operation of the riveting mechanism with the movement of the robot and the controller operably determining if a value sensed by the rivet sensor is within a predetermined range. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the riveting characteristic is riveting force applied by the punch. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the riveting characteristic is rivet length. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the riveting characteristic is workpiece thickness. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising a rivet feeder electrically connected to and controlled by the single controller. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the self-piercing rivet is substantially prevented from completely piecing through all workpieces being joined. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the transmission is located above a horizontal plane extending through the center of an articulation joint of the robot positioned closest to the riveting mechanism, when an elongated centerline of the punch is vertical. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the electric motor is offset from an elongated centerline of the punch. 9. A riveting apparatus comprising: (a) a robot including at least one robot sensor operable to report robot position data indicative of the position of at least a portion of the robot; (b) a riveting machine having an electric motor actuator, drive mechanism, punch, C-frame and die, energization of the actuator operably causing the drive mechanism to advance the punch toward the die, the drive mechanism further comprises a lead screw and the drive mechanism operably transmitting rotary motion of the actuator to linear motion for the punch, the riveting machine being coupled to the robot; (c) an integrated controller connected the robot and the actuator of the riveting machine; and (d) a self-piercing rivet being substantially prevented from contacting the die when joining workpieces; (e) the controller operably causing the robot to move the riveting machine and operably causing the punch to drive the self-piercing rivet relative to the die, (f) the controller operably receiving the robot position data and synchronizing the operation of the riveting machine with the movement of the robot; and (g) the controller operably determining if a sensed value related to riveting characteristic is within a predetermined range. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the riveting characteristic is rivet length. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the riveting characteristic is workpiece thickness. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein a rotational axis of the electric motor is offset from an elongated axis of the punch. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the robot is electrically articulated. 14. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a rivet feeder electrically connected to and controlled by the single controller. 15. A riveting system, comprising: an electrically actuated robot having at least one member movable in a predefined workspace, the robot being adapted to receive robot control commands and being operable to move the member in accordance with the robot control commands; at least one robot sensor operable to report robot position data; a riveting mechanism coupled to the member, wherein the riveting mechanism further comprises an electric motor, a transmission operably driven by the electric motor, a rivet advancing punch operably moved by the transmission, and a die spatially aligned with the punch, the rivet mechanism being operable to drive the punch relative to the die such that a self-piercing rivet is substantially prevented from contacting the die when joining workpieces; at least one riveting sensor associated with the riveting mechanism and being operable to report rivet control data indicative of the operation of the riveting mechanism; a single, integrated controller electrically connected to the riveting mechanism and the robot, the controller being adapted to receive robot control commands and rivet control data and being operable to synchronize the operation of the riveting mechanism with the movement of the robot; a data structure accessible to the integrated controller for storing the robot control commands and the rivet control data; and at least one robot sensor associated with robot being operable to report robot position data indicative of the position of the robot member; the controller being adapted to receive the robot position data and synchronize the operation of the riveting mechanism with the movement of the robot. 16. The riveting system of claim 15 wherein the riveting sensor is further defined as a load sensor operable to report riveting force applied to the punch. 17. The riveting system of claim 15 wherein the riveting sensor is further defined as a position sensor operable to report displacement of the punch. 18. The riveting system of claim 15 wherein the sensor associated with the riveting mechanism is further defined as a feed sensor operable to report rivet feed data indicative of the placement of the rivet adjacent the punch. 19. A fastening apparatus comprising: (a) a robot including at least one robot sensor operable to report robot position data indicative of the position of at least a portion of the robot; (b) a machine having an electric motor actuator, drive mechanism, punch, C-frame and die, energization of the actuator operably causing the drive mechanism to advance the punch toward the die, the drive mechanism further comprises a lead screw and the drive mechanism operably transmitting rotary motion of the actuator to linear motion for the punch, the machine being coupled to the robot; (c) an integrated controller connected to the robot and the actuator of the machine; and (d) a self-piercing fastener being substantially prevented from contacting the die when joining workpieces; (e) the controller operably causing the robot to move the machine and operably causing the punch to drive the self-piercing fastener relative to the die; (f) the controller operably receiving the robot position data and synchronizing the operation of the machine with the movement of the robot; and (g) the controller operably determining if a sensed value related to fastening is within a predetermined range. 