The present invention relates to a horizontally movable and downwardly biased appendage that extends laterally from a surface treating apparatus, such as a robotic floor cleaner. The robotic floor cleaner and/or appendage may use disposable cleaning sheets, such as dust clothes, wipes, sheet-brushes, and the like, to clean under objects or into corners but does not substantially interfere with the rotation of the surface treating apparatus about its axis when it is adjacent to encountered obstacles. The appendage can extend under low hanging obstructions to remove dirt, and reach into corners innavigable or unreachable by the robotic floor cleaner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An appendage that laterally extends from a mobile apparatus for treating a surface, said appendage comprising an elongate flaccid body having a proximal end which remains in fixed relationship relative to said mobile apparatus and a distal end remote therefrom, said body being transitionally movable in the horizontal plane whereby said distal end moves relative to said mobile apparatus and biased downwardly toward the treatment surface causing said body to contact the treatment surface and to collect dust and debris from the treatment surface. 2. An appendage according to claim 1, wherein said body is made of a flexible material. 3. An appendage according to claim 2, wherein said body having a length less than about 15.5 cm. 4. An appendage according to claim 1, wherein said appendage being pivotally attached to said mobile apparatus. 5. An appendage according to claim 1, wherein said first side having a rim disposed along a peripheral edge of said body, said rim extending upwardly from said first side, whereby said rim providing the downwardly bias of said body. 6. An appendage according to claim 1, wherein said appendage having an aspect ratio of at least 4. 7. An appendage that laterally extends from a mobile apparatus for treating a surface, said appendage comprising an elongate body having a proximal end which remains in fixed relationship relative to said mobile apparatus and a distal end remote therefrom including a top face and a bottom face, said body being movable in the horizontal plane whereby said distal end moves relative to the mobile apparatus and biased downwardly toward the surface; at least one sheet holder connector attached to said top face of said body; a compliant pad attached to said bottom face of said body; and a cleaning sheet, whereby said downwardly biased body causing said sheet to come in compliant contact with the surface and collect dust and debris from the surface. 8. An appendage according to claim 7, wherein said top face of said body comprises a rim disposed along a peripheral edge of said body, said rim extending upwardly from said top face, whereby said rim providing the downwardly bias of said body. 9. An appendage according to claim 8, wherein said body is made of a flexible material. 10. An appendage according to claim 8, wherein said appendage being pivotally attached to said apparatus. 11. An appendage according to claim 8, wherein said body is telescoping. 12. An appendage according to claim 8, wherein said body of said appendage is integral to a sheet holder body located under the mobile apparatus. 