A system and method for distributing electrical power to an automated robotic device for transporting media cartridges in a data storage library. The system and method include a power distribution strip having a substantially planar insulating member with opposed first and second sides, and first and second oppositely charged electrical conductors on the opposed first and second sides for providing power to the robotic device. The system and method also include multiple contacts on the robotic device for contacting the first and second conductors. The multiple contacts include a first pair of contacts for contacting the first conductor and a second pair of contacts for contacting the second conductor. At least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintain contact with the first and second conductors, respectively, as the robotic device moves in the library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for holding media cartridges for use in storing data, at least one media drive, and an automated robotic device for transporting cartridges between the plurality of cells and the at least one media drive in the data storage library, a system for distributing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the system comprising: a power distribution strip comprising a substantially planar insulating member having opposed first and second sides, and first and second electrical conductors on the opposed first and second sides, respectively, for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second conductors to be provided with opposite electrical charges; and a plurality of contacts on the automated robotic device for making electrical contact with the first and second conductors, the plurality of contacts comprising a first pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the first conductor and a second pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the second conductor, wherein at least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintain contact with the first and second conductors, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of contacts comprises an electrically conductive brush having a substantially flat surface for contacting a conductor. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein each brush is biased toward a conductor to facilitate maintaining contact therewith. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein each of the first pair of contacts for making contact with the first conductor contact a same portion of the first conductor in succession as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library, and each of the second pair of contacts for making contact with the second conductor contact a same portion of the second conductor in succession as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the automated robotic device has a first end and a second end, each of the first and second pairs of contacts comprises a first contact and a second contact, and the first and second contacts in each of the first and second pairs are provided in a spaced apart relationship where the first contacts of the first and second pairs are located proximate the first end of the automated robotic device and the second contacts of the first and second pairs are located proximate the second end of the automated robotic device. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the power distribution strip comprises a plurality of sections, the plurality of sections to be electrically connected so that the power distribution strip extends substantially throughout the data storage library. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the power distribution strip is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 8. The system of claim 6 wherein the power distribution strip is adapted to be fed electrical power at a plurality of sections in the power distribution strip. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the plurality of electrically connected sections of the power distribution strip have a first end and a second end, and the power distribution strip is adapted to be fed electrical power at both the first and second ends of the plurality of electrically connected sections. 10. The system of claim 6 further comprising a guide rail for supporting the automated robotic device during movement thereof in the data storage library, wherein the guide rail is adapted to support the power distribution strip. 11. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for holding media cartridges for use in storing data, at least one media drive, and an automated robotic device for transporting cartridges between the plurality of cells and the at least one media drive in the data storage library, a method for distributing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the method comprising: providing a power distribution strip comprising a substantially planar insulating member having opposed first and second sides, and first and second electrical conductors on the opposed first and second sides, respectively, for providing electrical power to the automated robotic device, the first and second conductors to be provided with opposite electrical charges; and providing a plurality of contacts on the automated robotic device for making electrical contact with the first and second conductors, the plurality of contacts comprising a first pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the first conductor and a second pair of contacts for making electrical contact with the second conductor, wherein at least one of the first pair of contacts and at least one of the second pair of contacts maintain contact with the first and second conductors, respectively, as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein each of the plurality of contacts comprises an electrically conductive brush having a substantially flat surface for contacting a conductor. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein each brush is biased toward a conductor to facilitate maintaining contact therewith. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein each of the first pair of contacts for making contact with the first conductor contact a same portion of the first conductor in succession as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library, and each of the second pair of contacts for making contact with the second conductor contact a same portion of the second conductor in succession as the automated robotic device moves in the data storage library. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the automated robotic device has a first end and a second end, each of the first and second pairs of contacts comprises a first contact and a second contact, and the first and second contacts in each of the first and second pairs are provided in a spaced apart relationship where the first contacts of the first and second pairs are located proximate the first end of the automated robotic device and the second contacts of the first and second pairs are located proximate the second end of the automated robotic device. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the power distribution strip comprises a plurality of sections, the plurality of sections to be electrically connected so that the power distribution strip extends substantially throughout the data storage library. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the power distribution strip is adapted for use in communicating signals between the automated robotic device and a controller. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the power distribution strip is adapted to be fed electrical power at a plurality of sections in the power distribution strip. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the plurality of electrically connected sections of the power distribution strip have a first end and a second end, and the power distribution strip is adapted to be fed electrical power at both the first and second ends of the plurality of electrically connected sections. 20. The method of claim 16 further comprising a guide rail for supporting the automated robotic device during movement thereof in the data storage library, wherein the guide rail is adapted to support the power distribution strip. 