A force feedback interface device is coupled to a host computer that displays a graphical environment, the device including a user manipulatable object physically contacted and moveable by a user. A sensor detects a position of the user object and provides a sensor signal to the host computer, where the sensor signal includes information representative of the position of the user object. An actuator is coupled to the device or user object and outputs a force on the user manipulatable object or a housing of the device. The actuator includes a magnet and a grounded coil, where the magnet moves approximately within a plane with respect to the coil, and wherein a current is provided in the coil to generate the force. Other embodiments provide a magnet that moves in a linear degree of freedom within a coil housing, or provide an at least partially spherical magnet providing rotary degrees of freedom to a user manipulatable object coupled to the magnet. One embodiment includes a planar frame support mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A force feedback interface device in communication with a host computer, said host computer displaying a graphical environment, said force feedback interface device comprising: a user manipulatable object physically contacted by a user and moveable in a degree of freedom; at least one sensor operative to detect a position of said user manipulatable object in said degree of freedom and provide a sensor signal to said host computer, said sensor signal including information representative of said position; and an actuator coupled to said force feedback device which operative to output a force transmitted to said user, said force correlated with an event or interaction within said graphical environment, wherein said actuator includes a magnet and a grounded coil, said magnet moving approximately within a plane with respect to said coil, said coil lying in a plane substantially parallel to the plane of said magnet and wherein a current is provided in said coil to generate said force. 2. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said actuator is coupled to said user manipulatable object and transmits force to said user manipulatable object. 3. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a device microprocessor local to said interface device and separate from said host computer, said local microprocessor providing a signal to said actuator to output said force, wherein said local microprocessor receives host commands from said host computer, said host commands causing said force to be output. 4. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 3 wherein said device microprocessor parses said host commands received from said host computer. 5. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a support mechanism coupled between said user manipulatable object and said actuator. 6. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 5 wherein said support mechanism includes a five-bar linkage, wherein said degree of freedom is a rotary degree of freedom. 7. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 5 wherein said support mechanism includes at least one joint member provided between each actuator and said user manipulatable object, wherein said user manipulatable object moves in two linear degrees of freedom. 8. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 7 wherein said joint member is flexible. 9. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 5 wherein said support mechanism includes a frame and wherein said user manipulatable object moves in a linear degree of freedom. 10. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 9 wherein said actuator is a first actuator and further comprising a second actuator coupled to said user manipulatable object and outputs a force in a second linear degree of freedom of said user manipulatable object, said first and second degrees of freedom forming a plane. 11. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 10 wherein said frame includes a plurality of bearings positioned between said frame and a ground surface. 12. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said magnet moves rotationally in said plane about an axis of rotation extending out of said plane. 13. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 12 wherein said grounded coil is wrapped about an axis that is approximately parallel to said axis of rotation of said magnet. 14. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said sensor is an optical sensor. 15. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said degree of freedom is a linear degree of freedom. 16. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said degree of freedom is a rotary degree of freedom. 17. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said user manipulatable object is a joystick handle or a mouse. 18. A force feedback interface device in communication with a host computer, said host computer displaying a graphical environment, said force feedback interface device comprising: a user manipulatable object physically contacted by a user and moveable in two planar degrees of freedom; at least one sensor operative to detect a position of said user manipulatable object in said planar degrees of freedom and provide a sensor signal to said host computer, said sensor signal including information representative of said position; a plurality of actuators coupled to said user manipulatable object, each of said actuators operative to output a force on said user manipulatable object, said forces correlated with an event or interaction within said graphical environment, wherein said actuators each include a magnet and a grounded coil, said magnet moving approximately within a plane with respect to said coil, wherein a current is provided in each of said coils to generate said forces; and a frame coupling said user manipulatable object to said plurality of actuators, said frame moveable in said two planar degrees of freedom. 19. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 18 further comprising a plurality of bearings positioned between said frame and a ground surface. 20. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 19 wherein each of said bearings provide motion in both of said degrees of freedom. 21. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 19 wherein each of said bearings includes a ball that is positioned between an indentation in said frame and an indentation in said ground surface and which rolls to provide motion of said frame in said degrees of freedom. 22. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 18 wherein said magnet of each of said actuators is coupled to said frame and wherein said coil is wrapped around a projection coupled to a grounded surface, wherein said coil is wrapped approximately about an axis extending perpendicularly to said plane formed by said degrees of freedom. 23. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 18 wherein said plurality of actuators includes four actuators, each of said four actuators positioned approximately in a mid portion of each side of said frame, said frame having an approximately rectangular shape. 24. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 23 further comprising an anti-rotation mechanism coupled to said frame and reducing a tendency of said frame to rotate during motion of said frame. 25. A force feedback interface device as recited in claim 18 wherein said sensor includes an emitter and a detector positioned on one side of said frame, wherein said frame includes a plurality of markings which allow motion of said frame to be sensed based on a beam of energy emitted from said emitter, directed at said markings, and detected by said detector. 26. A method for providing force feedback to a user of an interface device, said interface device in communication with a host computer displaying a graphical environment, the method comprising: sensing a position of a user manipulatable object in a degree of freedom and providing sensor signals indicative of said position, data describing said position being received by said host computer to update said graphical environment; and providing a force on said user manipulatable object using a moving magnet actuator based on commands from said host computer, wherein said actuator includes a magnet that is moved approximately within a plane with respect to a grounded coil, wherein a current is provided in said coil to generate said force. 27. A method as recited in claim 26 wherein a device microprocessor local to said interface device and separate from said host computer provides a signal to said actuator to output said force, wherein said local microprocessor receives and parses host commands from said host computer, said host commands causing said force to be output. 28. A method as recited in claim 26 wherein said magnet is rotated about an axis of rotation in a plane parallel to a plane in which said grounded coil is approximately located, said axis of rotation being approximately parallel to an axis about which said grounded coil is approximately wrapped. 29. A method as recited in claim 26 wherein said magnet is moved linearly with respect to said grounded coil. 