The invention provides improved methods and apparatus for control using field and control devices that provide a virtual machine environment and that communicate via an IP network. By way of non-limiting example, such field device can be an "intelligent" transmitter or actuator that includes a low power processor, along with a random access memory, a read-only memory, FlashRAM, and a sensor interface. The processor can execute a real-time operating system, as well as a Java virtual machine (JVM). Java byte code executes in the JVM to configure the field device to perform typical process control functions, e.g., for proportional integral derivative (PID) control and signal conditioning. Control networks can include a plurality of such field and control devices interconnected by an IP network, such as an Ethernet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control device for a control system, wherein the control device provides a virtual machine environment and executes byte code therein, the byte code configuring the control device to execute a control algorithm that is embodied in the byte code, wherein the control algorithm at least one of (i) maintains the control system at a desired level, and (ii) drives it to that level, as a function of one or more measured values and one or more setpoints, and the control device comprises a web server that facilitates any of configuration, monitoring and maintenance of the control system or one or more other control devices. 2. The control device of claim 1, wherein the byte code configures the control device to perform a proportional integral derivative control algorithm that is embodied in the byte code. 3. The control device as in any one of claims 1-2 wherein the control device comprises any of a control station, operator console, personal computer, handhold computer, workstation, integrator, transmitter, sensor device, or positioner or other actuator device. 4. The control device as in any one of claims 1-2, wherein the byte code comprises JAVA byte code. 5. The control device of claim 1, wherein the control algorithm implements any of a continuous, ladder logic, or batch process control strategy. 6. The control device of claim 5, wherein any of the web server and the virtual machine environment are embedded. 7. The control device of claim 5, wherein the control device comprises at least one of a random access memory, a read-only memory, FlashRAM, and a sensor interface. 