A material storage and delivery system includes an individual container storage and delivery system (ICSDS). A palletizer is provided for placing containers from the ICSDS on a pallet. A layer storage and delivery system (LSDS) places full layers of containers on a pallet. A robotic container delivery system (RCDS) places individual containers on a pallet. A conveyor system conveys containers and pallets between at least two of the ICSDS, the palletizer, the LSDS and the RCDS. A method for storing and delivering containers is also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A container storage and delivery system, comprising: an individual container storage and delivery system; a palletizer for forming a group of containers from said individual container storage and delivery system into a layer or a partial layer, and placing this layer or partial layer onto a pallet; a layer storage and delivery system for taking full layers from a storage location and placing said full layers of containers onto a pallet; a robotic container delivery system for placing individual containers onto a pallet, said robotic container delivery system being capable of placing individual containers onto a pallet in incomplete layers and at specific locations on said pallet; a conveyor system for conveying containers and pallets bearing containers between at least two of said individual container storage and delivery system, said palletizer, said layer storage and delivery system, and said robotic container delivery system. 2. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, wherein said individual container storage and delivery system is a vertically accumulating storage and retrieval apparatus. 3. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, wherein said layer storage and delivery system is adapted to receive pallets from said palletizer and place layers onto said pallets. 4. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, wherein said layers delivered by said layer storage and delivery system are homogeneous SKU layers. 5. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, further comprising a depalletizing system for delivering containers to said individual container storage and delivery system. 6. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, wherein said robotic container delivery system places heterogeneous package type containers on a pallet. 7. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, wherein said robotic container delivery system places incomplete layers of containers on a pallet. 8. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, wherein said layer storage and delivery system comprises a full layer storage system for storing full layers of containers, and a gantry for taking full layers of containers and placing said full layers onto a pallet to be delivered. 9. The material storage and delivery system of claim 8, wherein said layer storage and delivery system comprises a pallet magazine for delivering empty pallets to a position for receiving said full layers. 10. The material storage and delivery system of claim 1, further comprising a control system for delivering containers from said individual container storage and delivery system to said palletizer, for sending pallets from said palletizer to at least one of said layer storage and delivery system and said robotic container delivery system, and for sending pallets from said layer storage and delivery system to said robotic container delivery system. 11. The material storage and delivery system of claim 10, wherein said control system receives inventory data and order data, said inventory data comprising container position data for containers in said individual container storage and delivery system, said layer storage and delivery system, and said robotic container delivery system. 12. The material storage and delivery system of claim 11, wherein said control system directs said pallet having homogeneous SKU layers of containers from said layer storage and delivery system to said robotic container delivery system, and causes said robotic container delivery system to place containers on said pallet. 13. The material storage and delivery system of claim 11, wherein said control system determines at least one pallet configuration from said order data, said pallet configuration comprising the number of homogeneous SKU layers of containers to be placed on said pallet. 14. The material storage and delivery system of claim 13, wherein said control system, if said number of homogeneous SKU layers to be placed on said pallet exceeds a predetermined threshold, and if said number of homogeneous SKU layers can be obtained from said layer storage and delivery system, directs said layer storage and delivery system to place said layers on a pallet. 15. The material storage and delivery system of claim 14, wherein said control system directs pallets from said palletizer to said robotic container delivery system and causes said robotic container delivery system to place containers on said pallet. 16. The material storage and delivery system of claim 13, wherein said control system, if said number of homogeneous SKU layers of containers does not exceed a predetermined threshold, and if there is at lest one homogeneous package type layer that is necessary, causes said individual container storage and delivery system to deliver an equivalent number of said containers to said palletizer and directs said palletizer to place said homogeneous package type containers onto a pallet. 17. The material storage and delivery system of claim 13, wherein said control system determines if heterogeneous package type containers are to be placed onto said pallet and, if so, directs said containers to be sent to said robotic container delivery system. 18. The material storage and delivery system of claim 13, wherein said control system determines the number of homogeneous SKU full layers of containers and, if said number is above a predetermined threshold, directs said layer storage and delivery system to place said homogeneous SKU full layers on said pallet. 19. The material storage and delivery system of claim 13, wherein said control system directs said pallet from said layer storage and delivery system to said robotic container delivery system and causes said robotic container delivery system to place containers on said pallet. 20. A container storage and delivery system, comprising: a fully automated individual container storage and delivery system; a semi-automated individual container storage and delivery system, comprising a manual loading station in which containers are placed manually into an upper portion of said individual container storage and delivery system; said fully automated individual container storage and delivery system and said semi-automated container storage and delivery system being vertically accumulating; a palletizer for placing containers from said fully automated container storage and delivery system and from said semi-automated individual container storage and delivery system; and, a conveyor system for transporting said containers from said fully automated individual container storage and delivery system and said semi-automated container storage and delivery system to said palletizer. 