Embodiments of the present invention provide structures for reducing erosion of a slit valve utilized in the fabrication of semiconductor devices. Specifically, non-metallic slit valve components such as a compressible sealing member and a barrier that assist in sealing the valve closure against the slit valve seat, are positioned on the valve seat rather than on the valve closure. This orientation removes the seal and the seal barrier from the direct line of sight of the plasma within the processing chamber, reducing exposure of the sealing member and seal barrier slit valve components to erosion and thereby extending the lifetime of the valve.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A slit valve comprising: a valve seat defining an aperture in a wall of a processing chamber, wherein the aperture is sized so that a semiconductor wafer can be transferred therethrough; a sealing face of the valve seat inclined at an angle relative to a plane of a major axis of the aperture; and a compressible sealing member positioned on the sealing face for engaging a moveable closure. 2. The slit valve of claim 1 wherein the compressible sealing member comprises an O-ring positioned around the aperture. 3. The slit valve of claim 1 wherein the compressible sealing member is formed from an elastomer material. 4. The slit valve of claim 1 wherein: the sealing member is composed of a material selected from the group consisting of CHEMRAZ.RTM. E-38, 513, and 520 materials, and KALREZ.RTM. Sahara 8575, 8475, 8375, 8385, and KALREZ.RTM. 4079 materials; and the barrier is composed of a material selected from the group consisting of TEFLON.RTM. and VESPEL.RTM.. 5. A semiconductor processing apparatus comprising: a processing chamber defined by side walls, a top wall, and a bottom wall; a wafer support housed within the processing chamber; a process gas inlet port in communication with the processing chamber and with a processing gas source; a slit valve comprising, a valve seat defining an aperture in one wall of the processing chamber, wherein the aperture is sized so that a semiconductor wafer can be transferred therethrough, a sealing face of the valve seat inclined at an angle relative to a plane of a major axis of the aperture, and a compressible sealing member positioned on the sealing face; and a closure moveable against the compressible sealing member to selectively seal and unseal the aperture. 6. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 5 wherein the compressible sealing member comprises an O-ring positioned around the aperture. 7. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 5 wherein the compressible sealing member is formed from an elastomer material. 8. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 5 wherein: the sealing member is composed of a material selected from the group consisting of CHEMRAZ.RTM. E-38, 513, and 520 materials, and KALREZ.RTM. Sahara 8575, 8475, 8375, 8385, and KALREZ.RTM. 4079 materials; and the barrier is composed of a material selected from the group consisting of TEFLON.RTM. and VESPEL.RTM.. 9. A semiconductor processing apparatus comprising: a load lock chamber for receiving a semiconductor wafer; a processing chamber defined by side walls, a top wall, and a bottom wall; a wafer support housed within the processing chamber; a slit valve comprising, a valve seat defining an aperture in one wall of the processing chamber, wherein the aperture is sized so that a semiconductor wafer can be transferred therethrough, a sealing face of the valve seat inclined at an angle relative to a plane of a major axis of the aperture, and a compressible sealing member positioned on the sealing face; a closure moveable against the compressible sealing member to selectively seal and unseal the aperture; and a central transfer chamber housing a robot configured to transfer the wafer from the load lock chamber to the wafer support through the slit valve. 10. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 9 wherein the compressible sealing member comprises an O-ring positioned around the aperture. 11. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 9 wherein the compressible sealing member is formed from an elastomer material. 12. The semiconductor processing apparatus of claim 9 wherein: the sealing member is composed of a material selected from the group consisting of CHEMRAZ.RTM. E-38, 513, and 520 materials, and KALREZ.RTM. Sahara 8575, 8475, 8375, 8385, and KALREZ.RTM. 4079 materials; and the barrier is composed of a material selected from the group consisting of TEFLON.RTM. and VESPEL.RTM.. 