A data cartridge to caddy referencing system for a data cartridge handling mechanism within an autochanger. The referencing system provides X, Y and Z referencing for the data cartridge handling mechanism or the picker of the autochanger as it tries to insert a data cartridge into the data cartridge caddy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data cartridge-to-caddy referencing system that enables a data cartridge handling mechanism within an autochanger to insert a data cartridge into a data cartridge caddy in a storage rack in said autochanger, said data cartridge-to-caddy referencing system comprising: Z referencing means on a sleeve attached to said autochanger storage rack, providing preliminary, intermediate and final Z direction referencing between said data cartridge and said data cartridge caddy during installation of said data cartridge into said data cartridge caddy by said data cartridge handling mechanism of said autochanger, wherein said Z referencing means is a mechanical limit physically attached to said sleeve; Y referencing means on said sleeve attached to said autochanger storage rack, providing preliminary, intermediate and final Y direction referencing between said data cartridge and said data cartridge caddy during installation of said data cartridge into said data cartridge caddy by said data cartridge handling mechanism of said autochanger, wherein said Y referencing means is a mechanical limit physically attached to said sleeve; and means within said data cartridge caddy for providing final X direction referencing between said data cartridge and said data cartridge caddy during installation of said data cartridge into said data cartridge caddy by said data cartridge handling mechanism of said autochanger. 2. The data cartridge-to-caddy referencing system according to claim 1, wherein said Z referencing means on said sleeve attached to said autochanger storage rack comprises at least one tab attached to said sleeve. 3. The data cartridge-to-caddy referencing system according to claim 2, wherein said Z referencing tab comprises a tapered tab. 4. The data cartridge-to-caddy referencing system according to claim 1, wherein said Y referencing means on said sleeve attached to said autochanger storage rack comprises at least one tab attached to said sleeve. 5. The data cartridge-to-caddy referencing system according to claim 4, wherein said Y referencing tab comprises a tapered tab. 6. A method of inserting a data cartridge into a data cartridge caddy in a storage rack of an autochanger with a data cartridge handling mechanism operatively associated with said autochanger, said method comprising: providing a sleeve attached to said storage rack; providing a first referencing mechanism on said sleeve; providing a second referencing mechanism on said sleeve; locating said data cartridge caddy adjacent said sleeve; moving said data cartridge in a first direction toward said data cartridge caddy; aligning said data cartridge with said data cartridge caddy in a second direction which is transverse to said first direction by contacting said data cartridge with said first referencing mechanism; aligning said data cartridge with said data cartridge caddy in a third direction which is transverse to said first direction and said second direction by contacting said data cartridge with said second referencing mechanism; and inserting said data cartridge into said data cartridge caddy. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said second direction is normal to said first direction. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said third direction is normal to said first direction and said second direction. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein said contacting said data cartridge with said first referencing mechanism is caused by said moving said cartridge in a first direction. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said contacting said data cartridge with said second referencing mechanism is caused by said moving said cartridge in a first direction. 11. The method of claim 6 wherein said contacting said data cartridge with said first referencing mechanism occurs before said inserting said data cartridge into said data cartridge caddy. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein said contacting said data cartridge with said second referencing mechanism occurs before said inserting said data cartridge into said data cartridge caddy. 13. The method of claim 6 wherein said first referencing mechanism comprises at least one tab attached to said sleeve. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said at least one tab comprises a tapered tab. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein said second referencing mechanism comprises at least one tab attached to said sleeve. 