An apparatus for filling and cleaning channels and inlet ports of a microchip substrate is disclosed. A device of the apparatus comprising an array of tubes is inserted into each of the inlet ports of the microchip. The array of tubes of the device comprises a plurality of pressure tubes, surrounded by a plurality of vacuum tubes. In conjunction with this, pressurized solutions such as matrix or wash are introduced into common openings on the microchip that provide a passage to microchannels of the microchip with the use of pressure tip injectors of the apparatus. As matrix or wash solutions are pumped through the common openings and microchannels of the microchip substrate, wash solutions are pumped through the plurality of pressure tubes and everything is vacuumed through the plurality of vacuum tubes surrounding the plurality of pressure tubes. Various reservoirs of solutions are selected and allowed to flow by proper valve actuation. This process can be performed manually or easily automated by utilizing appropriate valves and control hardware/software.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for filling and cleaning an analytical substrate of the type having microchannels, said microchannels having a plurality of inlet ports and a plurality of anode ports separated by a length of the microchannel, comprising: an arm mounted on the apparatus such that the arm may be raised and lowered; a tube-in-tube assembly having a plurality of tube assembly pressure tubes and a plurality of tube assembly vacuum tubes paired one inside the other; a manifold mounted on said arm upon which said tube-in-tube assembly is mounted, said tube-in-tube assembly allowing a pressurized liquid to be distributed by said manifold into said pressure tubes and a vacuum source to be distributed by said manifold to said vacuum tubes; and an injector mounted on said arm and spaced from said tube-in-tube assembly by a distance substantially corresponding to the length of the microchannel, wherein when said arm is lowered, ends of said pressurized tubes seal over inlet ports on said substrate and said injector also seals over an anode port on said substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the manifold has a first chamber for providing pressurized solutions from a pressurized container to said substrate and a second chamber for vacuuming solution from said substrate with a vacuum source. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first chamber of said manifold is above the second chamber of said manifold. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first chamber of the manifold includes a plurality of first compartments. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said plurality of pressure tubes of said tube-in-tube assembly is inserted into a plurality of openings on a lower surface of said first chamber of the manifold. 6. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said second chamber of the manifold comprises a plurality of second compartments. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said second chamber of the manifold comprises three second compartments. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said second compartments have at least one opening. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising at least one vacuum supply tube connected to a vacuum source and inserted into the openings of said second compartments. 10. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said plurality of pressure tubes of said tube-in-tube assembly are inserted into said plurality of vacuum tubes of said tube-in-tube assembly. 11. An apparatus for filling and cleaning an analytical substrate of the type having microchannels including a plurality of input ports and a plurality of anode ports separated by a length of said microchannels comprising: a container storing a liquid solution; a vacuum source; an arm that may be raised and lowered over a substrate having microchannels and microchannel openings; a manifold mounted on said arm joined to said container and said vacuum source such that said manifold could distribute liquid solution and vacuum from said container and vacuum source, respectively; a tube-in-tube assembly extending from said manifold and comprising a plurality of tube assembly pressure tubes and a plurality of tube assembly vacuum tubes paired one inside the other, wherein lowering of said arm allows tubes in said tube-in-tube assembly to seal over input ports on said substrate allowing solution distribution from said container to inlet ports of said substrate and also allowing solution removal by suction through said tube-in-tube assembly from said substrate inlet ports; and an injector mounted on said arm and spaced from said tube-in-tube assembly by a distance substantially corresponding to the length of the microchannel, wherein lowering said arm brings the injector in pressure communication with the anode ports, wherein said tube-in-tube assembly and said injector allow sealing of both input ports and anode ports when said arm is lowered. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a platform for holding said substrate. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a means for positioning said manifold. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a sensor assembly indicating when the arm has been lowered. 15. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said manifold has a first chamber for providing pressurized solutions from said container to said substrate and a second chamber for vacuuming solution from said substrate with said vacuum source. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising first and second compartments within respective first and second chambers and a separate control associated with said first and second compartments. 17. The apparatus of claim 11 further including a means for automated operation of said apparatus. 18. An apparatus for filling and cleaning an analytical substrate of the type having microchannels including a plurality of microchannel inlet ports and a plurality of microchannel anode ports, said inlet ports and anode ports separated by a length of said microchannel comprising: a container; a vacuum source; an arm that may be raised or lowered over the substrate; a manifold mounted on the arm in pressure tight fluid communication with said container and vacuum source, wherein solution is provided from the container to said substrate and solution is removed from said substrate with said vacuum source, said manifold having an upper chamber having a plurality of first compartments having a first plurality of openings on a lower surface of each of said plurality of first compartments, and a lower chamber having a plurality of second compartments having a second plurality of openings on a lower surface of said plurality of second compartments, wherein said second plurality of openings on said lower surface of said lower chamber are larger than said first plurality of openings on said lower surface of said upper chamber first compartments, said first plurality of openings being in vertical alignment with said second plurality of openings; a plurality of pressure tubes inserted into first openings of said upper chamber first compartments and in fluid communication with said container through said manifold; a plurality of vacuum tubes inserted into said second openings of said lower chamber second compartments and in vacuum communication with said vacuum source through said manifold, wherein said pressure tubes extend through said vacuum tubes; an assembly for fluidic and pressure communication with said first and second compartments of said upper and lower chambers of said manifold and inlet ports of said substrate wherein said assembly allows for simultaneous distribution and suction of fluid to and from said substrate and said upper and lower chamber of said manifold; and an injector mounted on said arm and spaced from said tube-in-tube assembly by a distance substantially corresponding to the length of the microchannel such that when said arm is lowered the injector is in pressure communication with the substrate for injecting a liquid media into the microchannels through the anode ports of said substrate wherein each of said plurality of microchannels is formed on a surface of said substrate and has an inlet port. 