A digital image processing-based system and method for quantitatively processing a plurality of nucleic acid species expressed in a microarray are disclosed. The microarray is a grid of a plurality of sub-grids of the nucleic acid species. The system includes a scanner that has a digital scanning sensor that scans the microarray and transmits from an output a digital image of the microarray, and a processor that receives the digital image of the microarray from the scanner and then processes the digital image, identifying each of the microarray's sub-grids. The processor then detects in each of the sub-grids a center-representing pixel of a signal of a chemical material and an approximate radius of the signal. Then, the processor segments the signal and calculates a characterizing measure for the segmented signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals, the array being a grid of a plurality of sub-grids of the chemical materials, said system comprising: a memory storing a digital image of the array; and a processor for accessing the digital image from said memory, identifying each of the plurality of sub-grids in the digital image, detecting in each of the plurality of sub-grids a center-representing pixel of a signal of a chemical material and an approximate radius of the signal, segmenting the signal, and calculating a characterizing measure for the segmented signal. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a scanner for scanning the array and outputting the digital image of the array into said memory. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising an arrayer for depositing the chemical materials on a slide to form the array. 4. The system of claim 1, said processor detecting and measuring signals associated with the chemical materials in each sub-grid of the array. 5. The system of claim 1, said processor determining a level of confidence in the characterizing measure for the segmented signal. 6. The system of claim 1, the chemical materials being nucleic acid species and the array of signals being a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 7. A method of assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals in a digital image, comprising the steps of: (a) identifying each of a plurality of sub-grids in the digital image; (b) detecting in each of the plurality of sub-grids a center-representing pixel of a signal of a chemical material and an approximate radius of the signal; (c) segmenting the signal; and (d) calculating a characterizing measure for the segmented signal. 8. The method of claim 7, the array of signals of the chemical materials being a microarray of expressed nucleic acid species, the method further comprising steps, prior to step (a), of: (a) depositing in a configuration of the microarray a plurality of nucleic acid species on a slide, (b) hybridizing to the microarray with multiple fluorescently labeled nucleic acids, and (c) generating a digital image of the microarray. 9. The method of claim 7 further comprising the step of determining a level of confidence in the characterizing measure for the segmented signal. 10. The method of claim 7, the chemical materials being nucleic acid species and the array of signals being a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 11. A computer readable medium having stored therein one or more sequences of instructions for assessing chemical materials manifested as an array of signals in a digital image, said one or more sequences of instructions causing one or more processors to perform a plurality of acts, said acts comprising: (a) identifying each of the plurality of sub-grids in the digital image; (b) detecting in each of the plurality of sub-grids a center-representing pixel of a signal of a chemical material and an approximate radius of the signal; (c) segmenting the signal; and (d) calculating a characterizing measure for the segmented signal. 12. The computer readable medium of claim 11, said acts further comprising the step of determining a level of confidence in the characterizing measure for the segmented signal. 13. The computer readable medium of claim 11, the chemical materials being nucleic acid species and the array of signals being a microarray of signals associated with the nucleic acid species. 