An automated dispensing system and method for dispensing a viscous liquid material along an imperfect dispensing path. In a first scan, a scanning apparatus determines a dispensing path. A dispensing apparatus dispenses the viscous liquid material along the dispensing path. In a second scan, the scanning apparatus measures a dimension of the dispensed material. Object not meeting an acceptable liquid height are rejected.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: a. a scanning apparatus for automatically mapping a contour profile of a non-repeatable surface of an object; b. said scanning apparatus comprised of at least one displacment sensor; c. said scanning apparatus comprised of a motion system wherein said displacement sensor traverses said non-repeatable surface of an object in a direction substatially perpendicular to said displacement sensor's direction of measurement; d. a data acquisition means for recording a series of said displacement sensor measurements wherein each successive diplacement sensor measurement correlates to an interval of said motion system movement, whereby said contour profile is obtained; e. a computer processing system that analyzes said contour profile to determine a substrate configuration or location; f. said computer processing system that further determines a dispensing path based on said substrate configuration or location; and g. a dispensing apparatus for dispensing a material onto the object along said dispensing path. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a robotic motion apparatus. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the robotic motion apparatus is selected from the group consisting of: an arm robot and an n-axis motion machine, wherein n is an integer greater than 1. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor is a laser displacement sensor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a calibration apparatus for determining an offset distance between each displacement sensor and a material dispensing nozzle of the dispensing apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, further including a robotic controller. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the robotic controller further includes a display apparatus for displaying a set of output data. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the display apparatus includes a touch sensitive screen allowing an operator to input a set of requests to the robotic controller. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the robotic controller includes a keyboard for an operator to input a set of requests to the robotic controller. 10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the robotic controller includes an emergency stop control for stopping the scanning apparatus and the dispensing apparatus. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the object dispensed on is a radiator end tank. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the material is dispensed as a bead along at least one rail of the radiator end tank. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the dispensed material is a viscous material. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the viscous material is a liquid silicone rubber. 15. An apparatus comprising: a. a scanning apparatus for determining the configuration or location of an object; b. said scanning apparatus comprised of one or more displacement sensors; c. a motion means for moving said displacment sensor in relation to said object in a direction substantially perpendicular to said displacement sensor's direction of measurement; d. a recording means to record a succession of said displacement sensor measurements, wherein the interval between each successive measurement correlates to an interval of said motion means; e. an analysis means for analyzing said recording wherein said object's configuration or location is determined; f. a computational means for creating a motion path based on said object's configuration or location; g. a communication means for communicating said motion path derived from said computational means to a dispensing apparatus; h. a dispensing apparatus that acts on said motion path and dispenses a material onto said object. 