A break away barrier utilizes first and second spaced apart upstanding posts positioned a predetermined safe distance away from the outer movement limit of a robot. A pair of barrier assemblies are hinged to the first and second spaced apart upstanding posts and are hinged for movement from a closed position inside the safe distance to an open position outside the safe distance. A break away latch permits the opening and separation of the first and second barriers in response to a predetermined force.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A breakaway barrier for use with a work station mounted on a support surface and comprising a work piece support for holding a work piece, and a robot mounted in a position to engage and perform work upon the work piece while the work piece is on the work piece support, the robot having an outer movement limit that defines the range of movement capability of the robot; the breakaway barrier comprising; first and second spaced apart upstanding posts positioned a predetermined safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot; a first barrier assembly and a second barrier assembly, each comprising one or more door panels; the first and second barrier assemblies being hinged to the first and second posts, respectively, for hinged movement from a closed position wherein the first and second barrier assemblies are a closed distance less than said safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot to an open position wherein both said first and second barriers are free from engagement with one another and are an open distance greater than the safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot; a breakaway latch assembly holding the first and second barriers together when in the closed position, the latch assembly being responsive to a predetermined opening force urging the first and second barriers apart to break away and permit the first and second barriers to separate and move to the safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot. 2. A breakaway barrier according to claim 1 wherein the latch assembly comprises first and second latch members on the first and second barrier assemblies, respectively, and means detachably holding the first and second latch members together. 3. A breakaway barrier according to claim 2 wherein the means comprises a detent. 4. A breakaway barrier according to claim 1 wherein the first and second barriers comprise only one door panel each. 5. A breakaway barrier according to claim 1 wherein the first and second barriers each comprise more than one door panel, each of the door panels within the first and second barriers being hinged to one another. 6. In combination: a support surface; a robotic tool on the support surface and having a range of movement including an outer movement limit; first and second spaced apart upstanding posts positioned a predetermined safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot; a first barrier assembly and a second barrier assembly, each comprising one or more door panels; the first and second barrier assemblies being hinged to the first and second posts, respectively, for hinged movement from a closed position wherein the first and second barrier assemblies are a closed distance less than said safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot to an open position wherein both said first and second barriers are free from engagement with one another and are an open distance greater than the safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot; a breakaway latch assembly holding the first and second barriers together when in the closed position, the latch assembly being responsive to a predetermined opening force urging the first and second barriers apart to break away and permit the first and second barriers to separate and move to the safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot. 7. A method for making a barrier around a robotic tool on a support surface, the robotic tool having a range of movement that defines an outer movement limit, the method comprising: positioning first and second posts in spaced apart relation to one another and a predetermined safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robotic tool; mounting first and second barrier assemblies to the first and second posts respectively for hinged movement from a closed position wherein the first and second barrier assemblies are a closed distance less than the safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robotic tool, to an open position wherein both of the first and second barrier assemblies are free from engagement with one another and are an open distance greater than the safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robotic tool; using a breakaway latch assembly to hold the first and second barriers together when in the closed position; breaking away the latch assembly in response to a predetermined opening force urging the first and second barriers away from the robotic tool so as to permit the first and second barriers to separate and move to the safe distance away from the outer movement limit of the robot. 