A remote plasma cleaning system includes a high conductance delivery line that delivers activated species from a remote plasma generator to a processing chamber. The delivery line preferably has a conductance of greater than 40 liters per second, enabling the power levels of the remote plasma generator to be maintained at less than about 3 kW. In one embodiment, activated species may be introduced into the processing chamber via one or more inlet ports disposed in a side portion of the processing chamber. In another embodiment, a coaxial inject/exhaust assembly enables activated species to be introduced into the processing chamber via an inner tube and gases to be exhausted from the processing chamber via an outer tube. Other embodiments incorporate an compound valve in the delivery system for selectively isolating the RPC chamber from the processing chamber and an optical baffle for protecting sensitive components of the isolation valve from exposure to ion bombardment and plasma radiation. The processing chamber may also include flow channels that enable activated species to clean cavities and components located underneath the susceptor, such as lift pin assemblies. Endpoint detection of the remote plasma clean may be performed by igniting a second low-power plasma in the processing chamber from activated species generated by the remote plasma generator, and monitoring emission lines (or ratios thereof) from the second plasma using an optical detector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; and a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; wherein the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber comprises an opening formed in a sidewall of the processing chamber; wherein the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber includes a viewport formed therein for enabling a user to view the interior of the processing chamber. 2. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; and a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; wherein the processing chamber comprises a first processing station for processing a first substrate and a second processing station for processing a second substrate. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber comprises a first input port spatially separated from a second input port, the first input port supplying activated species to the first processing station, and the second input port supplying activated species to the second processing station. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber comprises a third input port spatially separated from a fourth input port, the third input port supplying process gases to the first processing station, and the fourth input port supplying process gases to the second processing station. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the processing chamber includes an exhaust port disposed between the third input port and the fourth input port for exhausting gases from the processing chamber. 6. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; and a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; wherein the processing chamber further includes an exhaust system; and wherein the at least one input port for introducing process gases is coupled to the exhaust system to periodically reverse gas flow direction to draw activated species through the input port for introducing process gases and out of the processing chamber. 7. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; and a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; wherein the delivery system comprises an inner tube of a coaxial inject/exhaust assembly. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the coaxial inject/exhaust assembly is located in a central portion of the processing chamber. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the processing chamber includes a plurality of exhaust ports disposed around a peripheral portion of the processing chamber. 10. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; and a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; and a susceptor support plate for supporting a susceptor; and wherein each of the plurality of exhaust ports are coupled to a flow channel formed in the susceptor support plate, the flow channels directing exhaust gases toward a central portion of the processing chamber and then toward an outer tube of a coaxial inject/exhaust assembly. 11. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; and a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; wherein the delivery system further includes an optical baffle disposed within a portion of the delivery system adjacent to the chamber, the optical baffle configured to substantially block line-of-sight exposure of downstream components of the delivery system from the chamber. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the optical baffle is disposed within an output tube of the delivery system. 13. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; and a substrate transport chamber separated from the processing chamber via a door, the door to the substrate transport chamber configured to periodically open to allow activated species to clean the substrate transport chamber. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising one or more substrate vacuum loadlocks separated from the substrate transport chamber via a door, the doors to the loadlocks configured to periodically open to allow activated species to clean the loadlocks. 15. A system for performing a remote plasma clean, the system comprising: a chamber configured to generate activated species; a processing chamber for processing substrates, the processing chamber located remotely from the chamber; the processing chamber including at least one input port for introducing process gases into the processing chamber for processing substrates, and at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber for cleaning the processing chamber; a delivery system coupled to the chamber and coupled to the at least one input port for introducing activated species into the processing chamber; and a substrate transport chamber positioned adjacent to the processing chamber, wherein the delivery system is configured to provide activated species from the chamber to the transport chamber for cleaning the transport chamber. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising one ore more substrate vacuum loadlocks connected to the substrate transport chamber, wherein the delivery system is configured to provide activated species from the chamber to the loadlocks for cleaning the loadlocks. 