An improved robot arrangement for performing predetermined tasks, such as paint finishing, features equipping a robot with a plurality of manipulatable arms, with at least two of the arms performing like operations. Alternatively, a plurality of commonly controlled manipulator arms may be provided by clustering a plurality of conventional single arm robots on a common mounting stand.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a paint finishing booth having a paint application zone, an arrangement of paint application robots comprising: a robot cluster comprising a plurality of commonly controlled robots, each equipped with a single manipulator arm and each mounted to a different surface of a common mounting stand having at least first and second nonparallel mounting surfaces with a first robot having a first manipulator arm mounted to the first mounting surface and a second robot having a second manipulator arm mounted to the second mounting surface, and each arm equipped with at least a paint application device and positioned within the paint application zone for applying paint at a first side of a workpiece being transported through the application zone. 2. The arrangement of claim 1 wherein the first and second arms have different respective lengths. 3. In a paint finishing booth having a paint application zone, an arrangement of paint application robots comprising: a robot cluster comprising a plurality of commonly controlled robots, each equipped with a single manipulator arm and each mounted to a different surface of a common mounting stand having first and second substantially oppositely facing mounting surfaces with a first robot having a first manipulator arm mounted to the first mounting surface and a second robot having a second manipulator arm mounted to the second mounting surface, and each arm equipped with at least a paint application device and positioned within the paint application zone for applying paint at a first side of a workpiece being transported through the application zone. 4. The arrangement of claim 3 wherein the first and second arms have different respective lengths. 5. In a robotic system for performing predetermined operations under direction of a controller, the system comprising: clustering a plurality of single manipulator arm robots such that each of the plurality is coupled to a common mounting stand having first and second nonparallel mounting surfaces, with a first robot having a first manipulator arm mounted to the first mounting surface and a second robot having a second manipulator arm mounted to the second mounting surface and with at least two of the plurality of arms performing like operations. 6. The improvement of claim 5 wherein the first and second arms have different respective lengths. 7. In a robotic system for performing predetermined operations under direction of a controller, the system comprising: clustering a plurality of single manipulator arm robots such that each of the plurality is coupled to a common mounting stand having first and second oppositely facing mounting surfaces with a first robot having a first manipulator arm mounted to the first mounting surface and a second robot having a second manipulator arm mounted to the second mounting surface and with at least two of the plurality of arms performing like operations. 8. The improvement of claim 7 wherein the first and second arms have different respective lengths. 