This invention provides receptor peptides that have a high affinity for STAT4 and STAT6 polypeptides. Also provided are assays that are useful for identifying compounds that modulate the interaction between STAT4 and STAT6 polypeptides and their respective cellular promoters. The assays are amenable to high throughput screening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of screening for modulators of STAT4 binding to a STAT4 receptor, the method comprising: incubating a reaction mixture comprising a STAT4 polypeptide, a potential binding modulator, and a receptor peptide which comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of: YLPZ.sub.3 (SEQ ID NO:64), wherein Z.sub.3 is selected from the group consisting of Q, H, N, and W; and GYDMPHVL (SEQ ID NO:4); wherein the tyrosine is phosphorylated; and determining whether the binding of the STAT4 polypeptide to the receptor peptide is increased or decreased in comparison to an assay which lacks the potential binding modulator. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor peptide comprises an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of YLPZ.sub.3 N (SEQ ID NO:14) and GYLPZ.sub.3 (SEQ ID NO:15). 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the peptide comprises an amino acid sequence GYLPZ.sub.3 NID (SEQ ID NO:3). 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the amino acid sequence is selected from the group consisting of SHEGYLPQNID (SEQ ID NO:18), SHEGYLPHNID (SEQ ID NO:19), SHEGYLPNNID (SEQ ID NO:20), and SHEGYLPWNID) (SEQ ID NO:21). 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the receptor peptide is immobilized on a solid support. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the binding of the STAT4 polypeptide to the receptor peptide is detected by contacting the STAT4 polypeptide with a detection moiety which binds to the STAT4 polypeptide and comprises a detectable label. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the STAT4 polypeptide is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to incubating the receptor peptide with the STAT4 polypeptide. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the binding of the STAT4 polypeptide to the receptor peptide is detected by contacting the STAT4 polypeptide with a primary antibody which binds to the STAT4 polypeptide, and contacting the primary antibody with a detection moiety which binds to the primary antibody and comprises a detectable label. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the primary antibody is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to incubating the primary antibody with the STAT4 polypeptide. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the STAT4 polypeptide is immobilized on a solid support. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the STAT4 polypeptide is immobilized by noncovalent interaction with the solid support. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the STAT4 polypeptide comprises a polyhistidine sequence and the solid support comprises Ni.sup.2+. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the STAT4 polypeptide comprises a hydrophobic surface and the STAT4 polypeptide is immobilized by hydrophobic interaction. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the STAT4 polypeptide is immobilized by covalent attachment to the solid support. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the receptor peptide is detected by contacting the receptor peptide with a detection moiety which binds to the receptor peptide and comprises a detectable label. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the receptor peptide is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to incubating the receptor peptide with the STAT4 polypeptide. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the receptor peptide comprises a tag to which the detection moiety binds. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the detection moiety comprises an antibody which binds to the receptor peptide. 19. The method wherein the detection moiety binds indirectly to the receptor peptide. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the receptor peptide is contacted with a primary antibody which binds to the receptor peptide, and the primary antibody is contacted with a secondary antibody which comprises the detection moiety. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the primary antibody is preincubated with the detection moiety prior to contacting the primary antibody with the receptor peptide. 