A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24L) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). Cameras (46R and 46L) view workspace (30) from different angles for production of stereoscopic signal outputs at lines (48R and 48L). In response to the camera outputs a 3-dimensional top-to-bottom inverted image (30I) is produced which, is reflected by mirror (66) toward the eyes of operator (18). A virtual image (30V) is produced adjacent control arms (76R and 76L) which is viewed by operator (18) looking in the direction of the control arms. By locating the workspace image (30V) adjacent the control arms (76R and 76L) the operator is provided with a sense that end effectors (40R and 40L) carried by manipulator arms (34R and 34L) and control arms (76R and 76L) are substantially integral. This sense of connection between the control arms (76R and 76L) and end effectors (40R and 40L) provide the operator with the sensation of directly controlling the end effectors by hand. By locating visual display (246) adjacent control arms (244R and 244L) image (240I) of the workspace is directly viewable by the operator. (FIGS. 12 and 13.) Use of the teleoperator system for surgical procedures also is disclosed. (FIGS. 7-9 and FIG. 13.)
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An endoscopic surgical system comprising: a control section and an insertion section, wherein the insertion section is insertable into a patient through an aperture in a body wall to a location adjacent a surgical worksite in the patient; the insertion section comprising an elongate forearm portion having proximal and distal ends and a longitudinal centerline extending between the proximal and distal ends, and an end effector, the end effector coupled to the forearm portion distal end in such a manner as to provide the end effector with at least two degrees of freedom of movement within the patient; the control section comprising an operator control station having a manual controller, and a drive system having plurality of control motors and linkages, the drive system operatively coupled to both the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able to manually move the controller to operate the insertion section in such a manner as at least: to move the forearm portion in at least one degree of freedom relative to a rotational center, wherein the rotational center is generally adjacent to the body wall aperture, and the rotational center is generally adjacent the centerline of to forearm portion, to rotate the forearm portion about the proximal longitudinal centerline of the forearm portion, to move the end effector in at least two degrees of freedom of movement within the patient relative to the forearm portion within the patient's body distal of the body wall during movement, and to manipulate tissue at the surgical site with the end effector. 2. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the drive system is further operatively coupled to the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able to manually move the controller to operate the insertion section to rotate the end effector generally axially relative to the distal longitudinal centerline of the forearm portion within the patient's body distal of the body wall. 3. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the coupling of the drive system to the insertion section restrains the motion of the forearm portion so that the longitudinal centerline of the forearm like remains substantially aligned to pass through the rotational center. 4. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the drive system is further operatively coupled to the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able to manually move the controller to operate the insertion section to move the end effector generally transversely in at least one degree of freedom relative to the distal longitudinal centerline of the forearm portion within the patients body distal of the body wall. 5. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein to end effector is couplable to the forearm portion by connection to a pivotal wrist member coupled to the forearm portion adjacent the distal end of the forearm portion, the wrist member actuatable to pivot in at least one degree of freedom of relative to the forearm portion. 6. The surgical system of claim 4, wherein the end effector is couplable to the forearm portion by connection to a bendable member coupled to the forearm portion. 7. The surgical system of claim 6, wherein the forearm portion includes at least one elongate steering control element coupled to the drive system and the bendable member, the control element actuatable to steer the bendable member in at least one degree of freedom of relative to the forearm portion. 8. The surgical system of claim 7, wherein the at least one elongate steering control element comprises a plurality of cables. 9. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the distal longitudinal centerline of the forearm portion is generally aligned collinearly to the proximal longitudinal centerline of the forearm portion, the forearm portion defining a generally straight body. 10. An endoscopic surgical system having a control section operatively coupled to a surgical manipulator assembly; the control section comprising an operator control station having a manual controller; and the surgical manipulator assembly comprising a drive system and an insertion section insertable into a patient through an aperture in a body wall to a location adjacent a surgical worksite in the patient; the insertion section including an end effector and an elongate forearm assembly having proximal end, a distal end and a longitudinal centerline extending between the proximal and distal ends; the end effector being couplable to the forearm assembly in such a manner that the end effector is disposed adjacent the forearm assembly distal end; the drive system having plurality of actuator motors and linkages, the drive system operatively coupled to both the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able to manually move the controller to operate the insertion section in such a manner as at least: to move the forearm assembly in at least one degree of freedom about an rotational center, wherein the rotational center is generally adjacent to, the body wall aperture, and the rotational center is generally adjacent the centerline of the proximal end of the forearm assembly; to rotate the forearm assembly about the proximal longitudinal centerline; and to provide the end effector with at least one motion actuation to manipulate tissue at the surgical site. 11. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the drive system is further operatively coupled to the insertion section and to control station so that an operator is able to manually move the controller to operate the insertion section to rotate the end effector generally axially relative to the distal longitudinal centerline of the forearm assembly within the patient's body distal of to body wall. 12. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the coupling of the drive system to the insertion section restrains the motion of the forearm assembly so that the longitudinal centerline of the forearm like remains substantially aligned to pass through the rotational center. 13. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the drive system is further operatively coupled to the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able to manually move the controller to operate the insertion section to move the end effector generally transversely in at least one degree of freedom relative to the distal longitudinal centerline of the forearm assembly within the patient's body distal of the body wall. 14. The surgical system of claim 13, wherein to end effector is couplable to the forearm assembly by connection to a pivotal wrist member coupled to the forearm assembly adjacent the distal end of the forearm assembly, the wrist member actuatable to pivot in at least one degree of freedom of relative to the forearm assembly. 15. The surgical system of claim 13, wherein the end effector is couplable to the forearm assembly by connection to a bendable member coupled to the forearm assembly. 16. The surgical system of claim 15, wherein the forearm assembly includes at least one elongate steering control element coupled to the drive system and the bendable member, the control element actuatable to steer the bendable member in at least one degree of freedom of relative to the forearm assembly. 17. The surgical system of claim 16, wherein the at least one elongate steering control element coupled comprises a plurality of cables. 18. The surgical system of claim 15, wherein the forearm assembly includes a longitudinal channel, the bendable member and end effector being removably insertable through the longitudinal channel so that the end effector extends distally from the forearm assembly to a point adjacent the surgical site. 19. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the distal longitudinal centerline of the forearm assembly is generally aligned collinearly to the proximal longitudinal centerline of the forearm assembly, the forearm assembly defining a generally straight body. 20. A robotic medical instrument system having a control section operatively coupled to an instrument manipulator assembly; the control section comprising an operator control station having a operator input device; and the instrument manipulator assembly comprising a drive system, and an insertion section at least a portion of which is insertable through an aperture in a patient to a location adjacent a worksite within the patient's body, the insertion section including: a body member having a proximal end, a distal end and a longitudinal centerline extending between the proximal and distal ends; at least one steerable bendable member having a proximal end and a distal end, the steerable bendable member coupled to the body member and arranged to extend distally of the body member; and an end effector coupled adjacent the distal end of the steerable bendable member; the drive system including a plurality of actuator motors and linkages, the drive system operatively coupled to both the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able use the input device to operate the insertion section in such a manner as at least to move the steerable bendable member so as to provide the end effector with at least one degree of freedom of motion relative to the body member. 21. The surgical system of claim 20, wherein the end effector is movably actuatable, and wherein the drive system is further operatively coupled to both the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able use the input device to operate the insertion section in such a manner as to provide the end effector with at least one motion actuation to manipulate tissue at the surgical site. 22. The surgical system of claim 20, wherein: the aperture in the patient comprises a minimally invasive incision; at least a portion of the body member is insertable through the incision; and the drive system is further operatively coupled to both the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able use the input device to operate the insertion section in such a manner as to move the body member in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an insertion point adjacent to the incision, the motion of the body member coordinated so that the longitudinal centerline of the body member remains aligned to substantially pass through the insertion point. 23. The surgical system of claim 22, wherein the at least one degree of freedom of motion of the body member with respect to the insertion point includes one of: (a) pivotal rotation of the body member in a first direction about the insertion point; (b) pivotal rotation of the body member in a second direction about the insertion point, perpendicular to the first direction; (c) translation of the body member so that insertion point moves substantially along the body member centerline relative to the body member; (d) axial rotation of the body about the centerline; and (e) a combination of two or more of motions (a) through (d). 24. The surgical system of claim 20, wherein the drive system is further operatively coupled to both the insertion section and the control station so that an operator is able use the input device to operate the insertion section in such a manner as to rotate the end effector generally axially relative to the distal longitudinal centerline of the body member within the patient's body distal of the body wall. 25. The surgical system of claim 20, wherein the drive system includes at least one elongate steering control element couplable to the bendable member, the control element actuatable to steer the bendable member in the a least one degree of freedom of relative to the body member. 26. The surgical system of claim 25, wherein the at least one elongate steering control element coupled comprises a plurality of cables. 27. The surgical system of claim 20, wherein the body member includes a longitudinal channel, the bendable member and end effector being removably insertable through the longitudinal channel so that the end effector is extendable distally from the forearm assembly to a point adjacent the worksite. 28. The surgical system of claim 20, wherein the distal longitudinal centerline of the body member is generally aligned collinearly to the proximal longitudinal centerline of the body member, the body member defining a generally straight body. 29. The surgical system of claim 20, wherein the insertion section comprises one of a surgical treatment instrument, a diagnostic probe, an endoscope, and a combination of one or more of these. 