An apparatus for and method of rinsing one side of a two-sided substrate and removing unwanted material from the substrate's edge and/or backside. One embodiment of the method is directed toward rinsing and cleaning a substrate having a front side upon which integrated circuits are to be formed and a backside. This embodiment includes dropping the substrate front side down onto a pool of rinsing liquid in a manner such that the front side of the substrate is in contact with the solution while the substrate is held in suspension by the surface tension of the solution liquid thereby preventing the backside of the substrate from sinking under an upper surface of the pool. Next, while the substrate is in suspension in said rinsing liquid, the substrate is secured by its edge with a first set of fingers and in some embodiments the substrate is subsequently spun. In another embodiment, a method of forming a copper layer on a front side of a substrate is disclosed. The method includes plating the copper layer over the front side of the substrate in a plating device and then transferring the substrate from the plating device to rinsing and cleaning station. At the rinsing and cleaning station, the substrate is dropped front side down onto a pool of rinsing liquid so that the surface tension of the liquid holds the substrate in suspension thereby preventing the backside of said substrate from sinking under an upper surface of the pool and then, while the substrate is suspended in the pool, it is secured with a first set of fingers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for rinsing a substrate having a front side upon which integrated circuits are to be formed, a backside and an edge, said method comprising: dropping the substrate front side down onto a pool of liquid in a manner such that the substrate is held in suspension by the surface tension of the liquid thereby preventing the backside of said substrate from sinking under an upper surface of said pool; and securing the substrate by its edge with a first set of fingers while the substrate is in suspension in said liquid. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said liquid comprises deionized water. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising spinning the substrate after the substrate is secured with the first set of fingers. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said liquid comprises deionized water. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said step of spinning the substrate further comprises spinning the substrate in a first direction and then reversing the substrate to spin in a second, opposite direction. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the direction said substrate is spun is reversed multiple times. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein said liquid is rinsing liquid and during at least one initial alternating direction spin cycle, rinsing liquid is continuously flowed to the front side of the substrate. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the flow of rinsing liquid is stopped prior to introducing a cleaning chemical to the backside of said substrate. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate is dropped onto said pool of liquid from a distance of 10 millimeters or less. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said cleaning chemical comprises one or more of sulfuric acid, nitric acid or citric acid. 11. A method of forming a copper layer on a front side of a substrate, said method comprising: (a) plating the copper layer over the front side of the substrate in a plating device; (b) transferring the substrate from the plating device to rinsing and cleaning station; (c) at the rinsing and cleaning station, dropping the substrate front side down onto a pool of rinsing liquid so that the surface tension of the liquid holds the substrate in suspension thereby preventing the backside of said substrate from sinking under an upper surface of the pool; and (d) securing the substrate with a first set of fingers while the substrate is in suspension in the pool. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising, prior to forming said copper layer, depositing a seed layer over the substrate using a chemical or physical vapor deposition process in a second substrate processing chamber and transferring said substrate from said second substrate processing chamber to said first substrate processing chamber. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said rinsing liquid comprises deionized water. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said substrate is dropped onto said pool of liquid from a distance of 10 millimeters or less. 15. A method for rinsing a substrate having a front side upon which integrated circuits are to be formed, a backside and an edge, said method comprising: dropping the substrate front side down onto a pool of liquid in a manner such that the substrate is held in suspension by the surface tension of the liquid thereby preventing the backside of said substrate from sinking under an upper surface of said pool; securing the substrate by its edge with a first set of fingers while the substrate is in suspension in said liquid; spinning the substrate after the substrate is secured with the first set of fingers; and while said substrate is spinning: (i) introducing a cleaning chemical to the backside of said substrate; (ii) thereafter, securing the substrate by its edge with a second set of fingers and releasing said first set of fingers; and (iii) thereafter, introducing said cleaning chemical to the backside of said substrate. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said liquid comprises deionized water. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of spinning the substrate further comprises spinning the substrate in a first direction and then reversing the substrate to spin in a second, opposite direction. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the direction said substrate is spun is reversed multiple times. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein said liquid is rinsing liquid and during at least one initial alternating direction spin cycle, rinsing liquid is continuously flowed to the front side of the substrate. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the flow of rinsing liquid is stopped prior to introducing said cleaning chemical to the backside of said substrate. 21. The method of claim 15 wherein said cleaning chemical comprises one or more of sulfuric acid, nitric acid or citric acid. 22. A method of forming a copper layer on a front side of a substrate, said method comprising: (a) plating the copper layer over the front side of the substrate in a plating device; (b) transferring the substrate from the plating device to rinsing and cleaning station; (c) at the rinsing and cleaning station, dropping the substrate front side down onto a pool of rinsing liquid so that the surface tension of the liquid holds the substrate in suspension thereby preventing the backside of said substrate from sinking under an upper surface of the pool; (d) securing the substrate with a first set of fingers while the substrate is in suspension in the pool; (e) spinning the substrate; and while said substrate is spinning: (i) introducing a cleaning chemical to the backside of said substrate; (ii) thereafter, securing the substrate with a second set of fingers and releasing said first set of fingers; and (iii) thereafter, introducing said cleaning chemical to the backside of said substrate. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said cleaning chemical comprises one or more of sulfuric acid, nitric acid or citric acid. 