Provided is, among other things, a dry deposition apparatus for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, wherein the substrate is layered on the chuck for processing; a charged grain delivery apparatus for directing charged grains for electrostatic deposition on the substrate at the locations of the collection zones; and an optical detection device for quantifying the amount of grains deposited.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for depositing grains on a substrate comprising: placing a substrate on an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones; directing charged grains towards the substrate; electrostatically depositing the grains on the substrate at the locations of the collection zones; and aligning the collection zones with an optical detection device and operating the device to quantify the amount of grains deposited at collection zones. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the aligning and operating step comprises operating a diffuse reflectance detection device by aligning a source of focused light and at least one detector for measuring non-specular reflections of the focused light from the substrate. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the aligning and operating step comprises operating an integrated diffuse reflectance and profilometry system. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: moving the electrostatic chuck from a first position at which the grains are directed for deposition and a second position at which the amounts are optically quantified. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: fitting the substrate into an alignment bracket: fitting the alignment bracket into alignment slots at the first position to establish correct positioning when the grains are directed for deposition; and fitting the alignment bracket into alignment slots at the first position to establish correct positioning when the amounts are optically quantified, thereby assuring that the collection zone-corresponding regions of the substrate are reproducibly placed from one operation of the method to another. 