One embodiment includes a capacitor having a first anode stack having a first number of anode foils, a second anode stack having a second number of anode foils, where the first number of anode foils is different than the second number of anode foils. Another aspect provides a capacitor having a case having a curved interior surface, and first, second, and third capacitor modules that confront the curved interior surface of the case. One aspect provides a capacitor having one or more anodes and a cathode structure comprising a plurality of integrally connected cathode plates, the cathode structure having a serpentine shape, interweaving under and over each of the one or more anodes. One aspect provides a feedthrough assembly having an electrically conductive member dimensioned to extend at least partially through a feedthrough hole of a case of the capacitor, the conductive member having a passage therethrough. One aspect provides a capacitor having a first stack of capacitive elements a second stack of capacitive elements, wherein the first and second stacks are enclosed in separate compartments of a capacitor case that electrically isolate the electrolytes of each stack from one another. One aspect provides a capacitor case including a portion having opposing interior and exterior surfaces, with the portion having a hole; and a semi-permeable membrane adjacent the hole to regulate passage of fluids through the hole.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A feedthrough assembly for a capacitor, the feedthrough assembly comprising: an electrically conductive member dimensioned to extend at least partially through a feedthrough hole of a case of the capacitor, the conductive member having a passage therethrough. 2. The feedthrough assembly of claim 1, wherein the passage is through an axial portion of the electrically conductive member. 3. The feedthrough assembly of claim 1, wherein the passage defines a mounting section for mounting a terminal. 4. The feedthrough assembly of claim 3, wherein the mounting section comprises a threaded section adapted to couple with a terminal fastener. 5. The feedthrough assembly of claim 1, further comprising an outer member located around the electrically conductive member, the outer member adapted to be attached to a case of the capacitor. 6. A feedthrough assembly for providing an electrical pathway between a capacitor stack within a capacitor case and a component outside the case, the feedthrough assembly comprising: a first member for electrically connecting the capacitor stack to the component, the first member having a passage adapted to couple with a terminal fastener so that the terminal fastener is removably attachable to the first member; and a second member for electrically insulating the first member from the case. 7. The feedthrough assembly of claim 6, wherein the passage extends completely through an axial portion of the first member. 8. The feedthrough assembly of claim 6, wherein the second member has a first surface for abutting an inner portion of the case next to a feedthrough hole in the case and a second surface for abutting an edge of the feedthrough hole. 9. The feedthrough assembly of claim 6, wherein the passage includes a threaded section. 10. The feedthrough assembly of claim 9, wherein the threaded section adapted to removably couple with a terminal fastener. 11. A capacitor comprising: a case having a hole; a capacitor stack within the case; and at least one feedthrough assembly located at least partially within the hole and coupled to the capacitor stack, the feedthrough assembly including a conductive member having a passage and an insulative member between the conductive member and the case. 12. The capacitor of claim 11, further comprising a connection tab electrically coupling the capacitor stack to the conductive member, the connection tab having a hole proximate to a portion of the connection tab coupled to the conductive member. 13. The capacitor of claim 12, wherein the passage is through an axial portion of the conductive member and the connection tab hole is adjacent to the passage. 14. The capacitor of claim 13, wherein a continuous passage exists through the feedthrough member passage and the hole. 15. The capacitor of claim 11, wherein the passage includes a mounting section. 16. The capacitor of claim 11, further comprising a terminal for coupling the feedthrough member to a component outside the case and a terminal fastener for attaching the terminal to the feedthrough member. 17. The capacitor of claim 16, wherein the feedthrough member passage has a threaded portion and the terminal fastener has a corresponding threaded portion so that the fastener is removably attachable to the feedthrough member. 18. An implantable medical device comprising: a therapy circuit for delivering electrical energy, wherein the therapy circuit includes one or more capacitors, each of the one or more capacitors comprising: a case; a capacitor stack within the case; and a feedthrough assembly for electrically coupling the capacitor stack to a component outside the case, the feedthrough assembly comprising: a conductive member having a mounting section adapted to couple with a terminal fastener, the terminal fastener for removably attaching a terminal to the feedthrough assembly; and an insulative member for insulating the conductive member from the case. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein the mounting section comprises a passage extending completely through the conductive member. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the feedthrough assembly is coupled to the capacitor stack by an electrically conductive tab, the tab having a portion at least partially covering the passage, the portion having a hole so that a continuous passage exists through the feedthrough passage and the hole. 21. A method for manufacturing an implantable medical device, the method comprising: providing a case having circuitry; providing a capacitor case having a hole; installing a feedthrough assembly at least partially into the hole, the feedthrough assembly comprising a conductive member having a passage; mounting a terminal to the passage; and coupling a conductor coupled to the circuitry to the terminal. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the feedthrough assembly includes an outer non-conductive member located around the conductive member. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the outer member is attached to the capacitor case. 24. A capacitor comprising: a case having a hole; a capacitor stack within the case; a conductive member electrically coupled to the capacitor stack and located proximate the hole; a terminal; and means for removably mounting the terminal to the conductive member. 25. The capacitor of claim 24, herein means for removably mounting includes a threaded passage within the conductive member. 26. The capacitor of claim 25, wherein the threaded passage extend completely through the conductive member. 