Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding microsomal triglyceride transfer protein. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein are provided
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 8 to 50 nucleobases in length which specifically hybridizes with at least an 8-nucleobase portion of an active site on a nucleic acid molecule encoding microsomal triglyceride transfer protein. 2. The compound of claim 1 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The composition of claim 10 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 12. The composition of claim 10 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 13. A method of inhibiting the expression of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of microsomal triglyceride transfer protein is inhibited. 