A method for a robotic semiconductor wafer processing system to correct for wafers that have become offset or off-center during wafer processing. This is accomplished by determining the amount of offset and re-centering the wafer during wafer transport to the next process station using a single station sensor to locate the wafer center point. Each single sensor located at each station activates when the wafer's edge traverses through the sensor's path. Directional coordinates for the measured designated points on the wafer's edge are calculated, and the intersection points of two circles, analytically derived from using the measured designated points as their centers, are determined. The intersection point closest to the true wafer center position represents the measured wafer's center point. This point is compared to the true wafer center position, and the wafer is then adjusted for this difference.
Claims Thus, having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A method of centering a wafer within a semiconductor processing apparatus having multiple stations and a single sensor at each of said stations, said method comprising: calibrating a true wafer center position for each of said stations; calculating and storing said calibrated wafer center positions; determining a location for each of said sensors; storing said sensor locations; measuring locations for first and second edge points on said wafer using said single sensor; and calculating a center of said wafer from said stored calibrated wafer position and said first and second edge point locations. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of calculating said center of said wafer further comprises: analytically deriving intersection points of two circles having said first and second edge points as center points and radii equal to said wafer radius; storing said intersection point closest to said true wafer center position as said center of said wafer; comparing said center of said wafer to said true wafer center position; and adjusting said wafer to said true wafer center position. 3. By The method of claim 2 wherein said step of comparing said calculated center of said wafer to said true wafer center position includes matching said true wafer center position with individual transition positions of said wafer to determine wafer displacement at each of said transition positions. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said calibrating step includes using a paddle having a known feature to locate said true wafer center position. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said feature includes a hole in said paddle or a solid segment on a surface of said paddle. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising calculating and storing radial and angular values of said true wafer center for each of said stations. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising calculating and storing radial and angular values for each of said sensor locations. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said calibrating step includes using a standard wafer having a known feature to locate said true wafer center position and affixed to an end effector. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said calibrating step includes subjecting said wafer, or end effector calibration features, to all possible transition sequences of wafer motion in said station. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising subjecting said wafer to a transition or rotation motion of said wafer from one of said stations to another of said stations. 11. The method of claim 9 further comprising subjecting said wafer to a transition on motion from one of said stations to another of said stations. 12. The method of claim 9 further comprising subjecting said wafer to a retraction or a pick from one of said stations. 13. The method of claim 9 further comprising subjecting said wafer to an extension or a place to one of said stations. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of measuring first and second edge points on said wafer further includes activating said sensor a first time by moving said wafer to said station, and activating said sensor a second time by extending said wafer into a module of said station. 15. A method of centering a wafer having a center and a radius in a semiconductor processing station having a sensor, comprising: calibrating a true wafer center position for said station; activating said sensor at a first transition point; defining said first transition point with a first set of radial and angular coordinates; calculating a second set of radial and angular coordinates for said first transition point; activating said sensor at a second transition point; defining said second transition point with a third set of radial and angular coordinates; and analytically deriving the intersection of two circles having said first and second transition points as center points and radii equal to said wafer radius. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of analytically deriving the intersection of two circles further includes discarding an intersection point furthest from said true wafer center position and storing a remaining intersection point as a calculated wafer center position. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: comparing said calculated wafer center position to-said true wafer center position; and adjusting said wafer to said true wafer center position. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of activating said sensor at a first transition point comprises rotating said wafer to said station. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising rotating said wafer using a robotic arm having a center point. 20. The method of claim 19 including measuring said first, second, and third sets of radial coordinates from said center point of said robotic arm. 21. The method of claim 15 wherein said first transition point includes a point on an edge of said wafer. 22. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of defining said first transition point with a first set of radial and angular coordinates further comprises electronically storing said coordinates. 23. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of calculating said second set of radial and angular coordinates further includes bringing said wafer to rest in said station. 24. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of calculating said second set of radial and angular coordinates further includes calculating from a known sweep angle of said robotic arm. 25. The method of claim 24 including calculating from a known angle of retraction, angle of transition, and original sensor angle. 26. The method of claim 25 further including an analytical relationship between said angle of retraction .theta..sub.retract, angle of transition .theta..sub.transition, and original sensor angle .theta..sub.sensor, such that .theta..sub.retract -.theta..sub.transition +.theta..sub.sensor. 27. The method of claim 15 wherein said second transition point includes a point on an edge of said wafer. 28. The method of claim 15 wherein said second transition point is a point different from said first transition point. 29. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of activating said sensor at a second transition point comprises placing said wafer within a module in said station. 30. The method of claim 29 further comprising extending a robotic arm holding said wafer. 31. The method of claim 15 wherein said step of defining said second transition point with a third set of radial and angular coordinates includes calculating said third set of coordinates from said first and second set of coordinates. 32. A method for detecting a center point of a wafer having a radius and an edge, positioned in a robotic holder of a semiconductor process system using a single sensor for determining said wafer's instantaneous position, said method comprising: providing one sensor having a defined line-of-sight and capable of activation when said wafer is moved by said robotic holder to cross said sensor's line of sight; calibrating said semiconductor process system to establish a true center position for said wafer; moving said wafer along a predetermined path to activate said sensor at first and second end points on said wafer's edge; determining coordinate positions of said true center position, and said first and second end points; calculating a wafer center point from said coordinate positions; and moving said wafer using said robotic holder to adjust said wafer center point to said true center position. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein said step of calculating a wafer center point further comprises: deriving two circles having centers located at each of said coordinate positions of said end points, and each having a radius equal to said wafer radius; calculating two intersection points of said two circles; and discarding one of said two intersection points furthest from said true center position, using the other of said intersection points as said wafer center point. 34. The method of claim 32 wherein said step of moving said wafer includes calculating a difference between coordinates of said wafer center point and coordinates of said true center position, and moving said wafer by said difference. 