Systems and methods for preventing conflicts in a media library system, wherein multiple hosts may attempt to access the same element (e.g., cartridge slot) at the same time. A plurality of pools are defined, each of which is associated with a corresponding subset of the hosts and a corresponding subset of the elements in the library. It is assumed that all of the hosts associated with a given pool have compatible software applications or some other means for preventing or resolving conflicts among them. Each host is then allowed to access only the subset of the elements in the library that are associated with the same pool as the host so no conflicting access commands are transmitted to the media library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: receiving a media library access command from a host; determining whether the received command is directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the host based on media library access information; if the received command is directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the host, forwarding the received command to the media library; if the received command is not directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the host, blocking the received command from the media library; and receiving user commands for modifying the media library access information at a management interface. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising associating each of a plurality of hosts with a corresponding one of a plurality of pools, wherein each of the plurality of pools includes a corresponding portion of the media library. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the pools are non-overlapping. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein more than one host is associated with at least one of the pools. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising returning an error message if the received command is not directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the host. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein forwarding the received command to the media library comprises forwarding the received command to a robot controller of the media library. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising mapping one or more virtual elements for each host to corresponding physical elements in the media library. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein at least a portion of the one or more virtual elements are common to hosts associated with different portions of the media library. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein forwarding the received command to the media library comprises modifying the received command based upon the identity of the host and forwarding the modified command to the media library. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the media library comprises a tape library. 11. A software application comprising one or more instructions, wherein the instructions are configured to cause a data processor to perform the method comprising: maintaining a list of pools based on media library access information, wherein each pool includes a portion of a media library and wherein each pool is associated with one or more hosts; identifying a source host from which a media library access request is received; identifying a target portion of the media library that is the target of the access request; identifying a target pool that includes the target portion of the media library; determining whether the source host is associated with the target pool; allowing the requested access if the source host is associated with the target pool and preventing the requested access if the source host is not associated with the target pool; and receiving user commands for modifying the media library access information at a management interface. 12. The software application of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises associating each of a plurality of hosts with a corresponding one of a plurality of pools, wherein each of the plurality of pools includes a corresponding portion of the media library. 13. The software application of claim 12, wherein the pools are non-overlapping. 14. The software application of claim 12, wherein more than one host is associated with at least one of the pools. 15. The software application of claim 11, wherein allowing the requested access comprises modifying the access request based upon the identity of the host and allowing the modified access to the media library. 16. The software application of claim 11, wherein forwarding the received command to the media library comprises forwarding the received command to a robotic controller of the media library. 17. The software application of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises mapping one or more virtual media for each host to corresponding physical media in the media library. 18. The software application of claim 17, wherein at least a portion of the one or more virtual media are common to hosts associated with different portions of the media library. 19. An apparatus comprising: a controller configured to be coupled between a media library and a host device; a memory coupled to the controller; and a management interface coupled to the controller; wherein the memory is configured to store media library access information, wherein the media library access information identifies a plurality of pools, wherein each pool contains a portion of the media library and wherein each of a plurality of host devices is associated with one of the pools; wherein the controller is configured to allow each host device to access only the portion of the media library with which the host device is associated; and wherein the management interface is configured to receive user commands for modifying the media library access information. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the controller and memory are contained in a media library system. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the pools are non-overlapping. 22. apparatus of claim 19, wherein the controller is configured to modify certain access requests based upon the identity of the host requesting access and to allow the modified access to the media library. 23. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the media library comprises a tape library. 24. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein each host device has a backup application which is used to access the media library, wherein the host devices use at least two incompatible backup applications and wherein each host device that uses a first one of the incompatible backup applications is associated with a first pool and each host device that uses a second one of the incompatible backup applications is associated with a second pool. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein each backup application is configured to resolve access conflicts between host devices that use the backup application. 26. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the controller is configured to map one or more virtual media for each host to corresponding physical media in the media library. 27. An apparatus comprising: a first interface configured to be coupled to a first transport medium; a second interface configured to be coupled to a second transport medium; a controller coupled to the first and second interfaces and configured to receive media library access commands via the first interface, identify a source and a target corresponding to each media library access command, determine whether the target is authorized to be accessed by the source, and forward the media library access command to the target only if the target is authorized to be accessed by the source; and a management interface coupled to the controller and configured to receive user commands for modifying the media library access information. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein determining whether the target is authorized to be accessed by the source comprises determining whether the source is associated with a pool containing the target. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the controller is configured to map one or more virtual media for each host to corresponding physical media in the media library. 30. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising a memory coupled to the controller and configured to store media library access information, wherein the media library access information identifies a plurality of pools, wherein each pool contains a portion of the media library and wherein each of a plurality of host devices is associated with one of the pools. 31. A method comprising: receiving a media library access command from a host; determining whether the received command is directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the host; if the received command is directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the host, forwarding the received command to the media library, wherein forwarding the received command to the media library comprises modifying the received command based upon the identity of the host and forwarding the modified command to the media library; and if the received command is not directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the host, blocking the received command from the media library. 32. A software application comprising one or more instructions, wherein the instructions are configured to cause a data processor to perform the method comprising: maintaining a list of pools, wherein each pool includes a portion of a media library and wherein each pool is associated with one or more hosts; identifying a source host from which a media library access request is received; identifying a target portion of the media library that is the target of the access request; identifying a target pool that includes the target portion of the media library; determining whether the source host is associated with the target pool; and allowing the requested access if the source host is associated with the target pool and preventing the requested access if the source host is not associated with the target pool, wherein allowing the requested access comprises modifying the access request based upon the identity of the host and allowing the modified access to the media library. 33. An apparatus comprising: a controller configured to be coupled between a media library and a host device; and a memory coupled to the controller and configured to store media library access information, wherein the media library access information identifies a plurality of pools, wherein each pool contains a portion of the media library and wherein each of a plurality of host devices is associated with one of the pools; wherein the controller is configured to allow each host device to access only the portion of the media library with which the host device is associated, to modify certain access requests based upon the identity of the host requesting access, and to allow the modified access to the media library. 34. An apparatus comprising: a first interface configured to be coupled to a first transport medium; a second interface configured to be coupled to a second transport medium; a controller coupled to the first and second interfaces and configured to receive media library access commands via the first interface, identify a source and a target corresponding to each media library access command, determine whether the target is authorized to be accessed by the source, modify certain media library access commands based upon the identity of the host submitting the command, and forward the modified media library access command to the target only if the target is authorized to be accessed by the source. 35. A method comprising: receiving media library access commands from one or more hosts that use at least two incompatible backup applications, wherein each host device that uses a first one of the incompatible backup applications is associated with a first pool and each host device that uses a second one of the incompatible backup applications is associated with a second pool; determining whether the received commands are directed to a portion of the media library which is accessible to the respective hosts; if the received commands are directed to portions of the media library which are accessible to the respective hosts, forwarding the received commands to the media library; and if the received commands are not directed to portions of the media library which are accessible to the respective hosts, blocking the received commands from the media library. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein each backup application is configured to resolve access conflicts between host devices that use the backup application. 37. An apparatus comprising: a controller configured to be coupled between a media library and a host device; and a memory coupled to the controller and configured to store media library access information, wherein the media library access information identifies a plurality of pools, wherein each pool contains a portion of the media library and wherein each of a plurality of host devices is associated with one of the pools; wherein the controller is configured to allow each host device to access only the portion of the media library with which the host device is associated; and wherein each host device has a backup application which is used to access the media library, wherein the host devices use at least two incompatible backup applications and wherein each host device that uses a first one of the incompatible backup applications is associated with a first pool and each host device that uses a second one of the incompatible backup applications is associated with a second pool. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein each backup application is configured to resolve access conflicts between host devices that use the backup application. 