The present invention provides an apparatus for automatically transferring and weighing a powder material. The apparatus comprises a weigh station including a device for weighing the powder material in a container. A transfer device for collecting and dispensing the powder material is provided in which the device has a hollow body having a first end and a second end. The first end being operatively connected to a vacuum source so that a vacuum is selectively formed in the body. A collecting/dispensing tip is detachably coupled to the second end of the body. The tip is a hollow member with a tip orifice at one end so that a vacuum is formed in the tip upon actuation of the vacuum source. A controller for causing the selective actuation of the vacuum source and movement of at least one of the transfer device and the container is provided. The powder material is collected by placing the tip orifice in close proximity to a supply of the powder material resulting in a transfer quantity of powder material being collected in the tip orifice when the vacuum source is actuated. The powder material is transferred to the container by removing the vacuum resulting in the transfer quantity of powder material being dispensed into the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automatically transferring and weighing a powder material, the apparatus comprising: a weigh station including a device for weighing the powder material in a container; a selectively actuatable device for generating a vacuum; a transfer device for collecting and dispensing the powder material, the transfer device being operatively connected to the vacuum device so that a vacuum is formed in the device upon actuation of the vacuum source, wherein the vacuum device is disposed external to the transfer device; a collecting/dispensing tip detachably coupled to one end of the transfer device, the tip being a hollow member with a tip orifice at one end so that a vacuum is formed in the tip upon actuation of the vacuum device; a controller for causing the selective actuation of the vacuum device and movement of at least one of the transfer device and the container; and a regulator for regulating the strength of the vacuum source, wherein the powder material is collected by placing the tip orifice in close proximity to a supply of the powder material resulting in a transfer quantity of powder material being collected in the tip orifice when the vacuum device is actuated, the powder material being transferred to the container by removing the vacuum resulting in the transfer quantity of powder material being dispensed into the container. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the powder material is repeatedly transferred to the container until a target weight is reached. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the weighing device is an electronic weighing device. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vacuum device includes a vacuum pump for generating a vacuum pressure in the transfer device. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the collecting/dispensing tip is a pipette tip. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the pipette tip is a hollow conical member having a first opening at a first end and a second opening at a second end. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the first opening has a first diameter significantly less than a diameter of the second opening. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the pipette tip has a filter disposed therein to prevent the powder material from flowing into the transfer device and into the vacuum device. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the collecting/dispensing tip including the tip orifice define the transfer quantity of the powder material which is collected under application of the vacuum. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller includes a robotic device for automating operation of the apparatus and permitting multiple transfers of the powder material from the powder material supply to the container. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller includes a valve member for selectively actuating the vacuum device. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the valve member is a solenoid valve. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller includes a robotic device having a robotic arm for gripping and positioning the transfer device and the container relative to one another. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transfer quantity is less than about 10 mg. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, where the transfer quantity is varied by varying one of a diameter of the tip orifice and a vacuum pressure of the vacuum source. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the container is a vial having a cap with an opening configured to receive a portion of the collecting/dispensing tip. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller communicates with the weighing device so that a measured weight of the powder material is continuously determined by the weighing device and processed by the controller. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller includes a user interface for inputting user information including a target weight and a diameter of the orifice tip. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the controller is configured so that it continuously computes the number of transfers needed to reach the target weight based upon the user input information and then generates control signals instructing the transfer device as to how to continue with any needed additional transfers. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transfer quantity is an amount of powder material needed to counter balance a strength of the vacuum source measured in terms of vacuum pressure. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: an ejector coupled to the body of the transfer device for causing the selective ejection of the collecting/dispensing tip. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the ejector is in communication with the controller which signals the ejector to cause displacement of the ejector along the body and ejection of the tip from the second end of the body. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ejector is a shucker concentrically disposed around a length of the body. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vacuum strength is less than about 30 mm Hg. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, further including: an external device for generating positive pressure selectively connected to the transfer device an in communication with the controller so that the powder material is fully dispensed when the vacuum is removed and positive pressure is applied to the transfer device. 26. A method of automatically transferring and weighing a powder material, the method comprising: providing a transfer device for collecting and dispensing the powder material, the transfer device including a collecting/dispensing tip and being operatively connected to a vacuum source; actuating the vacuum source so that a vacuum is formed in the collection/dispensing tip; positioning the collecting/dispensing tip relative to a supply of the powder material causing a transfer quantity to be drawn into the tip due to the resultant vacuum; regulating the strength of the vacuum source; positioning the tip relative to a collection container and removing the vacuum from the tip, thereby causing the transfer quantity of powder material to be dispensed into the collection container; weighing the powder material using a weighing device; and repeating, as necessary, the transfer of the powder material into the collection container until a target weight for the powder material is reached. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the positioning of the collecting/dispensing tip is done by a programmable robotic device. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein drawing the transfer quantity of powder material into the tip comprises: drawing an amount of the powder material which counter balances a strength of the vacuum as measured in terms of vacuum pressure. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein drawing the transfer quantity of powder material into the tip comprises: drawing an amount of the powder material into a tip orifice until the tip orifice becomes clogged. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein the transfer quantity is varied by varying one of a diameter of the tip orifice and a vacuum pressure of the vacuum source. 31. The method of claim 26, further including: controlling the operation of the transfer device, the vacuum source and the weighing device using a controller which is in communication therewith, the controller being programmable so that input information may be inputted. 32. The method of claim 26, wherein removing the vacuum comprises sending a signal to an actuator which is operatively connected to the vacuum source and the transfer device, whereupon receiving the signal, the actuator removes the vacuum from the tip. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the actuator comprises a solenoid valve. 34. The method of claim 31, wherein the controller receives a signal from the weighing device representative of the current weight of the powder material in the collection container, the controller processing the signal and calculating a number of subsequent transfers that are necessary to obtain the target weight. 