A system and method for controlling the surface and/or volume of a digital clay device is provided. One embodiment, among others, is a method comprising the following steps: determining a desired position of a skeleton structure portion residing in the digital clay device, determining a volumetric change of fluid residing in a bladder, the determined volumetric change corresponding to the determined desired position of the skeleton structure portion, opening a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid, and adjusting a position of the skeleton structure portion corresponding to the desired position of the skeleton structure portion, the position adjustment caused by a force generated by the bladder on the skeleton structure portion when the volume of the bladder changes in response to the determined volumetric change.
Claims Therefore, having thus described the invention, at least the following is claimed: 1. A method for controlling shape of a digital clay device, the method comprising the steps of: determining a desired position of a skeleton structure portion residing in the digital clay device; determining a volumetric change of a fluid residing in a bladder, the determined volumetric change corresponding to the determined desired position of the skeleton structure portion; opening a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder; and adjusting a position of the skeleton structure portion corresponding to the desired position of the skeleton structure portion, the position adjustment caused by a force generated by the bladder on the skeleton structure portion when the volume of the bladder changes in response to the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: sensing flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve; determining a measured volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow; comparing the measured volumetric change to the determined volumetric change; and closing the MEMS valve so that the fluid flow through the MEMS valve stops when the measured volumetric change substantially equals the determined volumetric change. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of sensing flow further comprises the step of sensing a pressure difference across the MEMS valve, and wherein the step of determining the measured volumetric change further comprises the step of calculating a flow rate of the fluid through the MEMS valve based upon the sensed pressure difference. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of volumetric changes of fluid residing in a plurality of bladders such that the sum of the determined plurality of volumetric changes corresponds to the determined desired position of the skeleton structure portion; and opening a corresponding plurality of MEMS valves so that fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the corresponding bladders. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the steps of: sensing flow of fluid through each one of the plurality of MEMS valves; determining a plurality of measured volumetric changes in the fluid from the sensed flows; comparing each one of the plurality of measured volumetric changes to a corresponding one of the determined volumetric changes; and closing the plurality of MEMS valves when the corresponding one of the measured volumetric changes substantially equals the corresponding determined volumetric change. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: opening a first MEMS valve so that the fluid flows through the first MEMS valve thereby causing fluid to flow into the bladder when the determined volumetric change increases an amount of fluid residing in the bladder; and opening a second MEMS valve so that the fluid flows through the second MEMS valve thereby causing fluid to flow out of the bladder when the determined volumetric change decreases the amount of fluid residing the bladder. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: opening the MEMS valve to a first position so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing fluid to flow into the bladder when the determined volumetric change increases an amount of fluid residing in the bladder; and opening to the MEMS valve to a second position so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing fluid to flow out of the bladder when the determined volumetric change decreases the amount of fluid residing in the bladder. 8. A method for sensing shape of a digital clay device, the method comprising the steps of: determining an initial position of a skeleton structure portion residing in the digital clay device; sensing a pressure change in a bladder, the pressure change corresponding to an external force applied to an exterior portion of the digital clay device; opening a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve in response to the sensed pressure change such that fluid residing in the bladder exits the bladder; sensing flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve; closing the MEMS valve when the sensed pressure is reduced to at least a predefined value, the reduced pressure resulting from the exit of fluid from the bladder, such that flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve stops; determining a volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow after the MEMS valve is closed; and determining a change in the position of the skeleton structure portion based upon the determined volumetric change. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of returning the skeleton structure portion to a predetermined position such that the step of determining the initial position of the skeleton structure portion is based upon the predetermined position. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of retrieving information corresponding to a previous position of the skeleton structure portion such that the step of determining the initial position of the skeleton structure portion is based upon the previous position. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of initial positions for each one of a plurality of skeleton structure portions residing in the digital clay device; sensing a pressure change in a plurality of bladders, the pressure change corresponding to the external force applied to the exterior portion of the digital clay device; opening a plurality of MEMS valves in corresponding ones of the plurality of bladders in response to the sensed pressure change such that fluid residing in the bladders exits the bladders; sensing flow of the fluid through each one of the corresponding MEMS valves; closing each one of the corresponding MEMS valves when the sensed pressure in each one of the corresponding bladders is reduced to at least a predefined value, the reduced pressure resulting from the exit of fluid from the bladders; determining a volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow in each one of the corresponding MEMS valves after the MEMS valves are closed; and determining a change in the position of the skeleton structure portions based upon the determined volumetric changes. 12. A system which controls a surface of a digital clay device, comprising: a processor system; a plurality of cells, each one of the plurality of cells further comprising: at least one bladder, the bladder configured to hold a bladder fluid; at lease one micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve, the valve controlled by the processor system; and at least one sensor coupled to the MEMS valve, the sensor configured to sense flow of a fluid through the MEMS valve such that a volumetric change in the bladder fluid is determinable by the processor system; and a covering having a plurality of surface portions, the covering being flexible and forming the surface of the digital clay device, each one of the surface portions coupled to selected ones of the plurality of cells such that a position of each one of the plurality of surface portions is controllable and determinable, the position of each one of the plurality of surface portions corresponding to an amount of bladder fluid in selected ones of the bladders. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein each one of the cells further comprises a skeleton structure portion configured to kinematically constrain movement of the bladder in a predetermined direction. 14. The system of claim 12, further comprising a skeleton structure configured to kinematically constrain movement of each one of the bladders residing in the cells in a predetermined direction. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein each one of the cells further comprises a backplate portion where the at least one MEMS valve and the at least one sensor reside. 16. The system of claim 12, further comprising a backplate, wherein each one of the MEMS valves and the sensors reside. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein at least one of the cells comprises a single MEMS valve and a single sensor, the single MEMS valve configured to open in a first position such that fluid flows into the bladder, and further configured to open in a second position such that fluid flows out of the bladder. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein at least one of the cells comprises: a first MEMS valve configured to open in a first position such that fluid flows into the bladder; a first sensor coupled to the first MEMS valve, the first sensor configured to sense flow of a fluid through the first MEMS valve such that a volumetric increase in the bladder fluid is determinable by the processor system; the second MEMS valve configured to open in a second position such that fluid flows out of the bladder; and a second sensor coupled to the second MEMS valve, the second sensor configured to sense flow of a fluid through the second MEMS valve such that a volumetric decrease in the bladder fluid is determinable by the processor system. 19. The system of claim 12, further comprising a high pressure reservoir, the high pressure reservoir having a pressure greater than a bladder pressure of the bladder such that when a corresponding MEMS valve coupled between the bladder and the high pressure reservoir is opened, fluid flows from the high pressure reservoir into the bladder. 20. The system of claim 12, further comprising a low pressure reservoir, the low pressure reservoir having a pressure less than a bladder pressure of the bladder such that when a corresponding MEMS valve coupled between the bladder and the low pressure reservoir is opened, fluid flows from the bladder into the low pressure reservoir. 21. A system for sensing shape of a digital clay device, comprising: means for determining a desired position of a skeleton structure portion residing in the digital clay device; means for determining a volumetric change of a fluid residing in a bladder, the determined volumetric change corresponding to the determined desired position of the skeleton structure portion; means for generating a control signal corresponding to the determined volumetric change; means for communicating the control signal to a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve such that the MEMS valve opens so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder; and means for adjusting a position of the skeleton structure portion corresponding to the desired position of the skeleton structure portion, the position adjustment caused by a force generated by the bladder on the skeleton structure portion when the volume of the bladder changes in response to the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder. 22. The system of claim 21, further comprising: means for sensing flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve; means for determining a measured volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow; means for comparing the measured volumetric change to the determined volumetric change; means for generating a second control signal when the measured volumetric change substantially equals the determined volumetric change; and means for communicating the second control signal to the MEMS valve such that the MEMS valve closes so that the fluid flow through the MEMS valve stops. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the means for sensing flow further comprises means for sensing a pressure difference across the MEMS valve, and wherein the means for determining the measured volumetric change further comprises means for calculating a flow rate of the fluid through the MEMS valve based upon the sensed pressure difference. 24. The system of claim 21, further comprising: means for determining a plurality of volumetric changes of fluid residing in a plurality of bladders such that the sum of the determined plurality of volumetric changes corresponding to the determined desired position of the skeleton structure portion; means for generating a plurality of control signals, each one of the plurality of control signals corresponding to one of the determined volumetric changes; and means for communicating each one of the plurality of control signals to a corresponding plurality of MEMS valves such that each one of the MEMS valves opens so that fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the corresponding bladders. 25. The system of claim 24, further comprising: means for sensing flow of fluid through each one of the plurality of MEMS valves; means for determining a plurality of measured volumetric changes in the fluid from the sensed flows; means for comparing each one of the plurality of measured volumetric changes to a corresponding one of the determined volumetric changes; means for generating a plurality of second control signals, each one of the plurality of second control signals corresponding to one of the measured volumetric changes, and wherein each one of the corresponding second control signals is generated when the corresponding one of the measured volumetric changes substantially equals the corresponding determined volumetric change; and means for communicating each one of the plurality of second control signals to a corresponding one of the plurality of MEMS valves such that each one of the plurality of MEMS valves close. 26. The system of claim 21, further comprising: means for generating a first control signal corresponding to the determined volumetric change when the determined volumetric change increases an amount of fluid residing in the bladder; means for communicating the first control signal to a first MEMS valve such that the first MEMS valve opens so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing fluid to flow into the bladder; means for generating a second control signal corresponding to the determined volumetric change when the determined volumetric change decreases the amount of fluid residing in the bladder; and means for communicating the second control signal to a second MEMS valve such that the second MEMS valve opens so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing fluid to flow out of the bladder. 27. A computer readable medium having a program for sensing shape of a digital clay device, the program comprising logic configured to perform the steps of: determining a desired position of a skeleton structure portion residing in the digital clay device; determining a volumetric change of a fluid residing in a bladder, the determined volumetric change corresponding to the determined desired position of the skeleton structure portion; generating a control signal corresponding to the determined volumetric change; communicating the control signal to a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve such that the MEMS valve opens so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder; and adjusting a position of the skeleton structure portion corresponding to the desired position of the skeleton structure portion, the position adjustment caused by a force generated by the bladder on the skeleton structure portion when the volume of the bladder changes in response to the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder. 28. A system which senses shape of a digital clay device, comprising: means for determining an initial position of a skeleton structure portion residing in the digital clay device; means for sensing a pressure change in a bladder, the pressure change corresponding to an external force applied to an exterior portion of the digital clay device; means for opening a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve in response to the sensed pressure change such that fluid residing in the bladder exits the bladder; means for sensing flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve; means for closing the MEMS valve when the sensed pressure is reduced to at least a predefined value, the reduced pressure resulting from the exit of fluid from the bladder, such that flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve stops; means for determining a volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow after the MEMS valve is closed; and means for determining a change in the position of the skeleton structure portion based upon the determined volumetric change. 29. The system of claim 28, further comprising means for returning the skeleton structure portion to a predetermined position such that the initial position of the skeleton structure portion is based upon the predetermined position. 30. The system of claim 28, further comprising means for retrieving information corresponding to a previous position of the skeleton structure portion such that the initial position of the skeleton structure portion is based upon the previous position. 31. The system of claim 28, further comprising: means for determining a plurality of initial positions for each one of a plurality of skeleton structure portions residing in the digital clay device; means for sensing a pressure change in a plurality of bladders, the pressure change corresponding to the external force applied to the exterior portion of the digital clay device; means for opening a plurality of MEMS valves in corresponding ones of the plurality of bladders in response to the sensed pressure change such that fluid residing in the bladders exits the bladders; means for sensing flow of the fluid through each one of the corresponding MEMS valves; means for closing each one of the corresponding MEMS valves when the sensed pressure in each one of the corresponding bladders is reduced to at least a predefined value, the reduced pressure resulting from the exit of fluid from the bladders; means for determining a volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow in each one of the corresponding MEMS valves after the MEMS valves are closed; and means for determining a change in the position of the skeleton structure portions based upon the determined volumetric changes. 32. A computer readable medium having a program for sensing shape of a digital clay device, the program comprising logic configured to perform the steps of: determining an initial position of a skeleton structure portion residing in the digital clay device; sensing a pressure change in a bladder, the pressure change corresponding to an external force applied to an exterior portion of the digital clay device; opening a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve in response to the sensed pressure change such that fluid residing in the bladder exits the bladder; sensing flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve; closing the MEMS valve when the sensed pressure is reduced to at least a predefined value, the reduced pressure resulting from the exit of fluid from the bladder, such that flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve stops; determining a volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow after the MEMS valve is closed; and determining a change in the position of the skeleton structure portion based upon the determined volumetric change. 33. A method for controlling shape of a surface using a digital clay device, the method comprising the steps of: determining a desired position of at least one surface portion; determining a volumetric change of a fluid residing in a bladder, the determined volumetric change corresponding to the determined desired position of the surface portion; opening a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve so that the fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder; and adjusting a position of the surface portion corresponding to the desired position of the surface portion, the position adjustment caused by a force generated by the bladder when the volume of the bladder changes in response to the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the bladder. 34. The method of claim 33, further comprising the steps of: sensing flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve; determining a measured volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow; comparing the measured volumetric change to the determined volumetric change; and closing the MEMS so that the fluid flow through the MEMS valve stops. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the step of sensing flow further comprises the step of sensing a pressure difference across the MEMS valve, and wherein the step of determining the measured volumetric change further comprises the step of calculating a flow rate of the fluid through the MEMS valve based upon the sensed pressure difference. 36. The method of claim 33, further comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of volumetric changes of fluid residing in a plurality of bladders such that the sum of the determined plurality of volumetric changes corresponds to the determined desired position of the surface portion; and opening a corresponding plurality of MEMS valves so that fluid flows through the MEMS valve thereby causing the determined volumetric change of the fluid residing in the corresponding bladders. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising the steps of: sensing flow of fluid through each one of the plurality of MEMS valves; determining a plurality of measured volumetric changes in the fluid from the sensed flows; comparing each one of the plurality of measured volumetric changes to a corresponding one of the determined volumetric changes; and closing the corresponding ones of the plurality of MEMS valves when the corresponding ones of the measured volumetric changes substantially equals the corresponding determined volumetric change. 38. The method of claim 33, further comprising the steps of: opening the MEMS valve to a first position so that the fluid flows into the bladder when the determined volumetric change increases an amount of fluid residing in the bladder; and opening the MEMS valve to a second position so that the fluid flows out of the bladder when the determined volumetric change decreases the amount of fluid residing in the bladder. 39. A method for sensing shape of a surface using a digital clay device, the method comprising the steps of: determining an initial position of a surface portion; sensing a pressure change in a bladder, the pressure change corresponding to an external force applied to the surface portion; opening a micro-electro mechanical systems (MEMS) valve in response to the sensed pressure change such that fluid residing in the bladder exits the bladder; sensing flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve; closing the MEMS valve when the sensed pressure is reduced to at least a predefined value, the reduced pressure resulting from the exit of fluid from the bladder, such that flow of the fluid through the MEMS valve stops; determining a volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow after the MEMS valve is closed; and determining a change in the position of the surface portion based upon the determined volumetric change. 40. The method of claim 39, further comprising the step of returning the surface portion to a predetermined position such that the step of determining the initial position of the surface portion is based upon the predetermined position. 41. The method of claim 39, further comprising the step of retrieving information corresponding to a previous position of the surface portion such that the step of determining the initial position of the surface portion is based upon the previous position. 42. The method of claim 39, further comprising the steps of: determining a plurality of initial positions for each one of a plurality of surface portions; sensing a pressure change in a plurality of bladders, the pressure change corresponding to the external force applied to the surface portions; opening a plurality of MEMS valves in corresponding ones of the plurality of bladders in response to the sensed pressure change such that fluid residing in the bladders exits the bladders; sensing flow of the fluid through each one of the corresponding MEMS valves; closing each one of the corresponding MEMS valves when the sensed pressure in each one of the corresponding bladders is reduced to at least a predefined value, the reduced pressure resulting from the exit of fluid from the bladders; determining a volumetric change in the fluid from the sensed flow in each one of the corresponding MEMS valves after the MEMS valves are closed; and determining a change in the position of the surface portions based upon the determined volumetric changes. 