A method of forming a body by deposition of a weld material comprises providing a welding head (12), providing a foundation (52) upon which the body is to be formed. A weld material is supplied from a supply (22). The welding head (12) and the foundation (52) are connected to a supply of electricity to form an arc between the welding head (12) and the foundation (52) to melt the material. A raised member (74) is provided on the foundation (52). The method further includes manipulating the foundation (52) and the welding head (12) relative to each other to deposit the material on the raised member (74) and form the body.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of forming a body by deposition of a weld material, the method comprising: providing a welding head and a support member upon which the body is to be formed; and supplying a weld material to be deposited on the support member and connecting the support member and the welding head to a supply of electricity to form an arc between the welding head and the support member or the body to melt the material, wherein a raised member is provided on the support member, the support member and the welding head are manipulated relative to each other to deposit the material on the raised member and form said body thereon, the raised member includes a first section and a second section, the second section being of narrower cross-section than the first section, the second section extending from the first section to the support member, the body being formed on the first section and the narrower cross-section of the second section inhibits the conduction of heat from the body during formation, the formed body being subsequently released from the raised member. 2. A method according to claim 1 further including the step of manipulating the welding head and the support member relative to each other to deposit the weld material on the support member to form the raised member before the step of forming the body on the raised member. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the first section tapers inwardly to the second section and the second section tapers outwardly to the support member. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the raised member is in the form of a wall extending around the support member. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the raised member is in the form of an annular wall. 