An electro-chemical deposition apparatus and method are generally provided. In one embodiment of the invention, an electro-chemical deposition apparatus includes a housing having a substrate support disposed therein and adapted to rotate a substrate. One or more electrical contact elements are disposed on the substrate support. A drive system is disposed proximate the housing. The drive system is magnetically coupled to and adapted to rotate the substrate support. In another embodiment, a method of plating a substrate includes the steps of covering a substrate supported within a housing with electrolyte, and displacing a portion of the electrolyte from the housing prior to electrically biasing the substrate, and electrically biasing the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of electro-chemical deposition comprising: flowing an electrolyte into a housing to a level that covers a substrate supported within the housing; introducing a second fluid below the substrate to displace a portion of the electrolyte from the housing prior to electrically biasing the substrate thereby creating a floating layer of electrolyte surrounding the substrate; and electrically biasing the substrate in the floating layer of electrolyte. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second fluid further comprises: a heavy immiscible liquid. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the heavy immiscible liquid has a density of at least about 1.2 g/mL and is insoluble in water solutions. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the displacing step further comprises: recovering electrolyte from the housing. 5. The method of claim 2 further comprising: removing the electrolyte from the housing after deposition by flowing additional heavy immiscible liquid into the housing. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising: draining the heavy immiscible liquid from the housing after the electrolyte is removed. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising: flowing water into the housing after at least a portion of the heavy immiscible liquid is drained. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the heavy immiscible fluid is drained from the bottom of the housing. 9. The method of claim 5, further comprising: electro-polishing the substrate without removing the substrate from the housing. 10. The method of claim 5 further comprising: removing deposited material from the edge of the substrate without removing the substrate from the housing. 11. A method of electro-chemical deposition on a substrate, comprising: sealing the substrate within a housing with a first lid; flowing an electrolyte into the housing; applying a bias to the substrate; removing the first lid and sealing the substrata within the housing with a second lid; and displacing the electrolyte with a heavy immiscible liquid flowing into the housing. 12. A method of electro-chemical deposition on a substrate, comprising supporting a substrate on a substrate support within a housing; covering the supported substrate with electrolyte; rotating the drive plate; and electrically biasing the substrate. 13. A method for electrochemically depositing a conductive surface on a substrate, comprising: supporting the substrate on an upwardly facing substrate support in a housing having an anode above the substrate; flowing an electrolyte into the housing; flowing an immiscible liquid having a density greater than the electrolyte into the housing to fill the housing to a level below the upper surface of the substrate support, the total volume of the immiscible liquid and the electrolyte being sufficient that the electrolyte covers the upper surface of the substrate and the lower surface of the anode; and applying an electrical bias to the substrate support and to the anode, whereby a conductive surface is deposited on the upper surface of the substrate. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising: removing the electrolyte from the housing after deposition by flowing additional heavy immiscible liquid into the housing. 15. The method of claim 13, including; electro-polishing the substrate without removing it from the housing. 16. The method of claim 13, including: removing deposited material from the edge of the substrate without removing the substrate from the housing. 17. A method of electro-chemical deposition comprising: flowing an electrolyte into a housing having a substrate supported therein; introducing a heavy immiscible liquid into the housing below the electrolyte to a level sufficient to displace the electrolyte upwardly and create a floating layer of electrolyte surrounding the substrate; and electrically biasing the substrate in the floating layer of electrolyte. 18. The method as defined by claim 17, wherein sufficient heavy immiscible liquid is introduced to displace a portion of the electrolyte from the housing. 