A production test machine pre-screens panels of memory modules for shorts and leakage and other D.C. parameters. Memory modules are constructed as part of a panel of 6 or so modules formed on the same substrate. The modules are connected together by links of the substrate. The D.C. tests are performed on memory modules before separation from the panel (de-panelization), while the modules are still connected together by the panel links. Using parallel testing, a whole panel of modules can be D.C. tested at the same time. Failing modules can then be marked or noted, and the good modules separated from the panel links and sent to a more expensive A.C. tester for functional testing. The spacing or pitch of test heads on the D.C. tester can be adjusted for different sizes of panels.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for producing memory modules comprising: inputting a panel substrate, the panel substrate comprising a plurality of module regions with metal interconnect and contact pads for electrically connecting a memory module to a socket; bonding memory chips onto the module regions of the panel substrate to create a panel with a plurality of memory modules formed on the plurality of module regions; moving the panel to a test position in a panel tester; contacting the contact pads on the panel to electrically connect the panel tester to at least one of the memory modules formed on the panel; testing the at least one of the memory modules electrically connected through the contact pads to the panel tester; indicating when the at least one of the memory modules passes testing by the panel tester; moving the panel from the panel tester to a de-panelization station; separating the memory modules from the panel at the de-panelization station; moving memory modules that passed testing by the panel tester from the de-panelization station to a functional tester; and functionally testing the memory modules that passed testing by the panel tester using the functional tester to verify operation of the memory modules at a test frequency higher than a frequency that the panel tester tested the panel, whereby panels are tested before de-panelization and after de-panelization. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: testing other memory modules on the panel in parallel with testing the at least one of the memory modules, whereby memory modules on the panel are tested in parallel by the panel tester. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein contacting the contact pads comprises contacting contact pads for all modules on the panel; wherein all memory modules on the panel are tested in parallel by the panel tester. 4. The method of claim 2 further comprising: indicating which memory modules fail testing by the panel tester; marking the memory modules indicated as failing testing by the panel tester; and sorting the memory modules from the panel that pass testing by the panel tester from memory modules that are marked as failing testing by the panel tester; whereby failing modules on the panel are marked before de-panelization for sorting. 5. The method of claim 2 further comprising: programming configuration data into a configuration memory on the memory module, whereby configuration data is programmed into the memory module. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein testing by the panel tester comprises: testing for pad shorts, open pads, or pad leakage; and testing for power-supply current exceeding a predetermined current limit. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein testing by the panel tester further comprises: testing for high and low output voltages of output pads. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein testing by the panel tester further comprises: testing for defects by applying a test pattern at a low frequency below a specified operating frequency of the memory module. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein separating the memory modules from the panel at the de-panelization station comprises breaking the panel substrate between the module regions and panel links; wherein moving the panel to a test position in a panel tester comprises handling the panel by the panel links, whereby panel links for handling the panel of memory modules are broken off after panel testing. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein bonding memory chips onto the module regions of the panel substrate comprises bonding a first set of the memory chips to a front surface of the panel substrate and bonding a second set of the memory chips to a back surface of the panel substrate, whereby memory chips are mounted on both sides of the memory modules. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the panel substrates with solder paste applied to a surface are input to an automated assembly machine that inserts memory chips into the solder paste, and heats the panel substrate to reflow solder to bond the memory chips to the panel substrate. 