A method of preparing a protein array based on biochemical protein-protein interaction is provided. An array of a first protein which includes a PDZ domain is deposited on a substrate. A second protein, which includes an amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L)--COOH (each hyphen represents a peptide bond, each parenthesis encloses amino acids which are alternatives to one other, each slash within such parentheses separates the alternative amino acids, and the X represents any amino acid which is selected from the group comprising the twenty naturally occurring amino acids), is applied to the first protein array. The amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L)--COOH of the second protein is bound to the PDZ domain of the first protein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a protein array, comprising the steps of; (a) depositing on a substrate an array of first proteins, each first protein comprising a PDZ domain; and (b) applying a second protein, which comprises an amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L)--COOH, to the array of first proteins, the amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L)--COOH of the second protein, for each of the first proteins, binding to the PDZ domain of the first protein, wherein each hyphen represents a peptide bond, each parenthesis encloses amino acids which are alternatives to one other, each slash within such parentheses separates the alternative amino acids, and the X represent any amino acid which is selected from the group consisting of alanine, cysteine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, phenylalanine, glycine, histidine, isoleucine, lysine, leucine, methionine, asparagine, proline, glutamine, arginine, serine, threonine, valine, tryptophan and tyrosine. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L) is fused to the C-terminal of the second protein. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first proteins deposited in step (a) is in a soluble buffer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first proteins deposited in step (a) is immobilized in a gel. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate includes a plurality of microwells contained therein, and the first proteins are deposited in step (a) into the microwells. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate includes a glass plate, and the first proteins are printed onto the glass plate in step (a). 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate includes a glass plate and a plurality of gel pads on the glass plate, and the first proteins are deposited in step (a) onto the gal pads. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first proteins are deposited on the substrate by a robot. 9. A method of preparing a protein array, comprising the steps of: (a) depositing on a substrate an array of a first protein, the first protein comprising a PDZ domain; and (b) applying a plurality of second proteins, each of which comprises an amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L)--COOH, to the elements of the first protein array, for each of the second proteins, the amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L)--COOH of the second protein binding to the PDZ domain of the first protein in the array element, wherein each hyphen represents a peptide bond, each parenthesis encloses amino acids which are alternatives to one other, each slash within such parentheses separates the alternative amino acids, and the X represents any amino acid which is selected from the group consisting of alanine, cysteine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, phenylalanine, glycine, histidine, isoleucine, lysine, leucine, methionine, asparagine, proline, glutamine, arginine, serine, threonine, valine, tryptophan and tyrosine. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the amino acid sequence (S/T)--X--(V/I/L) is fused to the C-terminal of the second protein. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the first protein deposited in step (a) is in a soluble buffer. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the first protein deposited in step (a) is immobilized in a gel. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the substrate includes a plurality of microwells contained therein, and the first protein is deposited in step (a) into the microwells. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the substrate includes a glass plate, and the first protein array is printed onto the glass plate in step (a). 15. The method of claim 9, wherein the substrate includes a glass plate and a plurality of gel pads on the glass plate, and the first protein is deposited in step (a) onto the gel pads. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the first protein is deposited on the substrate by a robot. 