Specific embodiments of the present invention provide a method for chemical-mechanical planarization of an object. The method comprises performing a first planarization of the object using a first polishing pad having a smaller surface area than the object being planarized in a processing module; and cleaning the object in the processing module. In some embodiments, cleaning the object comprises scrubbing the object. The object may be scrubbed using a PVA sponge. Cleaning the object may comprise applying ultrasonic energy to the object. The ultrasonic energy may be applied to the object using an ultrasonic wand, ultrasonic shower, or an ultrasonic nozzle. In specific embodiments, the object is precleaned in the processing module, and the object is cleaned in a separate cleaning module. Prior to cleaning the object in the processing module, a second planarization of the object may be performed using a second polishing pad having a smaller surface area than the object being planarized in the processing module. The second polishing pad may be different in fineness from the first polishing pad.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for chemical-mechanical planarization of an object, the method comprising: performing a first planarization of the object using a first polishing pad having a smaller surface area than the object being planarized in a processing module; and cleaning the object in the same processing module without moving the object to a different location; wherein the first planarization of the object is performed using the first polishing pad and a chemical and wherein the object is spin-dried in the same processing module after being cleaned. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein cleaning the object comprises scrubbing the object. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the object is scrubbed using a PVA sponge. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein cleaning the object comprises applying ultrasonic energy to the object. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the ultrasonic energy is applied to the object using an ultrasonic wand, ultrasonic shower, or an ultrasonic nozzle. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the object is precleaned in the same processing module prior to performing the first planarization of the object, and further comprising cleaning the object in a separate cleaning module. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising performing a second planarization of the object using a second polishing pad having a smaller surface area than the object being planarized in the processing module prior to cleaning the object in the same processing module. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the second polishing pad is different in fineness from the first polishing pad. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the processing module comprises a processing chamber in which the first planarization is performed and the object is cleaned. 10. A method for chemical-mechanical planarization of an object, the method comprising: providing a chemical-mechanical planarization apparatus in a processing chamber; performing a first planarization of the object with the chemical-mechanical planarization apparatus in the processing chamber using a first polishing pad having a smaller surface area than the object being planarized; and cleaning the object in the same processing chamber without moving the object to a different location; wherein the first planarization of the object is performed using the first polishing pad and a chemical and wherein the object is spin-dried in the same processing module after being cleaned. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the object is precleaned in the same processing chamber prior to performing the first planarization of the object. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein cleaning the object comprises applying ultrasonic energy to the object using an ultrasonic nozzle. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein cleaning the object comprises spraying the object with a cleaning fluid. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the cleaning fluid is delivered by a nozzle in the processing module. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the cleaning fluid is delivered by a shower in the processing module. 16. The method of claim 10 wherein cleaning the object comprises applying ultrasonic energy to the object using an ultrasonic shower. 17. The method of claim 10 further comprising performing a second planarization of the object using a second polishing pad having a smaller surface area than the object being planarized in the processing module prior to cleaning the object in the same processing module, the second polishing pad being different in fineness from the first polishing pad. 18. The method of claim 10 wherein cleaning the object comprises spraying the object with a cleaning fluid. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the cleaning fluid is delivered by a nozzle in the processing module. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the cleaning fluid is delivered by a shower in the processing module. 