The present invention relates to transducers, their use and fabrication. The transducers convert between mechanical and electrical energy. Some transducers of the present invention include a pre-strained polymer. The pre-strain improves the conversion between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention also relates to devices including an electroactive polymer to convert between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer included in a transducer. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transducer for converting between mechanical and electrical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field and/or arranged in a manner which causes a change in electric field in response to deflection of the polymer, wherein the polymer includes an additive to improve the operating performance of the transducer and wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus at most about 100 MPa without electrical energy applied thereto. 2. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the additive improves at least one of polymer dielectric breakdown strength, maximum linear strain, dielectric constant, elastic modulus, response time, and actuation voltage. 3. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the additive comprises at least one of a plasticizer, an antioxidant, and a high dielectric constant particulate. 4. The transducer of claim 3 wherein the plasticizer comprises a material selected from a group consisting of high molecular-weight hydrocarbon oil, high molecular-weight hydrocarbon grease Pentalyne H, Piccovar.RTM. AP Hydrocarbon Resin, Admex 760, Plastolein 9720, silicone oil, silicone grease, Floral 105, silicone elastomers, nonionic surfactants, and combinations thereof. 5. The transducer of claim 3 wherein the antioxidant is a nonvolatile solid antioxidant. 6. The transducer of claim 3 wherein the plasticizer reduces the elastic modulus of the polymer and/or increases the dielectric breakdown strength of the polymer. 7. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the additive improves one of the ability of the polymer to convert between mechanical and electrical energy and an adhesion of the polymer. 8. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the polymer is elastically pre-strained. 9. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the transducer is included in an actuator, a generator, and a sensor. 10. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the transducer is included in one of a robot, a motor, a pump, or a toy. 11. A transducer for converting between mechanical and electrical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; and a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field and/or arranged in a manner which causes a change in electric field in response to deflection of the polymer, wherein the polymer includes an additive to improve the operating performance of the transducer and wherein the polymer is elastically pre-strained by a factor in the range of about 1.5 times to 50 times an original area of the polymer. 12. The transducer of claim 11 wherein the additive improves at least one of polymer dielectric breakdown strength, maximum linear strain, dielectric constant, elastic modulus, response time, and actuation voltage. 13. The transducer of claim 11 wherein the additive comprises at least one of a plasticizer, an antioxidant, and a high dielectric constant particulate. 14. The transducer of claim 13 wherein the plasticizer comprises a material selected from a group consisting of high molecular-weight hydrocarbon oil, high molecular-weight hydrocarbon grease, Pentalyne H, Piccovar.RTM. AP Hydrocarbon Resins, Adriex 760, Plastolein 9720, silicone oil grease, Floral 105, silicone elastomers, nonionic surfactants, and combinations thereof. 15. The transducer of claim 13 wherein antioxidant is a nonvolatile solid antioxidant. 16. The transducer of claim 13 wherein the plasticizer reduces the elastic modulus of the polymer and/or increases the dielectric breakdown strength of the polymer. 17. The transducer of claim 11 wherein the additive improves one of an ability of the polymer to convert between mechanical and electrical energy and an adhesion of the polymer. 18. The transducer of claim 11 wherein the transducer is included in one of an actuator, a generator, or a sensor. 19. The transducer of claim 11 wherein the transducer is included in one of a robot, a motor, a pump, or a toy. 