A device for detecting physical objects, each object having a detectable identifier, the objects being disposed in association with a graphic display device, comprising a detector operable to detect a location of said identifier relative to said graphic display device, and to output a signal bearing information of said first location, wherein said device is operable to determine, by electronic processing, from said signal, a relative location of said physical object in relation to said graphic display device.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of detecting each one of a set of physical objects, placed over a graphic display device, each of said objects comprising an identifier, the method comprising: continuously electronically refreshing a displayed playing image on said graphic display device, placing at least one of said objects at a location over said displayed playing image such that said object is separated from said graphic display device and said displayed playing image by a transparent conductive foil, detecting said identifier by means of a detecting unit associated with said transparent conductive foil, outputting a signal from said detecting unit, which signal bears information of said location, and determining from said signal, information of said location. 2. A method according to claim 1, each object having a unique identity within said set, wherein said indicator is indicative of said identity, said signal output from said detecting unit further bearing information of said unique identity and wherein said step of determining comprises determining said unique identity. 3. A method of detecting each one of a set of physical objects, placed over a graphic display device, each of said objects comprising a visual identifier, the method comprising: continuously electronically refreshing a displayed playing image on said graphic display device, placing at least one of said objects at a location over said graphic display device and said displayed playing image, detecting said visual identifier using image recognition capability, outputting a signal upon recognition of said identifier, said signal bearing recognition information of said object and location information, and determining from said signal, information of said location. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said identifier is an electronic identifier, said identifier producing an output which is identifiable within said set. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said electronic identifier is a resonant circuit and wherein said output is electromagnetic radiation at a frequency unique within said set. 6. A method of detecting each one of a set of physical objects, placed over a graphic display device, each of said objects comprising an identifier, the method comprising: continuously electronically refreshing a displayed playing image on said graphic display device, placing at least one of said objects at a location over said graphic display device, detecting said identifier by means of a detecting unit, outputting a signal from said detecting unit, which signal bears information of said location, and determining from said signal, information of said location, wherein said identifier is a transmitter, wherein there is provided a step of triggering said transmitter to emit a signal, wherein there is provided a step of measuring one of a group comprising a time delay between triggering and receiving said emitted signal and a phase change between a transmitted and corresponding received signal, to each one of a plurality of receivers, and wherein there is provided a step of deducing the location of the object by comparing said one of said group at each of said plurality of receivers. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein said transmitter is any one of a group comprising an ultrasound transmitter, an infra-red transmitter, a radio frequency transmitter and a microwave transmitter. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein said physical object is externally powered. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein said physical object is internally powered. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said physical object is any one of a group comprising a game piece, a simulation piece and a pointer. 11. A method according to claim 6, wherein said graphic display device is a flat screen graphic display device. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein said graphic display device device is a tablet device. 13. A method according to claim 1, comprising the further step of using a token moving subsystem to move said at least one physical object over said graphic display device. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said token moving subsystem includes an actuable arm. 15. A method according to claim 14, said actuable arm comprising an identifier. 16. A method according to claim 1, further comprising a registration step, carried out before said determining step, of indicating a plurality of known positions on said graphic display device, detecting said known positions and mapping between said known positions and said detected positions. 17. A method according to claim 1, wherein said detecting unit comprises a co-ordinate system of detecting coils arranged on said graphic display device. 18. A method according to claim 1, each of said physical objects being excitable by a predetermined resonant frequency respectively, wherein said graphic display device is surrounded by an excitation coil operable to output a signal detectable by objects in said set each having a different resonant frequency, to excite said objects. 19. A method according to claim 18, said signal being a wide band signal. 20. A method according to claim 18, said signal comprising a train of short pulses. 21. A method according to claim 18, said signal comprising a series of frequencies corresponding to resonant frequencies of said identifiers of respective objects in said set. 22. A method according to claim 1, comprised in either one of a group comprising a game and a simulation. 23. A device for detecting physical objects, each object having a detectable identifier, the objects being for disposal on an electronically refreshable graphic display device capable of serving as a visual background for placement of said physical objects, the apparatus comprising: a detecting unit placed about said electronically refreshable graphic display device, operable to detect a location of said identifier relative to said electronically refreshable graphic display device, and to output a signal bearing information of said location, and a transparent conducting foil, for embedding conductors of said detecting unit, located on an upper surface of said electronically refreshable display device, wherein said device is operable to determine, by electronic processing, from said signal, a relative location of said physical object in relation to said electronically refreshable graphic display device, and wherein said upper surface of said electronically refreshable graphic display device comprises an electronically active display surface on which said objects are locatable. 24. A device according to claim 23, wherein there is provided a set of physical objects to he detected and said identifier is unique to each physical object within said set. 25. A device according to claim 23, wherein said detecting unit is a camera and said electronic processing comprises image processing. 26. A device according to claim 25, wherein said identifier is a visually sensible mark. 27. A device according to claim 26, wherein said visually sensible mark is selected for effectiveness in conjunction with an image processing algorithm being used. 28. A device according to claim 23, wherein said identifier is a resonant circuit having a resonant frequency. 29. A device according to claim 28, wherein there is provided a set of physical objects to ba detected, each object having a unique resonant frequency. 30. A device according to claim 28, having a grid laid out over said graphic display device, said grid comprising conductors. 31. A device according to claim 30, said conductors being embedded in said transparent foil. 32. A device according to claim 31, said conductors being embedded in two transparent foils. 33. A device according to claim 30, wherein first set of conductors in said grid serve as transmitter conductors to transmit signals tuned to cause resonance in a correspondingly tuned physical object, and a second set of conductors serve as receivers of resonance signals from a closely located physical object, thereby enabling said device to locate a physical object. 34. A device according to claim 33, wherein said first set of conductors is embedded in a first transparent foil and said second set of conductors is embedded in a second transparent foil. 35. A device according to claim 34, further comprising at least one electro-optical sensor for detecting the position of at least one of said foils on said graphic display device. 36. A device according to claim 30, further having a coil surrounding said graphic display device, said coil being operable to transmit a signal able to cause in resonance in a physical object, said grid being operable to pick up said resonance via conductors close to said resonating physical object and thereby to locate said physical object. 37. A device according to claim 36, said signal being able to cause resonance in physical objects having a range of resonant frequencies. 38. A device according to claim 37, said signal being a wide band signal. 39. A device according to claim 37, said signal comprising a train of short pulses. 40. A device according to claim 37, said signal comprising a series of frequencies corresponding to resonant frequencies of said identifiers of respective objects in said set. 41. A device according to claim 40, wherein said electronic processing comprises identifying frequencies appearing on individual conductors of said grid following issuance of said signal. 42. A device according to claim 41, wherein said electronic processing comprises a first Fourier transform. 43. A device according to claim 41, wherein the frequencies of said physical objects are known, and said electronic processing comprises frequency correlation. 44. A device according to claim 43, having unique storage positions for each physical object. 45. A device according to claim 43, wherein there is provided a set of physical objects to be detected, the device comprising device following functionality, operable to infer from knowledge of a previous position of a first physical object, knowledge of at least one rule for said physical object, and a detected position of said set of physical objects following a move, the current position of said first physical object. 46. A device according to claim 43 further comprising at least one sensible die for selecting a score based on its orientation, wherein said detecting unit is operable to determine the orientation of said die, said device thereby being operable to deduce said score. 47. A device according to claim 46, wherein said sensible die comprises a plurality of resonant circuits each one being associated with a different orientation of said die and being activated when said die is in the respective orientation, and wherein said detecting unit is operable to detect said resonant frequency. 48. A device according to claim 47, wherein said sensible die comprises a weighted switch for selecting between said resonant circuits based on said orientation of said die. 49. A device according to claim 43, when used in association with a game utilizing at least one die, wherein said device comprises a score deducer for deducing a score shown by said at least one die from a detected move of said objects. 50. A device according to claim 43, further comprising an interface module for interfacing with the detecting unit. 51. A device according to claim 50, wherein said interface module is part of an operating system. 52. A sensible die for use with an electronic game platform, said die having a plurality of orientations and a score associated with each orientation, the die comprising a plurality of signal generating circuits each one being for generating a signal for remote detection and being associated with one of said orientations of said die and being selectable for signal generation when said die is in the respective orientation. 53. A sensible die according to claim 52, comprising a weighted switch for selecting between said signal generating circuits based on said orientation of said die and thereby associating each one of said signal generating circuits with a respective orientation. 54. A sensible die according to claim 53, wherein said signal generating circuits are resonant circuits. 55. A sensible die according to claim 54, wherein each said resonant circuit is operable to resonate at a different frequency, thereby indicating said orientation of said die. 56. Method according to claim 1, further comprising: triggering said identifier to output an identifying signal substantially about said detecting unit, waiting for a predetermined delay, detecting said identifying signal at said detecting unit, and analyzing said detection, thereby to deduce said location and identification of said at least one object. 57. Method according to claim 1, further comprising combining said determined location with determined location information obtained remotely over a network. 58. Method according to claim 56, wherein said detecting unit comprises two sets of generally parallel conductive lines substantially orthogonal to each other. 59. Apparatus for detecting at least one of a plurality of physical objects, placed over an electronic display, each of said objects comprising an identifier comprising a resonant circuit having a predetermined resonant frequency within a predetermined frequency range, the apparatus comprising: a sensing surface placed about said electronic display, having two sets of generally parallel conductive lines substantially orthogonal to each other and being electrically isolated from one another; an excitation coil located substantially about said conductive lines to define a detection area therewithin; a signal generator for supplying electromagnetic energy signals comprising at least one frequency within said predetermined frequency range to said excitation coil; and a detecting unit, associated with said two sets of conductive lines, for detecting electromagnetic energy at a frequency within said predetermined frequency range on said two sets of conductive lines, whereby a respective electromagnetic energy signal is operable to activate at least one of said physical objects, to resonate at a respective frequency to induce a response in said two sets of conductive lines, said detecting unit being operable to wait for a predetermined delay time after issuance by said signal generator of respective signals, to detect said response, and to analyze said response at both said two sets of conductive lines to identify a location and identity of said physical object, in relation to said electronic display. 60. Apparatus according to claim 59, further being for detecting a plurality of physical objects, each having a respective resonant frequency, said electromagnetic energy signal being a composite signal comprising a range of frequencies and said detecting unit comprising a transform unit to transform a response to said composite signal into the frequency domain, thereby to distinguish responses of different physical objects respectively. 61. Apparatus according to claim 59, wherein said graphic display device comprises an active display. 62. Apparatus according to claim 59, wherein said two sets of conductive lines in said electronic board are patterned on at least one transparent foil. 63. A method of detecting at least one of a set of physical objects, placed at a location over a graphic display device, each of said objects comprising an identifier, the method comprising: placing at least one of said objects at a respective location on said graphic display device, emitting a triggering signal from a triggering unit substantially about said graphic display device, emitting an identifying signal from said object in response to said triggering signal, waiting for a predetermined delay, detecting said identifying signal at two sets of generally parallel conductive lines substantially orthogonal to each other, formed from a transparent conductive foil and located on a sensing surface located about said graphic display device, and analyzing said detection, thereby to deduce said location and identification of said at least one object on said graphic display device. 64. Method according to claim 63, wherein each object has a respective resonant frequency, said signal being a composite signal comprising a range of frequencies, the method further comprising transforming said response into the frequency domain, thereby to distinguish responses of different physical objects respectively. 65. Method according to claim 63, wherein said detection at said two sets of generally parallel conductive lines substantially orthogonal to each other is carried out simultaneously. 66. The apparatus of claim 59, wherein one of said physical objects is internally powered. 67. The apparatus of claim 59, wherein one of said physical objects is one of a group comprising a game piece, a simulation piece and a pointer. 68. The apparatus of claim 59, wherein said graphic display device comprises a flat screen graphic display device. 69. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising a token moving subsystem able to move at least one of said physical objects in the vicinity of said graphic display device. 70. The apparatus of claim 59, further comprising at least one sensible die for selecting a score based on orientation thereof, wherein said detecting unit is further operable to determine said orientation, thereby to ascertain said score. 