A joint may have a multi-stage planetary gearbox between the stationary housing and the rotary housing. To accommodate different gear ratios, the rotary housing may be joined to the stationary housing by a releasable attachment. This allows portions of the planetary gearbox to be replaced so that, for instance, the last stage may be chosen as either a simple or compound differential planetary stage. To allow for different capacities, a quotient of a sum of all teeth of a sun gear of a stage and of the ring gear with which the planetary gears of the stage mesh to both the number three and the number four yields an integer. In this way, the stage may be provided with either three or four planetary gears. The gearbox may have a ring gear common to a plurality of simple planetary stages. Where the final stage is a simple planetary stage, the carrier may be provided with a flange extending around, and bearing mounted to, the common ring gear. To reduce weight and increase robustness, the planetary gears of a stage are retained on their carrier by a bumper ring provided between carriers. An angle sensor may be provided between the stationary and rotary housings.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A joint comprising: a stationary housing; a rotary housing joined to said stationary housing by a releasable attachment, said releasable attachment permitting said rotary housing to rotate relative to said stationary housing; a motor carried by said stationary housing; a multi-stage planetary gearbox having a first stage sun gear motivated by said motor, said gearbox terminating at said rotary housing, such that, by releasing said releasable attachment, said rotary housing, and at least a portion of said multi-stage planetary gearbox, may be removed. 2. The joint of claim 1 wherein, for a plurality of stages of said multi-stage gearbox, a sun gear of one stage meshes with three or four planetary gears of said one stage, where a quotient of a sum of all teeth of said one stage sun gear and of a ring gear with which said one stage planetary gears mesh to both the number three and the number four yields an integer value. 3. The joint of claim 1 wherein a last stage of said gearbox is one of a simple planetary stage and a compound differential planetary stage and wherein stages other than said last stage are common to said gearbox when having said simple planetary last stage and when having said compound differential planetary last stage. 4. The joint of claim 1 wherein said gearbox has a ring gear which is common to a plurality of stages. 5. The joint of claim 1 wherein said gearbox has a common annular element with one or more toothed sections providing a ring gear for a plurality of stages of said multi-stage gearbox such that said annular element, in unison with planetary and sun gears of said gearbox, provides radial stability to said planetary and sun gears without need for an axle. 6. The joint of claim 1 further comprising a bumper ring extending between a cater for one stage of said gearbox and an adjacent carrier for a next stage of said gearbox, said bumper ring being rotatable at least with respect to said next stage carrier, said bumper ring overlapping with planetary gears of said next stage in order to retain said planetary gears on said next stage carrier. 7. The joint of claim 1 wherein said multi-stage planetary gearbox comprises simple planetary stages and wherein said rotary housing is a cater for planetary gears of a last stage of said gearbox. 8. The joint of claim 1 wherein stages of said multi-stage planetary gearbox comprise simple planetary stages and wherein a last stage of said gearbox is a compound differential planetary stage, an output ring gear of which moves with said rotary housing. 9. The joint of claim 8 wherein, for each stage of said multi-stage gearbox, a sun gear of one stage meshes with three or four planetary gears of said one stage, where a quotient of a sum of all teeth of said one stage sun gear and of a ring gear with which said one stage planetary gears mesh to both the number three and the number four yields an integer value. 10. The joint of claim 1 wherein said releasable attachment comprises a gapped ring releasably fitted to one of said rotary housing and said stationary housing. 11. The joint of claim 1 further comprising an angle sensor mounted between said stationary housing and said rotary housing. 12. The joint of claim 11 wherein said angle sensor comprises a tooted clement joined to one of said stationary housing and said rotary housing and a sensing member joined to another of said stationary housing and said rotary housing, said sensing member having a gear meshing with said toothed element. 13. The joint of claim 1 wherein, for a plurality of stages of said multi-stage gearbox, a sun gear of one stage meshes with a given number of planetary gears of said one stage, where a quotient of a sum of all teeth of said one stage sun gear and of a ring gear with which said one stage planetary gears mesh to both of two adjacent integer values, where one of said adjacent integer values is said given number, yields an integer value. 14. A planetary gearbox having a plurality of simple planetary stages with a common ring gear such that said common ring gear, in unison with planetary and sun gears of said gearbox, provides radial stability to said planetary and sun gears without need for an axle, wherein a final stage of said simple planetary stages has a carrier with a flange extending around, and bearing mounted to, said common ring gear. 15. A planetary gearbox, comprising: a bumper ring extending between a first carrier for a sun gear and a second carrier for planetary gears meshing with said sun gear, said bumper ring being rotatable at least with respect to said second carrier, said bumper ring overlapping with said planetary gears in order to retain said planetary gears on said second carrier; wherein each of said planetary gears is supported on a bushing; each said bearing is mounted on a projecting pin of said second carrier; said planetary gears comprise second planetary gears and further comprising first planetary gears supported by said first carrier on a side of said first carrier opposite said sun gear and further comprising a ring gear common to said first planetary gears and said second planetary gears; and said second carrier extends around at least a portion of said cowman ring gear so as to provide a rotary housing which rotates relative to said common ring gear. 16. The planetary gearbox of claim 15 wherein said rotary housing is bearing mounted to said common ring gear. 17. A planetary gearbox having a plurality of simple planetary stages with a common ring gear, a final stage of said simple planetary stages having a carrier with a flange extending around, and bearing mounted to, said common ring gear. 