A wafer track and lithography cluster tool for performing a series of processes with a scheduler which synchronizes all events in a substrate processing system. Events in the cluster tool are scheduled to occur at regular, periodic intervals, thereby improving throughput and quality. The scheduler also eliminates conflicts for transportation resources between modules in the cluster tool. Wafers are loaded into the cluster tool at a regular interval, referred to as a sending period. All events in the system are synchronized with the sending period, and all event timings are normalized in terms of the sending period. The conflicts are resolved by selectively adding delays in modules which can tolerate them without degrading throughput or performance in the system; modules that cannot tolerate delays are exempted. The periodicity of the scheduled cluster tool enables the identification of wafers in the cluster tool. The identification of the order in which a wafer was loaded also identifies a module path followed by the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of optimizing throughput and performance in a wafer processing system comprising the following steps: selecting a wafer track and lithographic projection apparatus cluster that includes a plurality of transportation resources for transporting semiconductor wafers between: a wafer track portion a lithographic projection portion within the cluster; and a plurality of modules within the wafer track portion for processing the semiconductor wafers in a predetermined sequence; fixing a constant sending period for sequentially dispatching the semiconductor wafers into the wafer track, the sending period remaining fixed throughout the sequence of semiconductor wafers; expressing times for pickup of a semiconductor wafer from an ith module, (.tau.i), in units of the sending period; expressing a plurality of times (.tau.i) allotted for a wafer transporter to arrive at a module from initiation of a current sending period for transportation of the semiconductor wafer from a module i to a module i+1 as a portion of the sending period; and selectively incrementing at least one in the plurality of times (.tau.i) to arrive at a solution of times (.tau.i) that remains fixed at constant values throughout the sequence of the semiconductor wafers, the solution of times (.tau.i) assuring availability of the plurality of transportation resources. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modified times (.tau.i) are updated to accommodate changes in wafer processing system parameters. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modified times (.tau.i) are updated in real-time. 4. An apparatus for scheduling allocation of a plurality of transportation resources between modules within a wafer track/stepper cluster for a sequential wafer manufacturing process comprising: a memory resource for storing an algorithm for scheduling the plurality of transportation resources for movement of wafers within the wafer track and between the wafer track and stepper; a central processing unit coupled to the memory resource; and an input/output interface coupled to at least one of the central processing unit and the memory resource, the input/output interface adapted, respectively, to input parameters describing the sequential wafer manufacturing process and to output schedules for allocation of transportation resources to transport wafers within the wafer track and between the wafer track and stepper, the output schedules assuring availability of transportation resources and determined such that a sending period and a plurality of times (.tau.i) allotted for a wafer transporter to arrive at a module from initiation of a current sending period for transportation of a wafer from a module i to a module i+1 for the sequential wafer manufacturing process remain fixed at constant values throughout a sequence of wafers. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the memory resource and the central processing unit are external to the transportation resources. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the algorithm identifies at least one critical module that should not incur delays and exempts the at least one module from the addition of delays. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the algorithm employs a linear transformation to determine the appropriate delays to eliminate conflicts for the plurality of transportation resources. 8. A method for synchronizing a wafer processing system comprising the following steps: selecting a wafer processing system that includes a clustered wafer track system and lithography apparatus with one or more ordered sequence of modules; setting a constant sending period of the sequential processing system that remains fixed throughout a sequence of wafers, the constant sending period equaling an inverse of a sending rate; and expressing a plurality of times allotted for a plurality of wafer transporters to arrive at corresponding modules of the one or more ordered sequence of modules as a plurality of portions of the sending period, each and every time allotted for the plurality of wafer transporters remaining fixed at a constant value throughout a sequence of wafers. 