A substrate holding mechanism which is particularly adaptable to automatically centering a semiconductor wafer on a platen spider as the wafer is lowered from a wafer loading and unloading position to a wafer processing position in a medium current implanter such as a Varian EHP500. Upon subsequent placement of a mechanical clamp on the wafer to hold the wafer on the platen, the clamp fingers of the clamp engage the edge of the wafer with substantially uniform pressure to prevent micro-cracking or fracturing of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate holding mechanism having an auto-centering device for centering a substrate, said substrate holding mechanism comprising: a platen; a platen spider selectively extendible from said platen and selectively positional between an upper position and a lower position; at least three auto-centering arms engaging said platen spider, said at least three auto-centering arms having substantially equal lengths; wherein said at least three auto-centering arms are disposed in an outwardly-extending configuration when said platen spider is disposed in said upper position and move in concert with each other to an inwardly-extended configuration when said platen spider moves to said lower position; a centering finger carried by each of said at least three auto-centering arms for engaging the substrate when said platen spider is in said lower position; wherein each of said at least three auto-centering arms is a flexible, resilient material and further comprising at least three arm supports provided on said platen for supporting said at least three auto-centering arms, respectively; and at least three arm rollers provided in said platen and wherein said at least three auto-centering arms slidably engages said at least three arm rollers, respectively. 2. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein said platen spider comprises at least three spider arms. 3. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein said platen spider comprises at least three spider arms. 4. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 1 comprising an arm groove provided in each of said at least three arm supports, and wherein said each of said at least three auto-centering arms is slidably mounted in said arm groove. 5. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein said platen spider comprises at least three spider arms. 6. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 1 further comprising an arm hinge provided on said platen spider and wherein each of said at least three auto-centering arms comprises a proximal arm segment pivotally attached to said platen spider at said arm hinge and a distal arm segment pivotally attached to said proxmial arm segment, and wherein said centering finger is carried by said distal arm segment. 7. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 6 wherein said platen spider comprises at least three spider arms. 8. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 1 wherein said platen spider comprises at least three spider arms. 9. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 1 comprising an arm groove provided in each of said at least three arm supports, and wherein said each of said at least three auto-centering arms is slidably mounted in said arm groove. 10. The substrate holding mechanism of claim 9 wherein said platen spider comprises at least three spider arms. 