Disclosed herein is a laser welding system having a travel path to carry a first blank and a second blank. An upstream clamp assembly and a downstream clamp assembly are positioned on the travel path and each of the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies are movable to an open position to allow the first blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly to a first location within the downstream clamp assembly. A laser welding source is directed at a weld location on the travel path between the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies. At least one locating means is operable to locate the first weld edge adjacent the weld location. A first displacement means displaces the first weld edge against the locating means. The downstream clamp assembly is movable from the open position to a closed clamped position to clamp the first blank with the first weld edge adjacent the weld location. The locating means is operable to be withdrawn from the travel path. The upstream clamp assembly is movable from the open position to an intermediate position, which is selected to guide the second blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly in a substantially coplanar relationship with the first blank so that the second weld edge makes contact with, but not past, the first weld edge. A second displacement means displaces the second blank to a location adjacent the weld location where the second weld edge abuts the first weld edge. The upstream clamp assembly is movable from the intermediate position to a closed clamped position to clamp the second blank and the the laser welding source is operable to fuse the first and second weld edges blanks together.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding system, comprising: travel path to carry a first blank and a second blank in downstream direction, the first blank having a first weld edge and the second blank having a second weld edge, for a weld seam to be formed along the first and second weld edges; an upstream clamp assembly and a downstream clamp assembly positioned on the travel path; each of the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies being movable to an open position to allow the first blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly to a first location within the downstream clamp assembly; a welding source directed at a weld location on the travel path between the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies; a least one locating means operable in one phase to interrupt the travel path and to locate the first weld edge adjacent the weld location; first displacement means to reverse the direction of the first blank and to displace the first weld edge in an upstream direction against the locating means; the downstream clamp assembly being movable from the open position to a closed clamped position to clamp the first blank with the first weld edge adjacent the weld location; the locating means being operable to be withdrawn from the travel path; the upstream clamp assembly having an upper clamp portion defining an upper clamp surface and a lower clamp portion defining a lower clamp surface, wherein the upper and lower clam surfaces are adjacent one another, the upper clamp portion being movable relative to the lower clamp portion in a direction transverse to the travel path from the open position to an intermediate position, the intermediate position being selected by a predetermined spacing between the adjacent clamp surfaces to guide the second blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly in a substantially coplanar relationship with the first blank so that the second weld edge makes contact with, but not past, the first weld edge; second displacement means to displace the second blank along the travel path to a location adjacent the weld location here the second weld edge abuts the first weld edge; the upstream clamp assembly being movable from the intermediate position to a closed clamped position to clamp the second blank; the welding unit operable to fuse the first and second weld edges of the blanks together. 2. A system as defined in claim 1, further comprising first and second lateral positioning means for respectively positioning the first and second blanks relative to the travel path. 3. A system as defined in claim 2 wherein each blank has a pair of side edges, and wherein each lateral positioning means includes (i) a pair of lateral abutment members, each for engaging a corresponding side edge, and (ii) a lateral servo positioner for positioning each lateral abutment member. 4. A system as defined in claim 3, further comprising lateral control means for incrementally controlling the lateral servo positioners. 5. A system as defined in claim 4 wherein each of the lateral abutment members includes an upwardly directed flange and a plurality of stop members mounted on the flange. 6. A system as defined in claim 1, wherein each of the clamp assemblies includes an upper clamp beam and a lower clamp beam, a plurality of clamp elements fastened to the upper beam and a clamp drive unit for displaying the upper clamp beam relative to the lower clamp beam between the open and closed positions. 7. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein the first displacement means includes at least one first engagement portion for engaging the first blank and a first drive portion for driving the first engagement portion. 8. A system as defined in claim 7 wherein the first engagement portion includes a first engagement member for engaging an edge on the first blank opposite the first weld edge, and wherein the first drive portion includes a first servo positioner which is aligned for movement along the travel path for displacing the first engagement member; and further comprising first control means for incrementally controlling the first servo positioner. 9. A system as defined in claim 8 wherein the first engagement member includes an upwardly directed flange and a blank abutment member mounted on the flange. 10. A system as defined in claim 9, further comprising a first actuator unit for actuating the blank abutment member between an operable position in the travel path and an inoperable position below the travel path. 11. A system as defined in claim 1, wherein the second displacement means includes at least one second engagement portion for engaging the second blank and a second drive portion for driving the second engagement portion. 12. A system as defined in claim 11 wherein the second engagement portion includes a second engagement member for engaging an edge of the second blank opposite the second weld edge, and wherein the second drive port on includes a second servo positioner which is aligned for movement along the travel path for displacing the second engagement member; and further comprising second control means for incrementally controlling the second servo positioner. 13. A system as defined in claim 12 wherein the second engagement member includes an upwardly directed flange and a blank abutment member mounted on the flange. 14. A system as defined in claim 13, further comprising a second actuator unit for actuating the blank abutment member between an operable position in the travel path and an inoperable position below the travel path. 15. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein the locating means includes (i) a locating member movable between an operable position in the travel path and a inoperable position below the travel path, and (ii) a locating drive assembly for driving the locating member between the operative and inoperative positions. 16. A system as defined in claim 15, wherein the locating drive assembly further comprises a carriage ember mounted for lateral movement relative to the travel path on a third servo positioner, the carriage supporting a vertically oriented actuator with an output shaft couple to the locating member, and third control means for incrementally controlling the third servo positioner. 17. A method of welding a pair of blanks, comprising: a step for providing a travel path to carry a first blank and a second blank in a downstream direction; a step for providing an upstream clamp assembly and a downstream clamp assembly positioned on the travel path, wherein the upstream clam assembly has an upper clamp portion and a lower clam portion, the upper and lower clamp portions having adjacent upper and lower clam surfaces respectively; a step for opening the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies; a step for conveying a first blank along the travel path and through the upstream clamp assembly to the downstream clamp assembly; a step for positioning a welding unit at a weld location between the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies; a step for interrupting the travel path at the weld location with at least one blank locator; a step for reversing the direction of travel of the first blank and displacing the first blank until its trailing to-be-welded edge abuts the locator; a step for clamping the downstream clamp assembly to clamp the first blank in its position against the locator; a step for withdrawing the locator from the travel path; a step for moving the upstream clamp assembly to an intermediate position, wherein the upper and lower clamp portions cooperate to guide the second blank and wherein the upper clamp portion moves relative to the lower clamp portion in a direction transverse to the travel path from the open position to an intermediate position with a predetermined spacing between the upper and lower clamp surfaces; a step for conveying a second blank along the travel path to the upstream clamp assembly; a step for displacing the second blank until its leading to-be-welded edge makes edge-to-edge contact with, the trailing to-be-welded edge of the first blank, wherein the predetermined spacing is selected to prevent the second blank from passing over the first blank; a step for closing the upstream clamp assembly; and a step for operating the welding unit to form a weld seam along the abutting edges of the first and second blanks. 18. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein the step of withdrawing the locator from the travel path is carried out just before the arrival of the second blank at the upstream clamp assembly. 19. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein, in the step of moving the upstream clamp assembly to an intermediate position, the upper clamp portion is constrained to movement substantially perpendicular to the travel path. 20. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein, in the step for closing the upstream clamp assembly, the upper lamp portion is constrained to movement substantially perpendicular to the travel path. 21. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein the clamp assembly is operable to maintain the adjacent clamp surfaces substantially parallel to one another in the open, intermediate and closed positions. 22. A method as defined in claim 17 wherein the adjacent clamp surfaces are maintained substantially parallel to one another in the open, intermediate and closed positions. 23. A system as defined in claim 1 wherein the upstream clamp assembly includes a clamp drive unit having a pair of actuating cylinders, a first of the pair of actuating cylinders having an end-to-end displacement equals a distance from the open position to the intermediate position, and a second of the pair of actuating cylinders having an end-to-end displacement equals a distance from the intermediate position to the closed position. 24. A clamp device for a laser welding line, comprising: a travel path to carry a thick blank and a thin blank in a downstream direction; a upstream clamp assembly and a downstream clamp assembly positioned on the travel path; the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies being movable to an open position to allow the thick blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly to a first location within the downstream clamp assembly; at least one locating means operable to interrupt the travel path at a second location between the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies after the thick blank has arrived at the firs location; first displacement means to reverse the direction of the thick blank and to displace the thick blank from the first location in an upstream direction to a third location with its trailing to-be-welded edge abutting the locating means; the downstream clamp assembly being movable from the open position to a closed clamped position to clamp the thick blank in the third position; the locating means being operable to be removed from the travel path after the downstream clamp assembly is in its doped clamped position; the upstream clamp assembly having an upper clamp portion defining an upper clamp surface and a lower clamp portion defining a lower clamp surface, wherein the upper and lower clamp surfaces are adjacent one another, the upper clamp port on being movable relative to the lower clamp portion in a direction transverse to the travel path from the open position to an intermediate position, which is selected to constrain the thin blank to pass through the upstream lamp assembly in a substantially coplanar relationship with the thick blank and to make edge to edge contact therewith, but not past the trailing edge of the thick black; second displacement means for displacing the thin blank along the travel path to a fourth location with its leading to be-welded edge in abutment with the trailing to-be-welded edge of the thick blank; and the upstream clamp assembly being movable from the intermediate position to a closed clamped position to clamp the thin blank in the fourth position. 25. A device as defined in claim 24 wherein the first displacement means includes at least one engagement portion for engaging the thick blank and a drive portion for driving the engagement portion in order to deliver the thick blank to the third location. 26. A device as defined in claim 24 wherein the second displacement means includes at least one engagement portion for engaging the thin blank and a drive portion for driving the engagement portion in order to deliver the thin blank toward the fourth location. 27. A laser welding line assembly for welding a thick blank and a thin blank, comprising: a welding station positioned at a weld location on a travel path for welding a trailing edge on the thick blank to a leading edge on the thin blank to form a weld seam; a downstream clamp assembly located on a downstream side of the welding station to clamp the thick blank and an upstream clamp assembly located on an upstream side of the welding station to clamp the thin blank; the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies being operable in an open position to permit the thick blank to travel in a downstream direction along the travel path through the upstream clamp assembly and the welding station to the down stream clamp assembly; at least one locating means inoperable to interrupt the travel path adjacent the weld location; first displacement means to displace the thick blank upstream to abut the location means to be located at the weld location; the downstream clamp assembly being operable in a closed position to clamp the thick blank with the trailing edge at the weld location; the locating means being operable to be removed from the travel path after the downstream clamp assembly is in the doped position; the upstream clamp assembly having an upper clamp portion defining an upper clamp surface and a lower clamp portion defining a lower clamp surface, wherein the upper and lower clam surfaces are adjacent one another, the upper clamp port on being movable relative to the lower clamp portion in a direction transverse to the travel path from the open position to an intermediate position with a spacing sufficient to constrain the thin blank to travel along the travel path and through the upstream clamp assembly toward an edge to edge abutment position between the leading edge of the thin blank and the trailing edge of the thick blank; second displacement means to displace the thin blank downstream to a location adjacent the weld location to abut the leading edge of the thin blank with the trailing edge of the thick blank; and the upstream clamp assembly being operable in a closed position to clamp the thin blank with its leading edge in the abutment position at the weld location. 28. A method of preparing a pair of blanks for a laser welding line, comprising: a step for providing a travel path with an upstream clamp assembly and a downstream clamp assembly positioned thereon; a step for providing the upstream clamp assembly with an upper clamp portion and a lower clamp portion and with the upper and lower clamp portions having adjacent upper and lower clamp surfaces respectively; a step for delivering a thick blank and a thin blank to the travel path; a step for moving the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies to an open position to allow the thick blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly to a first location within the downstream clamp assembly; a step for initiating at least one locating means to interrupt the travel path at a second location between the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies after the thick blank has arrived at the first location; a step for reversing the direction of the thick blank and displacing the thick blank in an upstream direction from the first location to a third location with its trailing to-be-welded edge abutting the locating means; a step for moving the downstream clamp assembly from the open position to a closed clamped position to clamp the thick blank in the third position; a step for removing the locating means from the travel path after the downstream clamp assembly is in its closed clamped position; a step for moving the upstream clamp assembly in a direction transverse to the travel path from the open position to an intermediate position, which is selected to constrain the thin blank to pass through the upstream clamp assembly in a substantially coplanar relationship with the thick blank and to make edge to edge contact therewith; a step for displacing the thin blank to a fourth location with its leading to-be-welded edge in abutment with the trailing to-be-welded edge of the thick blank; and a step for moving the upstream clamp assembly from the intermediate position to a closed clamped position to clamp the thin blank in the fourth position. 29. A method as defined in claim 28 wherein the step of removing the locating means is carried out just before the arrival of the thin blank in the upstream clamp assembly. 30. A method as defined in claim 28 wherein, in the step of moving the upstream clamp assembly from the open position to the intermediate position, the upper clam is constrained to movement substantially perpendicular to the travel path. 31. A method as defined in claim 28 wherein, in the step for moving the upstream clamp assembly from the intermediate portion to the closed position, the upper clamp portion is constrained to movement substantially perpendicular to the travel path. 32. A method as defined in claim 28 wherein the adjacent clamp surfaces of the upstream clamp assembly are maintained substantially parallel to one another in the open, intermediate and closed positions. 33. A method of welding a pair of blanks, comprising: a step for providing a travel path to carry a first blank and a second blank in a downstream direction; a step for providing an upstream clamp assembly and a downstream clamp assembly positioned on the travel path, wherein the upstream clamp assembly has an upper clamp portion and a lower clamp portion, the upper and lower clamp portions having adjacent upper and lower clamp surfaces respectively; a step for opening the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies; a step for conveying a first blank along the travel path and through the upstream clamp assembly to the downstream clamp assembly; a step for positioning a welding unit at a weld location between the upstream and downstream clamp assemblies; a step for interrupting the travel path at the weld location with at least one blank locator; a step for reversing the direction of travel of the first blank and displacing the first blank until its trailing to-be-welded edge abuts the locator; a step for clamping the downstream clamp assembly to clamp the first blank in its position against the locator; a step for withdrawing the locator from the travel path; a step for moving the upstream clamp assembly to an intermediate position, wherein the upper and lower clamp portions cooperate to guide the second blank and wherein the upper clamp portion moves relative to the lower clamp portion in a direction transverse to the travel path from the open position to an intermediate position; a step for conveying a second blank along the travel path to the upstream clamp assembly; a step for displacing the second blank until its leading to-be-welded edge makes edge-to-edge contact with the trailing to-be-welded edge of the first blank, wherein at the intermediate position, the spacing between the upper and lower clamp portions is sufficient to constrain the second blank to travel through the upstream clamp assembly toward an edge to edge abutment position between the first and second blanks but not past the second blank; a step for closing the upstream clamp assembly; and a step for operating the welding unit to form a weld seam along the abutting edges of the first and second blanks. 34. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein the step of withdrawing the locator from the travel path is carried out just before the arrival of the second blank at the upstream clamp assembly. 35. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein, in the step of moving the upstream clamp assembly to an intermediate position, the upper clamp portion is constrained to movement substantially perpendicular to the travel path. 36. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein, in the step for closing the upstream clamp assembly, the upper clamp portion is constrained to movement substantially perpendicular to the travel path. 37. A method as defined in claim 33 wherein the adjacent clamp surfaces are maintained substantially parallel to one another in the open, intermediate and closed positions. 