Methods used in semiconductor electroplating systems, such as for plating copper, onto a semiconductor wafer or other semiconductor workpiece. The methods apply to patterned metal layers plated onto a seed layer which is partially protected by an overlying photoresist or other coating. The methods employ an electrode assembly which has a boot which seals about a contact face of the electrode. The sealing is performed by engaging the seal against photoresist to prevent corrosion of the seal layer. The area enclosed by the sealing includes a via which is surrounded by the seal. The electrode contact extends through the via to provide electrical contact with the metallic seed layer. Plating of copper or other metal proceeds at exposed seed layer areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A contact assembly for supplying electrical power to a microelectronic workpiece during electrochemical processing of the microelectronic workpiece, the contact assembly comprising: a workpiece holder configured to hold a workpiece face down; a plurality of electrical contacts arranged along a perimeter area of the microelectronic workpiece, wherein individual electrical contacts include a first section located outside of the perimeter area of the workplace and projecting generally downward below the face of the wafer, a second section projecting inwardly from the first section to perimeter area of the workpiece, and a contact face at an end of the second section for contacting a processing surface of the workpiece upon which electrochemical processing is to occur; and a yieldable sealing system proximate the electrical contacts and configured to press against the surface of the microelectronic workpiece as the microelectronic workpiece and the electrical contacts are brought into engagement with one another in a manner that forms a seal against the processing surface of the microelectronic workpiece and thereby inhibits processing fluid from contacting the contact faces of the contacts. 2. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein said electrical contacts are recessed with respect to the yieldable sealing system without a workpiece loaded in the contact assembly. 3. A contact assembly as claimed in claim 2 wherein the yieldable sealing system deforms during contact with the surface of the microelectronic workpiece. 