A radio controlled toy is provided with a robotic rider that catches waves via an electric motor and propeller, then rides waves like a real surfer, and rights itself after a wipeout comprising a novel way to rotate the robotic rider's upper torso and to disburse the motor room heat allowing for long run times.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radio controlled steerable self-propelled surfboard toy capable of moving on water comprised of: a posed robotic rider with a light upper body and an attached lower body; a motorized self propelled surfboard having a hull with sufficient buoyancy to keep the surfboard afloat on water, and having a general longitudinal axis, said surfboard having an upper surface said upper surface supporting said robotic rider and an under surface; a keelson molded to said under surface; a heat sink fitted into said keelson capable of transferring heat from an interior area of the hull to outside surroundings; a variable speed motor enclosed in said hull; a power source operatively connected to the motor; a radio wave signal allows an operator to continuously and differentially vary, at an operator's option any level of power supplied from the power source to the motor; a steering system which combines rudder movements turning in sync with movements of the upper and lower body of the robotic rider to shift weight of robotic rider from one side of the surfboard to another side of the surfboard by means of a two string roto-wing. 2. A radio controlled steerable self-propelled surfboard toy as claimed in claim 1 further comprising said posed robotic rider secured by one foot and pivotally attached by a second foot to said surfboard upper surface. 3. A radio controlled steerable self-propelled surfboard toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein said keelson assists in recovery of said surfboard to right said surfboard toy. 4. A radio controlled steerable surfboard toy as claimed in claim 1 wherein the radio wave signal is transmitted by an operator at a remote location from the surfboard, and a signal receiving means is incorporated in the surfboard and operatively associated with the power source and with the motor and the signal receiving means receives the radio wave signal and applyies power to the motor in conformance to the radio wave signal. 5. A radio controlled steerable surfboard toy according to claim 4 wherein a steering system makes the upper body of the robotic rider rotate to move in the same turning direction as the surfboard by means of pulling on one of two strings of the two string roto-wing. 6. A radio controlled steerable surfboard toy according to claim 1 wherein the upper surface is water proof by means of a sponge gasket and securing screws. 7. A radio controlled steerable surfboard toy according to claim 1 having a small centered rudder and two towed-in side fins on the under surface of said surfboard. 8. A radio controlled steerable surfboard toy according to claim 1 wherein having a flat semi concave prop wash area and a down turned tail on said under surface of said surfboard. 9. A radio controlled steerable surfboard toy according to claim 4 having two servos for steering working in sync via a "Y" shaped harness allowing both servos to receive simultaneous command signals. 10. A radio controlled steerable self-propelled surfboard toy according to claim 1 having a high torque body movement servo that is water proofed by a grease reservoir at a powershaft. 