A system for performing minimally invasive medical procedures. This system includes one or more robotic arms that can be attached to the operating table. The robotic arms can be controlled by input devices such as handles and a foot pedal to perform a minimally medical procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system, comprising: at least two robotic arms; at least one handle; a controller coupled to said robotic arms and said handle, wherein movement at a handle produces a movement at a corresponding robotic arm; and means for switching connections between a handle of the controller and said robotic arms such that at least one handle may control either robotic arm. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the means for switching comprises a voice recognizer. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the means for switching comprises a switching device. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least two surgical instruments coupled to the respective at least two robotic arms. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein each surgical instrument comprises one of the following: a grasper, a coagulator, and a scalpel. 6. A medical robotic system, comprising: at least two robotic arms; at least one handle; a controller electrically coupled to said handle and said robotic arms, said controller detects movement of said handle and generates one or more signals to provide movement of said robotic arms; and a switch coupled to said handle and said robotic arms to allow at least one handle to control either robotic arm. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the switch comprises a multiplexer. 8. The system of claim 6 further comprising at least two surgical instruments coupled to said two robotic arms. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein each surgical instrument comprises one of the following: a grasper, a coagulator, and a scalpel. 10. The system of claim 6, wherein said at least one handle is mounted to a cabinet. 11. The system of claim 6 wherein said at least one handle is mounted to a handle stand. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said handle stand adjusts a height and the tilt of the at least one handle. 