Physical objects, including still and moving images, are transformed into more compact forms for identification and other purposes using a method unrelated to existing image-matching systems which rely on feature extraction. An auxiliary construct, preferably a warp grid, is associated with an image, and a series of transformations are imposed to generate a unique visual key for identification, comparisons, and other operations. Search methods are also disclosed for matching an unknown image to one previously represented in a visual key database. Broadly, a preferred search method sequentially examines candidate database images for their closeness of match in a sequential order determined by their a priori match probability. Thus, the most likely match candidate is examined first, the next most likely second, and so forth. With respect to the recognition of video sequences and other information streams, inventive holotropic stream recognition principles are deployed, wherein the statistics of the spatial distribution of warp grid points is used to generate index keys. The invention is applicable to various fields of endeavor, including governmental, scientific, industrial, commercial, and recreational object identification and information retrieval.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of converting an image into a compact form for comparisons and other purposes, comprising the steps of: a) providing an image; b) associating a grid of points with the image, each point having an initial position; c) transforming the set using one or more attributes of the image by warping the grid such that some or all of the points move from their initial positions to different positions, thereby generating a unique key representative of the image. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the image is a still picture. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the image forms part of a sequence portraying motion. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set points is a grid having an initial position. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the transformation warps the grid, thereby moving some or all of the points to different positions. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the key is based on the initial and different positions of the points. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the key uses the vector sum of the movements made by each point during the transformation thereof for comparison. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the attributes of the image include one or more of the image size, shape, position, orientation, composition, color, or intensity. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the attributes of the image are sampled at the different positions of the grid. 10. The method of claim 1, further including the step of storing the key in a database. 11. The method of claim 1, further including the step of storing supplemental information related to the image in the database. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the supplemental information is content-related, contextual, or visually representational of the image. 13. The method of claim 10, further including the steps of: providing a second image; performing steps b) and c) on the second image to generate a second key; and comparing the second key with the key in the database to determine if the images are similar. 14. The method of claim 1, further including the steps of: performing steps b) and c) on a plurality of images to generate a key for each; storing the keys in a database; providing a search image; performing steps b) and c) on the search image to generate a search key; and comparing the search key to the keys stored in the database to determine if the search image is among the plurality. 15. The method of claim 14, further including the steps of: sequentially ordering the keys in the database in accordance with a predetermined match probability prior to the step of comparing the search key. 16. The method of claim 1, including the step of deriving the image from a book, periodical or other printed matter. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the image is derived using a camera, scanner, or other apparatus operative to convert an image into electronic form. 18. The method of claim 13, including the step of deriving the search image from another database, software application, hyperlink or web page. 19. The method of claim 1, further including the steps of: providing a plurality of images in the form of sequential frames portraying motion; and analyzing the statistics of the construct transformations associated with the images to generate the keys. 20. The method of claim 16, further including the step of: providing a search image; and determining if the search image is contained in one of the frames using a dynamic decision tree that changes in accordance with the statistical likelihood of a match. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the frames, search image, or both are derived from a video or other form of motion picture. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the image may not be reconstructed from the key. 23. A method of associating with an image a measurement vector, comprising the steps of: a) superimposing a lattice of grid points over the image; b) associating with each grid point in the lattice a subset of grid points that constitute its connectivity pattern; c) sampling the image at each lattice grid point to obtain a local measurement of the image; d) adapting the positions of each of the lattice grid points in the image based upon the positions and sampled measurements of each grid point in its connectivity pattern; and e) iteratively repeating steps (c) and (d) until lattice grid point positions achieve equilibrium and remain essentially unchanged in position with further iterations or iteratively repeating steps (c) and (d) a fixed number of times sufficient to achieve near equilibrium of lattice grid points and (f) preparing a measurement vector of the displacements of all the iteratively adapted lattice grid points from step (d) from their initial positions. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the step of superimposing a lattice of grid points over the image includes deforming the lattice to uniformly fill a quadrilateral resulting from perspective distortion of a rectangular image. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the connectivity pattern of a given grid point consists of all lattice grid points within a specified radius of the given grid point. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein sampling the image at each lattice grid point to obtain a local measurement of the image obtains the attributes of a sampled pixel in the image. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein adapting the position of a given lattice grid points is based upon the center of gravity of its connectivity pattern. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein adapting the position of a given lattice grid points is based upon the center of gravity of the grid points in its connectivity pattern weighted by their associated local image measurements. 29. The method of claim 23, wherein the lattice of grid points has the connection topology of a torus, connecting upper edge and left edge grid points to lower edge and right edge grid points, respectively. 