A wafer handling system and a method of retrofitting the system to an existing wafer handling apparatus are provided that make possible a method of handling wafers by contacting only a narrow area of not more than two millimeters wide adjacent the edge of the wafer, which is particularly useful for backside deposition where device side contact defines an area of exclusion that renders the wafer unusable in that area. The system provides a chuck on a wafer transfer arm that holds a wafer by gravity on a segmented, upwardly facing annular surface. A compatible annular surface is provided on an aligning station chuck so that wafers can be transferred by contact only with the exclusion area of the wafer surface. A load arm has two similarly compatible chucks further provided with pneumatically actuated grippers to allow the wafer to be loaded into a vertical processing apparatus. The wafer chucks are retrofitted into a processing apparatus in place of vacuum chucks and the vacuum lines that were provided to activate them are used for wafer detection. The electrical signals that were provided for vacuum chuck commands are utilized to actuate the grippers on the transfer arm so that no control software and little hardware need be altered for the retrofit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improvement kit for a semiconductor wafer handling system of a semiconductor wafer processing machine having (a) a cassette station for supporting a wafer cassette containing vertical stack of a plurality of horizontally disposed wafers, (b) an aligning station for centering a horizontally disposed wafer, (c) a transfer station, (d) a transfer arm for transferring individual wafers among the cassette station, the aligning station and a load arm at the transfer station, (e) a processing apparatus having a plurality of processing stations, including a load-lock station, disposed in a circle in a vertical plane, (f) a load arm for transferring wafers between a horizontal orientation on the transfer arm at the transfer station and a vertical orientation in the processing apparatus at the load lock station, to facilitate transporting semiconductor wafers having devices structure on a device side thereof for backside deposition in a processing station while limiting contact with the device side of the wafer to an exclusion area not more than two millimeters wide adjacent the edge of the wafer, the kit comprising: a transfer arm chuck mountable on the transfer arm; an aligning station chuck mountable at the aligning station; a load arm chuck mountable on the load arm; and each of the transfer arm, aligning station and load arm chucks having: a wafer support surface lying in a plane and formed of segments of an annular ring not more than 2 millimeters wide having a nominal diameter selected from the group consisting of 200 millimeters or 300 millimeters, an outside diameter at least as large as said nominal diameter and an inside diameter less than said nominal diameter; and each of the transfer arm and load arm chucks having: a bevel extending outwardly from the support surface in at least a plurality of angularly spaced sections adjacent the outside diameter of the annular ring on each of the segments thereof, the bevel being positioned to guide the edge of a wafer onto the support surface and to substantially restrict contact between the support surface of the chuck and the wafer to the exclusion area. 2. The kit of claim 1 wherein: the wafer support surface has an outside diameter at least 0.2 mm larger than said nominal diameter and an inside diameter at least 0.2 mm less than said nominal diameter. 3. The kit of claim 1 wherein: the wafer support surface of the transfer arm chuck lies in a horizontal plane and is upwardly facing; and the transfer arm chuck includes: a body mounted on the end of the transfer arm; the body having at least one of the segments of the annular ring thereon; at least two outrigger arms extending from the body, each outrigger arms having at least one of the segments of the annular ring at a remote end thereof; and the bevel of the transfer arm chuck extending upwardly from the outside diameter of the support surface on at least one of the sections of each of the body and outrigger arms. 4. The kit of claim 1 wherein: the wafer support surface of the transfer arm chuck lies in a horizontal plane and is upwardly facing; and the transfer arm chuck includes: a body mounted on the end of the transfer arm; at least two ceramic outrigger arms removably attached to the body and extending away from the body to a remote end thereof having at least one of the segments of the annular ring thereon; and the bevel of the transfer arm chuck extending upwardly from the outside diameter of the support surface on at least one of the sections of each of the body and the at least two ceramic outrigger arms. 5. The kit of claim 4 wherein each ceramic outrigger arm has a straight proximate end of trapezoidal cross-section fitted into a keyway in the body of the transfer arm chuck with parallel upper and lower surfaces, the upper of which is wider than the lower thereof. 6. The kit of claim 1 wherein the system includes: transfer arm chuck includes: vacuum ports positioned on the wafer supporting surface of the transfer arm chuck; and a wafer presence detector connected to the vacuum ports and responsive to the blocking of the vacuum ports by the exclusion zone of a wafer. 7. The kit of claim 1 wherein: the aligning station chuck has a wafer support surface lying in a plane and formed of segments of an annular ring not more than 2 millimeters wide having a nominal diameter selected from the group consisting of 200 millimeters or 300 millimeters, an outside diameter at least as large as said nominal diameter and an inside diameter less than said nominal diameter. 8. The kit of claim 7 wherein: the wafer support surface of the aligning station chuck lies in a horizontal plane and is upwardly facing; and the aligning station chuck has at least one recess thereon located between two sections of the supporting surface thereof to allow the outrigger arms of the transfer arm chuck to extend between a wafer lying on said supporting surface and said supporting surface of the aligning station chuck when placing a wafer on or pick a wafer up from the aligning station chuck. 9. The kit of claim 1 wherein: the wafer support surface of the aligning station chuck lies in a horizontal plane and is upwardly facing; and the aligning station chuck has at least one recess thereon located between two sections of the supporting surface thereof to allow the outrigger arms of the transfer arm chuck to extend between a wafer lying on said supporting surface and said supporting surface of the aligning station chuck when placing a wafer on or pick a wafer up from the aligning station chuck. 10. The kit of claim 1 wherein: the load arm chuck is mounted on the load arm of the machine and has: at least one recess thereon located between two sections of the supporting surface thereof to allow the outrigger arms of the transfer arm chuck to extend between a wafer lying on said supporting surface and said supporting surface of the load arm chuck when placing a wafer on or pick a wafer up from the load arm chuck, and a set of moveable locking elements operable, when engaged, to move against the backside of the wafer opposite the exclusion area thereof to clamp the wafer against the support surface of the load arm chuck and, when disengaged, to release the wafer. 11. The kit of claim 1 wherein the load arm chuck has at least one recess thereon located between two sections of the supporting surface thereof to allow the outrigger arms of the transfer arm chuck to extend between a wafer lying on said supporting surface and said supporting surface of the load arm chuck when placing a wafer on or pick a wafer up from the load arm chuck. 12. The kit of claim 1 wherein the load arm chuck has a set of moveable locking elements operable, when engaged, to move against the backside of the wafer opposite the exclusion area thereof to clamp the wafer against the support surface of the load arm chuck and, when disengaged, to release the wafer. 