An apparatus for transporting sample well trays with respect to a heating device is provided. The apparatus includes a sample well tray holder, a rotational actuator, and a biasing mechanism. The sample well tray holder includes a plate in which a sample well tray may be positioned. The sample well tray holder is configured to rotate about a first rotational axis. The rotational actuator is configured to rotate the sample well tray holder about the first rotational axis. The biasing mechanism is configured to urge the sample well tray holder in a generally upward direction along the first rotational axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for transporting sample well trays with respect to a heating device, comprising: a sample well tray holder comprising a plate for positioning a sample well tray therein, the sample well tray holder configured to rotate about a first rotational axis between a first position outside the heating device and a second position inside the heating device; a rotational actuator comprising a motor and a shaft attached to the motor, the rotational actuator being configured to rotate the sample well tray holder about the first rotational axis; and a biasing mechanism configured to urge the sample well tray holder in a generally upward direction along the first rotational axis, wherein the shaft attached to the motor is a spline shaft, the rotational actuator further comprising a spline bushing for engaging with the spline shaft so that the spline bushing is rotationally fixed but axially moveable relative to the spline shaft. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the motor is configured to rotate the sample well tray holder approximately ninety degrees. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the motor comprises a stepper motor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the spline bushing is rotationally fixed to the sample well tray holder. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising an extension arm for attaching the spline bushing to the sample well tray holder. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plate of the sample well tray holder includes a recess for positioning the sample well tray therein. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the recess is defined by tapered side walls for receiving the sample well tray, the tapered side walls configured so that the sample well tray rests on the tapered side walls. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the recess is rectangular. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the plate of the sample well tray holder includes a first portion having the recess and a second portion comprising an arm for connecting the first portion with the rotational actuator. 10. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the biasing mechanism comprises a helical spring positioned around the first rotational axis and surrounding a portion of the spline bushing. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a robot configured to grasp a sample well tray and transport the sample well tray to the sample well tray holder. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating device with an opening for the sample well tray to be placed therein. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating device for conducting thermal cycling. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the thermal cycling results in nucleic acid amplification. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample well tray comprises a 96-well microtiter tray. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample well tray comprises a 384-well microtiter tray. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein wells of the sample well tray are conical. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein wells of the sample well tray are sized to have a fluid volume in the range of 10 to 500 .mu.l. 19. A robotic manipulator for transporting sample well trays between at least a first position outside a heating device and a second position inside the heating device, comprising: a robotic arm having a sample well tray holder configured to support a sample well tray therein, the sample well tray holder comprising a recess for receiving the sample well tray; a rotational mechanism configured to impart rotational motion on the robotic arm so as to rotate the sample well tray holder between the first position and the second position inside the heating device, the rotational mechanism comprising a motor; and a biasing mechanism configured to provide force on the sample well tray holder in a direction away from an adjacent sample block, wherein the biasing mechanism comprises at least one helical spring positioned partially surrounding a shaft of the rotational mechanism. 20. The robotic manipulator of claim 19, further comprising a sleeve member positioned around the shaft of the rotational mechanism and partially surrounded by the helical spring, the sleeve member being rotationally fixed to the shaft of the rotational mechanism and axially slidable relative to the shaft, the biasing mechanism configured to urge the sleeve member in the direction away from the adjacent sample well block. 21. The robotic manipulator of claim 19, wherein the sleeve member comprises a spline bushing configured to engage a spline on the shaft of the rotational mechanism. 22. The robotic manipulator of claim 20, further comprising a stop member positioned on the shaft of the rotational mechanism, the stop member configured to prevent the sleeve member from axially moving beyond a predetermined position on the shaft of the rotational mechanism. 