A multiple laser optical sensing system and method for detecting target characteristics are disclosed. The system includes a laser source with at least two emission apertures from which laser signals are emitted. The system also includes at least one detector, which is operationally responsive to the laser source. Finally, the system includes a microprocessor that is operationally coupled to the detector(s). In operation, the laser source emits into an environment at least two laser signals, one from each emission aperture. The detector detects the laser signals after the signals pass through the environment, which is occupied by a target and the microprocessor determines target characteristics based on the laser signals received by the detector(s).
Claims The embodiments of an invention in which an exclusive property or right is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A multiple laser signal sensing system for detecting target characteristics within a room, comprising: a laser source adapted for operation by illumination through at least two apertures of an at least 2 aperture-by-at least 2 aperture array, said illumination there through thereby creating at least two laser signals; at least four emission apertures formed in an at least 2 aperture-by-at least 2 aperture array disposed between said laser source and said room; and at least one detector operationally responsive to receive laser signals from said room after said signals have passed through the at least two apertures; wherein said laser source emits light through said at least two apertures into a room occupied by a target thereby creating at least two laser signals, said at least one detector detects said at least two laser signals after said signals pass through said room, and a microprocessor coupled to said at least one detector determines characteristics of said target based on comparison of said at least two signals received by said detector with said target characteristics obtained from a memory. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said laser source is a vertical cavity surface emitting laser. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said detector is a closed-captioned camera. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said detector is a photodiode. 5. A laser signal sensing system for detecting target characteristics, comprising: a vertical cavity surface emitting laser structure including a two-by-at least two emission aperture arrangement disposed between said vertical cavity laser structure and an environment; and at least one detector adapted to receive from said environment optical signals provided by said vertical cavity surface emitting laser structure through at least one aperture of said two-by-two emission aperture arrangement into said environment; wherein said at least one detector receives optical signals after said optical signals pass through said environment, and a microprocessor coupled to said at least one detector determines characteristics of targets freely moving within said environment based on comparison of said optical signals received by said at least one detector with target characteristics obtained from a memory by the microprocessor. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said detector is a closed-captioned camera. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said detector is a photodiode. 8. A method for determining target characteristics, comprising the steps of: emitting at least two optical signals of diverse wavelengths from a vertical cavity surface emitting laser structure through at least one aperture of an at least 2 aperture-by-at least 2 aperture array into an open environment wherein targets can move freely; receiving optical signals transmitted from said open environment; and determining target characteristics based on absorptive qualities of targets moving freely within said open environment. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of determining target characteristics is also based on optical signals blocked by targets moving freely within said open environment. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of determining target characteristics is also based on optical signals reflected by targets moving freely within said open environment. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of determining target characteristics is also based on optical signals blocked or reflected by targets moving freely within said open environment. 12. A method for determining target characteristics, comprising the steps of: emitting at least two optical signals from a vertical cavity surface emitting laser structure through at least two apertures of an at least 2 aperture-by-at least 2 aperture array into an open environment wherein targets can move freely; receiving optical signals transmitted from said open environment; and determining target characteristics based on optical signals reflected by at least one target moving freely within said open environment. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of determining target characteristics is also based on optical signals not blocked by targets moving freely within said open environment. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of determining target characteristics is also based on optical signals blocked by targets moving freely within said open environment. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of determining target characteristics is also based on optical signals reflected by targets moving freely within said open environment. 