An applicator dispenses a pressurized fluid to a workpiece to be processed with an elongate housing having a first end and a second end. An enlarged annular flange extends radially from adjacent the first end of the housing and is connectable to a source of pressurized fluid. A tapered cone is formed on the second end to define a reduced diameter relative to the housing to enable streaming of the pressurized fluid to be applied. A separate mixer is positionable within the housing. Preferably, the mixer is moveable longitudinally with respect to the housing during use. The mixer includes a valve member connected to one end for movement relative to a valve seat defined by an inner surface of the cone. The valve member moveable between an opened position and a closed position. A piston is connected to an opposite end of the mixer from the cone to move the mixer longitudinally within the housing. The piston is moveable within a chamber between first and second end limits of movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An applicator for dispensing a pressurized fluid to a workpiece to be processed comprising: an elongate housing having a first end and a second end; a tapered cone formed on the second end to define a reduced diameter relative to the housing to enable streaming of the pressurized fluid to be applied; a static mixer positionable within the housing, the mixer moveable longitudinally between first and second positions with respect to the housing, such that fluid flow is blocked in response to the static mixer being in the second position while permitting fluid to flow when the mixer is spaced from the second position; and a piston connectible to an end of the mixer opposite from the cone of the housing to move the mixer longitudinally within the housing, the piston moveable within a chamber between first and second end limits of movement. 2. The applicator of claim 1 further comprising the housing, flange, and cone formed of steel material. 3. The applicator of claim 1 further comprising the housing, flange, and cone formed as a single, unitary, monolithic member. 4. The applicator of claim 1, wherein the mixer is a replaceable and disposable element. 5. The applicator of claim 1, wherein the mixer is formed of plastic material. 6. The applicator of claim 1, wherein the static mixer is held stationary with respect to the housing during use. 7. The applicator of claim 1 further comprising: the cone defining a valve seat along an inner surface adjacent the second end of the housing; and a valve member connected to an end of the moveable mixer for movement relative to the valve seat between an opened position and a closed position. 8. The applicator of claim 7, wherein the valve member is at least partially spherical in shape. 9. The applicator of claim 7, wherein the valve member is a conical plug. 10. The applicator of claim 7, wherein the valve member is a cylindrical plug. 11. The applicator of claim 1 further comprising: means for biasing the piston toward one of the first and second end limits of movement. 12. The applicator of claim 1 further comprising: a disposable shield operably engageable with the housing and encircling the second end to prevent the pressurized fluid from being slung away from the workpiece. 13. An applicator for dispensing a pressurized fluid to a workpiece to be processed comprising: an elongate housing having a first end and a second end; a separate mixer positionable within the housing, the mixer moveable longitudinally with respect to the housing; a static mixer positionable within the housing, the mixer moveable longitudinally between first and second positions with respect to the housing, such that fluid flow is blocked in response to the static mixer being in the second position while permitting fluid to flow when the mixer is spaced from the second position; a cone defining a valve seat along an inner surface adjacent the second end of the housing; a valve member connected to an end of the moveable mixer for movement relative to the valve seat between an opened position and a closed position; and a piston connected to an end of the mixer opposite from the cone of the housing to move the mixer longitudinally within the housing, the piston moveable within a chamber between first and second end limits of movement. 14. The applicator of claim 13, wherein the mixer is a replaceable and disposable element. 15. The applicator of claim 13, wherein the mixer is formed of plastic material. 16. The applicator of claim 13, wherein the static mixer is held stationary with respect to the housing during use. 17. The applicator of claim 13, wherein the valve member is at least partially spherical in shape. 18. The applicator of claim 13, wherein the valve member is a conical plug. 19. The applicator of claim 13, wherein the valve member is a cylindrical plug. 20. The applicator of claim 13 further comprising: means for biasing the piston toward one of the first and second end limits of movement. 21. The applicator of claim 13 further comprising: an enlarged annular flange extending radially from adjacent the first end of the housing and connectible to a source of pressurized fluid; and a tapered cone formed on the second end to define a reduced diameter relative to the housing to enable streaming of the pressurized fluid to be applied. 22. The applicator of claim 13 further comprising the housing, flange, and cane formed of steel material. 23. The applicator of claim 13 further comprising the housing, flange, and cone formed as a single, unitary, monolithic member. 24. An applicator for dispensing a pressurized fluid to a workpiece to be processed comprising: an elongate housing having an enlarged end and a constricted end; a static mixer positionable within the housing, the mixer moveable longitudinally between first and second positions with respect to the housing, such that fluid flow is blocked in response to the static mixer being in the second position while permitting fluid to flow when the mixer is spaced from the second position; and a piston connected to an end of the mixer opposite from the constricted end of the housing to move the mixer longitudinally within the housing. 25. The applicator of claim 24 further comprising: the piston moveable within a chamber between first and second end limits of movement. 26. The applicator of claim 24 further comprising: an enlarged annular flange extending radially from adjacent the first end of the housing and connectible to a source of pressurized fluid. 27. The applicator of claim 24 further comprising: a tapered cone formed on the second end to define a reduced diameter relative to the housing to enable streaming of the pressurized fluid to be applied. 