A chamber for transitioning a semiconductor substrate between modules operating at different pressures is provided. The chamber includes a base defining an outlet. The outlet permits removal of an atmosphere within the chamber to create a vacuum. A substrate support for supporting a semiconductor substrate within the chamber is included. A chamber top having an inlet is included. The inlet is configured to allow for the introduction of a gas into the chamber to displace moisture in a region defined above the substrate support. Sidewalls extending from the base to the chamber top are included. The sidewalls include access ports for entry and exit of a semiconductor substrate from the chamber. A method for conditioning an environment above a region of a semiconductor substrate within a pressure varying interface is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for conditioning an environment in a region defined above a semiconductor substrate within a pressure varying interface, the method comprising: introducing a semiconductor substrate through an open access port into a pressure varying interface, the pressure varying interface at a first pressure; flowing an inert gas through a vent port extending through a top surface of the pressure varying interface during the semiconductor substrate introduction; creating a moisture-free blanket of the inert gas in a region defined above the semiconductor substrate; forcing external moisture entering the pressure varying interface towards a bottom surface of the pressure varying interface below the semiconductor substrate; closing the open access port; transitioning a pressure within the pressure varying interface to a second pressure; and transferring the semiconductor substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second pressure is a vacuum state. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the method operation of transitioning the pressure varying interface to a second pressure further includes: evacuating the pressure varying interface through an outlet defined on a bottom surface of the pressure varying interface. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method operation of forcing external moisture entering the pressure varying interface towards a bottom surface of the pressure varying interface includes: establishing a flow rate of the inert gas so as to allow flow of an external fluid into the pressure varying interface through the open access port. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the vent port is located over a center region of the semiconductor substrate. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the method operation of flowing a gas through a vent port extending through a top surface of the pressure varying interface further includes: blanketing the semiconductor substrate with the inert gas to protect the semiconductor substrate from reactive species emanating from a processed semiconductor substrate simultaneously within the pressure varying interface. 7. A method for minimizing moisture in a region above a semiconductor substrate in a chamber, the method comprising: introducing a fluid through a vent port extending through a top surface of a chamber; introducing a semiconductor substrate into the chamber through an open access port; entraining moisture in a flow of the fluid from a region. defined over the semiconductor substrate to a region defined below the semiconductor substrate; transitioning a pressure within the chamber to a vacuum; and causing condensation of the moisture forced to the region defined below the semiconductor substrate. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the method operation of entraining moisture in a flow of the fluid from a region defined over the semiconductor substrate to a region defined below the semiconductor substrate further includes, establishing the flow of the fluid so as to allow flow of an external fluid containing water vapor into the pressure varying interface through the open access port. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the fluid is an inert gas. 10. The method of claim 7, further including: providing a diffuser above the region defined over the semiconductor substrate, the diffuser in communication with the vent port. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the fluid flow rate is between about 10 standard liters per minute and 100 standard liters per minute. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein, a distance between a top surface of the semiconductor substrate and a bottom surface of the diffuser is between about 3 millimeters and about 3 centimeters. 13. A method for providing a substantially contamination-free environment above a semiconductor substrate within a pressure varying interface, the method comprising: introducing an unprocessed semiconductor substrate through a first access port into a pressure varying interface; introducing a processed semiconductor substrate through a second access port into the pressure varying interface; flowing an inert gas through a vent port extending through a top surface of the pressure varying interface during the processed semiconductor substrate introduction; establishing an inert gas blanket around the unprocessed semiconductor substrate; forcing off-gassing residuals from the processed semiconductor substrate towards a bottom surface of the pressure varying interface below the semiconductor substrate; and transferring the unprocessed semiconductor substrate from the pressure varying interface through the second access port. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the inert gas is nitrogen. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the off-gassing residuals include hydrogen bromide. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the method operation of introducing a processed semiconductor substrate through a second access port into the pressure varying interface includes, accessing the processed semiconductor from an etch chamber. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the method operation of forcing off-gassing residuals from the processed semiconductor substrate towards a bottom surface of the pressure varying interface includes, scrubbing at least a portion of the off-gassing residuals through an interaction with the flowing inert gas. 