A system for handling stiff but flexible discs, particularly semiconductor wafers, including fail safe mechanisms that prevent the disc from being dropped if power to the unit is interrupted. Also, the electronics controlling operation resumes functioning at the point in the operation cycle existing when power was interrupted. A wafer hand assembly member is slipped under a wafer, or between parallel stacked but spaced wafers, and one or more fingers are rotated 90.degree. to a position perpendicular to the plane of the stiff hand assembly member. The hand assembly also has one or more posts positioned perpendicular to the surface of the hand assembly. The finger(s) and post(s) or rear barrier constitute three upright projections or points forming the corners of a triangle with the wafer to be grasped there between. A translator solenoid or voice coil, controls the lateral location of one finger or post, moving that finger or post toward the other two stationary fingers or post(s) causing the wafer to be grasped with controlled traction force between the fixed posts and the moveable finger. The traction force is controlled by the amount of driving energy fed to the translator solenoid. If the power to the solenoid or voice is interrupted, springs in the system cause the disk to be held between the posts or barrier and fingers until power is restored.
Claims I claimed: 1. An improved system for handling wafers comprising, in combination: a hand assembly, forward and rearward extensions for grasping, transporting and releasing said wafer to be handled, the forward extension for grasping being reversibly rotateable between positions parallel to, and perpendicular to, the plane of the hand assembly, control means for programming and implementing a desired sequence of operations; a grasping pressure applied to the wafer by the forward and rearward extensions being controlled by an electrically activated means operatively connected to at least one of the forward or rearward extensions, the grasping pressure being controlled by setting, at a predetermine level, the current fed to the electrically activated means wherein the improvement comprises the addition of biasing means which operate to apply a grasping pressure to the wafer if delivery of controlling electrical current to the electrically activated means is interrupted. 2. The system of claim 1 further including an optical means for detecting a local position and orientation of the wafer to be handled. 3. The system of claim 1 such that when a forward extension is parallel to the plane of the hand assembly it is within the plane of the hand assembly. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said rearward and forward extensions for grasping, transporting and releasing said wafer further comprise: a pair of rearward posts each having a central axis substantially perpendicular to the hand assembly; the forward extension being a moveable finger-like projecting member; means for reversibly positioning the axis of the moveable finger-like projecting member from a position pendicular to the axis of the posts to a position parallel to the axes of the posts. 5. The system of claim 4 further including measuring means for determining the dimensions of a wafer. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein said means for reversibly positioning the axis of the finger-like projection parallel to the axes of the fixed posts comprises a finger translating solenoid. 7. The system of claim 6 including a finger rotating means to reversibly position the axis of the finger-like projection, the system also including translational means to reduce the distance between the axis of the finger-like projection and the axes of the posts comprising an actuating rod operatively connecting the translational means and the finger like projection. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said forward and rearward extensions for grasping, transporting and releasing said wafer further comprises: at least one translational post having a central axis substantially perpendicular to the hand assembly; at least one rotational post spaced forward of the translational post; means for positioning the axes of the rotational post from a position perpendicular to the surface of the hand assembly to a position parallel to the surface of the hand assembly; and means to reversibly move the axis of the translational post toward a point between and spaced from the axes of the rotational posts when said posts are in their perpendicular orientation. 9. The system of claim 8 further including means to optically locate the wafer. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein the biasing means is a compressible or extendable spring. 11. An improved system for handling wafers and like substrate means comprising, in combination: a hand assembly, a means for grasping, transporting and releasing said substrate means to be handled, at least a control means for implementing a desired sequence of operations, and grasping pressure control means dependent solely on electrical current fed to a translational means operatively attached to the means for grasping, said means for grasping comprising at least a forward finger and a rearward barrier mounted to the hand assembly, the forward finger being moveable from a position in the plane of the hand assembly to a positioned perpendicular to the plane of the hand assembly, the rearward barrier being orientated perpendicular to the plane of the hand assembly, at least one of the finger or rearward barrier being moveable translationally along the plane of the hand assembly to reduce the distance therebetween, wherein the improvement comprises the addition of biasing means which operate to apply a grasping pressure to the wafer if delivery of the electrical current to the grasping pressure control means is interrupted. 12. A device for grasping flat, thin, disc-like media by applying pressure to at least three spaced apart points along the edge of the perimeter of said media, said device comprising: a) a h and assembly defining a p lane, s aid hand assembly having a forward portion, a rear portion, and an upper and lower surface, b) at least a first extension and a barrier means which functions a s two additional extensions attached to and extending above and perpendicular to the upper surface of said hand assembly, the at least three extensions comprising at least one post on the rear portion and at least one moveable finger on the forward portion, c) the at least one moveable finger being rotateable from a position within the plane of the hand assembly to an orientation perpendicular to, and extending above the upper surface of the hand assembly, d) at least one of the first extension and the barrier means being a laterally moveable extension, said laterally moveable extension moveable generally in the direction of the other extension or barrier means to cause all of the at least first extension and the barrier means to contact the perimeter of a flat, thin, disc-like media placed there between, said movement of the laterally moveable extension being caused by the application of an electrical current to a driving means operatively connected to said laterally moveable first extension or the barrier means, the pressure applied to the perimeter of the flat, thin, disc-like media being controlled solely by the amount of electric current applied to the driving means, wherein the improvement comprises the addition of biasing means which operate to apply a grasping pressure to the wafer if delivery of controlling electrical current to the driving means is interrupted. 13. The device of claim 12, the driving means being a solenoid which comprises a coil of wire which acts as a magnet when carrying an electric current and a translational rod within a central opening surrounded by the coil, the rod being attached to the laterally moveable extension such that current applied to the coil causes the rod to move within the plane of the hand assembly and the amount of current applied to the coil determines the pressure applied to the edge of the flat, thin, disc-like media by the extensions. 14. The device of claim 12 wherein the moveable finger is also the translational extension, said device having two posts on the rear portion, said posts being permanently attached to the rear portion of the upper surface. 15. The device of claim 12 having two moveable fingers and one extension on the rear portion, the extension on the rear portion being the translational post. 16. The device of claim 12 wherein the at least one post is the tolerably moveable extension. 