A process for etching a substrate 25 in an etching chamber 30, and simultaneously cleaning a thin, non-homogeneous, etch residue deposited on the surfaces of the walls 45 and components of the etching chamber 30. In the etching step, process gas comprising etchant gas is used to etch a substrate 25 in the etching chamber 30 thereby depositing etch residue inside the chamber 30. Cleaning gas is added to the process gas for a sufficient time and in a volumetric flow ratio that is sufficiently high, to react with and remove substantially all the etch residue deposited by the process gas. The present method advantageously cleans the etch residue in the chamber 30, during the etching process, and without use of separate cleaning, conditioning, and seasoning process steps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber, the substrate having a layer thereon; (b) providing an energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch substantially through the layer, the etchant gas comprising a first halogen containing gas compound having a first halogen; (c) during (b), providing an energized cleaning gas to substantially clean the chamber, the cleaning gas comprising a second halogen containing gas compound having a second halogen that is other than the first halogen; (d) removing the etched substrate from the chamber, and (e) repeating (a), (b), (c) and (d) without performing a separate cleaning step to clean the chamber. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr and He--O.sub.2. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the etchant gas comprises a halogen-containing gas and one or more of N.sub.2, HBr, O.sub.2 or He--O.sub.2. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4, NF.sub.3 and SF.sub.6. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4 and SF.sub.6. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein (c) comprises providing a burst of energized cleaning gas during (b). 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein (c) comprises providing a volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas of from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the etchant gas comprises Cl.sub.2 and N.sub.2, and wherein the cleaning gas comprises CF.sub.4. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 : (Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the layer comprises one or more of monocrystalline silicon, metal silicide, silicon dioxide and silicon nitride. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein (a), (b), (c) and (d) are repeated to sequentially process a batch of at least 2000 substrates. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein (a), (b), (c), and (d) are repeated to sequentially process a batch of at least 3000 substrates. 13. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber, the substrate having a layer thereon; (b) providing an energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the layer, the energized etchant gas being provided before etchant residue from the layer has been formed on the chamber surfaces, the etchant gas comprising a first halogen containing gas compound comprising a first halogen; (c) during (b), providing an energized cleaning gas to substantially clean the chamber, the cleaning gas comprising a second halogen containing gas compound comprising a second halogen that is other than the first halogen; (d) removing the etched substrate from the chamber; and (e) repeating (a), (b), (c) and (d) to sequentially process a batch of at least 2000 substrates. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein the etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr and He--O.sub.2. 15. A method according to claim 13 wherein the etchant gas comprises a halogen-containing gas and one or more of N.sub.2, HBr, O.sub.2 or He--O.sub.2. 16. A method according to claim 13 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4, NF.sub.3 and SF.sub.6. 17. A method according to claim 13 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4 and SF.sub.6. 18. A method according to claim 13 wherein (c) comprises providing a burst of energized process gas during (b). 19. A method according to claim 13 wherein (c) comprises providing a volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas of from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 20. A method according to claim 13 wherein the etchant gas comprises Cl.sub.2 and N.sub.2, and wherein the cleaning gas comprises CF.sub.4. 21. A method according to claim 20 wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 : (Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 22. A method according to claim 13 wherein the substrate comprises one or more of monocrystalline silicon, metal silicide, silicon dioxide and silicon nitride. 23. A method according to claim 13 wherein (a), (b), (c) and (d) are repeated to sequentially process a batch of at least 3000 substrates. 24. A method according to claim 13 wherein (a), (b), (c) and (d) are repeated without performing a separate cleaning step to clean the chamber. 25. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber; (b) providing a first energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the substrate; (c) providing a second energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the substrate; and (d) during one or more of (b) and (c), providing a burst of energized cleaning gas to substantially clean the chamber surfaces, wherein one or more of the first and second etchant gases comprises a first halogen containing gas compound comprising a first halogen, and wherein the cleaning gas comprises a second halogen containing gas compound comprising a second halogen that is other than the first halogen. 26. A method according to claim 25 wherein the first or second etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr and He--O.sub.2. 27. A method according to claim 25 wherein the first or second etchant gas comprises a halogen-containing gas and one or more of N.sub.2, HBr, O.sub.2 or He--O.sub.2. 28. A method according to claim 25 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4, NF.sub.3 and SF.sub.6. 29. A method according to claim 25 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4 and SF.sub.6. 30. A method according to claim 25 wherein (c) comprises providing a volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to the first or second etchant gas of from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 31. A method according to claim 25 wherein the first or second etchant gas comprises Cl.sub.2 and N.sub.2, and wherein the cleaning gas comprises CF.sub.4. 32. A method according to claim 31 wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 : (Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 33. A method according to claim 25 wherein the substrate comprises one or more of monocrystalline silicon, metal silicide, silicon dioxide and silicon nitride. 34. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber; (b) providing an energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the substrate, the etchant gas comprising a first halogen containing gas compound having a first halogen; (c) during (b), providing a burst of energized cleaning gas to substantially clean the chamber surfaces, the cleaning gas comprising a second halogen containing gas compound having a second halogen that is other than the first halogen; and (d) repeating (a), (b), and (c). 35. A method according to claim 34 wherein the etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr and He--O.sub.2. 36. A method according to claim 34 wherein the etchant gas comprises a halogen-containing gas and one or more of N.sub.2, HBr, O.sub.2 or He--O.sub.2 . 37. A method according to claim 34 wherein the cleaning gas comprises: one or more of CF.sub.4, NF.sub.3 and SF.sub.6. 38. A method according to claim 34 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4 and SF.sub.6. 39. A method according to claim 34 wherein (c) comprises providing a volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas of from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 40. A method according to claim 34 wherein the etchant gas comprises Cl.sub.2 and N.sub.2, and wherein the cleaning gas comprises CF.sub.4. 41. A method according to claim 40 wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 : (Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 42. A method according to claim 34 wherein the substrate comprises one or more of monocrystalline silicon, metal silicide, silicon dioxide, and silicon nitride. 43. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber; (b) providing a first energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the substrate, the first energized etchant gas comprising a chlorine-containing gas or a bromine-containing gas; (c) providing a second energized etchant god in the chamber to etch the substrate; and (d) during one or more of (b) and (c), providing a burst of energized cleaning gas comprising fluorine species to clean the chamber surfaces. 44. A method according to claim 43 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4, NF.sub.3 and SF.sub.6. 45. A method according to claim 43 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4 and SF.sub.6. 46. A method according to claim 43 wherein (c) comprises providing a volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to the first or second etchant gas of from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 47. A method according to claim 43 wherein the first or second etchant gas comprises Cl.sub.2 and N.sub.2, and wherein the cleaning gas comprises CF.sub.4. 48. A method according to claim 47 wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 (Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 49. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber; (b) providing an energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the substrate; (c) providing a burst of energized cleaning gas in the chamber to clean the chamber surfaces, the energized cleaning gas comprising one or more of (i) carbon and fluorine species and (ii) sulfur and fluorine species; and (d) after (c), removing the substrate from the chamber. 50. A method according to claim 49 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of CF.sub.4 and SF.sub.6. 51. A method of processing a substrate, the method comprising: (a) placing the substrate in a process zone of a chamber; (b) providing in the process zone an energized process gas comprising an etchant gas and a cleaning gas in a volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gases sufficiently high to at least partially remove etchant residue deposited on surfaces in the chamber, the etchant gas comprising a first halogen containing gas and one or more of a second halogen containing gas, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, and He--O.sub.2, and the cleaning gas comprising fluorine species; (c) removing the etched substrate from the chamber; and (d) repeating (a), (b), and (c) without performing a separate cleaning step to clean the chamber. 52. A method according to claim 51 wherein the cleaning gas comprises one or more of NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4, or SF.sub.6. 53. A method according to claim 51 wherein (a), (b) and (c) are repeated to sequentially process a batch of at least 2000 substrates. 54. A method according to claim 53 wherein (a), (b) and (c) are repeated to sequentially process a batch of at least 3000 substrates. 55. A method of processing a substrate, the method comprising: (a) placing the substrate in a process zone of a chamber; (b) providing in the process zone an energized process gas comprising etchant gas to etch the substrate, the etchant gas comprising a first halogen containing gas and one or more of N.sub.2, a second halogen containing gas, O.sub.2, and He--O.sub.2 ; and (c) providing in the process zone a burst of energized cleaning gas while the substrate is being etched, the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gases being sufficiently high to at least partially remove etchant residue deposited on surfaces in the chamber, the cleaning gas comprising fluorine species. 56. A method according to claim 55 wherein the energized cleaning gas comprises one or more of NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4, or SF.sub.6. 57. A method of etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising: (a) placing the substrate in the etching chamber; (b) providing an energized process gas in the etching chamber in a volumetric flow rate selected to etch the substrate and at least partially remove etchant residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising carbon and fluorine species; (c) after (b), removing the etched substrate from the chamber; and (d) repeating (a), (b) and (c) to sequentially process a batch of at least 2000 substrates without performing a separate cleaning step to clean the chamber. 58. A method according to claim 57 wherein the process gas comprises CF.sub.4. 59. A method according to claim 57 wherein the process gas comprises Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, and CF.sub.4, and wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of CF.sub.4 : (Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 60. A method according to claim 57 wherein (a), (b) and (c) are repeated to sequentially process a batch of at least 3000 substrates. 61. A method of etching a substrate and cleaning an etching chamber, the method comprising: (a) placing the substrate in the etching chamber; and (b) providing an energized process gas in the etching chamber in a volumetric flow rate selected to etch the substrate and at least partially remove etchant residue formed on the chamber surfaces, the process gas comprising sulfur and fluorine species; (c) after (b), removing the etched substrate from the chamber; and (d) repeating (a), (b) and (c) to sequentially process a batch of at least 2000 substrates without performing a separate cleaning step to clean the chamber. 62. A method according to claim 61 wherein the process gas comprises SF.sub.6. 63. A method according to claim 61 wherein the process gas comprises C.sub.2, N.sub.2, and SF.sub.6, and wherein the ratio of the volumetric flow of SF.sub.6 : (Cl.sub.2 +N.sub.2) is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 64. A method according to claim 61 wherein (a), (b) and (c) are repeated to sequentially process a batch of at least 3000 substrates. 65. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber; (b) providing an energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the substrate; and (c) providing a burst of energized cleaning gas in the chamber while the substrate is being etched to at least partially clean the chamber surfaces, the energized cleaning gas comprising carbon and fluorine species. 66. A method according to claim 65 wherein the cleaning gas comprises CF.sub.4. 67. A method according to claim 65 wherein the etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr, or He--O.sub.2. 68. A method according to claim 65 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 69. A substrate processing method comprising: (a) placing a substrate in a chamber; (b) providing an energized etchant gas in the chamber to etch the substrate; and (c) providing a burst of energized cleaning gas in the chamber while the substrate is being etched to at least partially clean the chamber surfaces, the energized cleaning gas comprising sulfur and fluorine species. 70. A method according to claim 69 wherein the cleaning gas comprises SF.sub.6. 71. A method according to claim 69 wherein the etchant gas comprises one or more of Cl.sub.2, N.sub.2, O.sub.2, HBr, or He--O.sub.2. 72. A method according to claim 69 wherein the volumetric flow ratio of cleaning gas to etchant gas is from about 1:20 to about 1:1. 