The present invention provides electromagnetic chips and electromagnetic biochips having arrays of individually addressable micro-electromagnetic units, as well as methods of utilizing these chips for directed manipulation of micro-particles and micro-structures such as biomolecules and chemical reagents.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electromagnetic chip with individually addressable micro-magnetic units comprising: a) a substrate; b) a plurality of micro-electromagnetic units on or within said substrate, substantially all of said micro-electromagnetic units structured to produce a magnetic field upon application of an electric field thereto; and means for selectively applying an electric current to one or more of said plurality of micro-electromagnetic units to produce a magnetic field therein, wherein at least one of said micro-electromagnetic units is in a substantially horizontal configuration. 2. The electromagnetic chip of claim 1, wherein each micro-electromagnetic unit comprises: a) a core on or within said substrate and b) means for conducting an electric current about said magnetic core; wherein said core is a magnetic core or a magnetizable core. 3. The electromagnetic chip of claim 2, wherein said core comprises a ferromagnetic material or a ferrimagnetic material. 4. The electromagnetic chip of claim 2, wherein said means for conducting an electric current about said core comprises single or multiple loops of electric conductive traces around said core. 5. The electromagnetic chip of claim 4, wherein said loops of electric conductive traces are of a circular, a square, an elliptical, a triangular, a spiral or a squared-spiral shape and further wherein said loops of electric conductive traces are in the same plane or different planes. 6. The electromagnetic chip of claim 4, further comprising means for modulating a magnitude and a polarity of the electric current selectively applied to any one of said micro-electromagnetic units. 7. The electromagnetic chip of claim 1, wherein said means for selectively applying comprises conductive connections between a micro-electromagnetic unit and a source of electric current and switch means for alternately interrupting and establishing a flow of electric current through the conductive connections. 8. The electromagnetic chip of claim 7, wherein said switch means are mechanical, electronic or a combination thereof. 9. The electromagnetic chip of claim 1, wherein said mirco-electromagnetic units are arranged on or within said substrate in a substantially regular, repetitive pattern with substantially equal distances between neighboring units. 10. The electromagnetic chip of claim 1, wherein said micro-electromagnetic units have dimensions of width and length ranging between about 0.1 micrometer and about 1 cm. 11. The electromagnetic chip of claim 1, further comprising at least one functional layer; wherein said functional layer can immobilize at least one moiety or ligand. 12. The electromagnetic chip of claim 11, wherein said functional layer is selected from the group consisting of a hydrophilic molecular monolayer, a hydrophilic molecular monolayer with functional groups, a hydrophobic molecular monolayer, a hydrophobic molecular monolayer with functional groups, a hydrophilic membrane, a hydrophilic membrane with functional groups, a hydrophobic membrane, a hydrophobic membrane with functional groups, a hydrophilic gel, a hydrophilic gel with functional groups, a hydrophobic gel, a hydrophobic gel with functional groups, a porous material, a porous material with functional groups, a non-porous material and a non-porous material with functional groups. 13. The electromagnetic chip of claim 12, wherein said functional groups are selected from the group consisting of aldehydes, carbodiimides, succinimydyl esters, antibodies, receptors and lectins. 14. The electromagnetic chip of claim 11, further comprising at least one moiety or ligand immobilized on or within said functional layer. 15. The electromagnetic chip of claim 14, wherein said moiety or ligand comprise a material selected from the group consisting of nucleic acid molecules, DNA, RNA, polypeptides, proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells, prions, viruses, parasites, antibodies, lectins or receptors. 