An action figure includes an upper body having robotic features and a lower body interconnected with the upper body. The upper body includes a head and arms connected to a torso that connects to the lower body. The lower body includes construction tools, a chassis and front and rear wheels attached to the chassis. The action figure has a sound generation system that generates a sound such as a whistle or a phrase by actuation of sound activating switches.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combination action figure/toy construction vehicle comprising: an action figure portion including a torso, a head attached to the torso, and at least one arm attached to the torso, the action figure portion lacking leg and feet components; and a toy construction vehicle portion including a chassis, a construction tool attached to the chassis, and at least one wheel attached to the chassis, the toy construction vehicle portion lacking a cab; wherein the action figure portion is attached to the chassis in place of the cab for the toy construction vehicle portion; and Wherein the toy construction vehicle portion supports the action figure portion. 2. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the at least one arm comprises two arms attached to different sides of the torso. 3. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 2 further comprising a fist connected to a first of the two arms. 4. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 3 wherein the fist is propelled away the first of the two arms when a release mechanism is actuated. 5. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 4 wherein the fist is connected to the first of the two arms such that the fist is positioned parallel to the ground. 6. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 3 wherein the fist is capable of being rotated relative to an axis that is perpendicular to the torso. 7. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 3 further comprising a shovel connected to a second of the two arms in place of a hand. 8. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 7 wherein the fist is a movable claw. 9. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the at least one arm resembles a backhoe. 10. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the action figure portion is capable of being rotated relative to the toy construction vehicle portion. 11. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the at least one wheel comprises front and rear wheels with a track extending around the front and rear wheels. 12. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the construction tool comprises a loader bucket attached to the chassis by a support member. 13. The action figure as in claim 12 wherein the toy construction vehicle portion further comprises a hinge connecting the support member to the loader bucket and enabling movement of the loader bucket relative to the chassis. 14. The action figure as in claim 12 wherein the toy construction vehicle portion further comprises a lever connected to the loader bucket allowing movement of the loader bucket relative to the chassis. 15. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the action figure further comprises a sound generation system. 16. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 15 wherein the sound generation system further comprises a sound activating switch and the sound generation system generates a sound based upon an actuation of the switch. 17. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 16 wherein the construction tool comprises a loader bucket attached to the chassis by a support member and the sound activating switch is activated upon a change in position of the loader bucket. 18. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 16 wherein the sound activation switch is actuated based upon a change in position of the at least one arm. 19. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 15 wherein the sound-activating switch further comprises a button on the torso such that the sound activating switch is actuated by actuation of the button. 20. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the construction tool comprises a bed defining a cavity. 21. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 20 wherein the bed is hingedly attached to the chassis. 22. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 wherein the construction tool comprises a dozer blade. 23. The combination action figure/toy construction vehicle as in claim 1 further comprising a shovel connected to the at least one arm in place of a hand. 