An apparatus for handling and positioning wafers or other flat objects. The apparatus has an XY stage with an X-drive and a Y-drive, and a bed attached to the XY stage. A chuck (e.g. a vacuum chuck) is disposed on the bed and an effector is attached to the bed. The effector can rotate about an axis of rotation extending in the Z-direction. The effector can pick up objects and place the objects onto the chuck. The effector can also pick up objects from the chuck. Preferably, the chuck has a recessed region for accommodating the effector so that the effector can be inserted under a flat object on the chuck. The X-drive or Y-drive of the XY stage provides linear motion for the effector so that the effector can pull wafers from a cassette such as used in the semiconductor industry. Alternatively, the effector is attached to a linear actuator disposed on the bed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for handling, positioning and examining a flat object delivered in a cassette that holds the flat object in an X-Y plane, the apparatus comprising: a) a mounting means for mounting the cassette; b) an X-Y stage having an X-drive, a Y-drive, and a bed, wherein the bed is movable in an X direction and a Y direction by the X-drive and the Y-drive respectively; c) an effector for handling the flat object, the effector being attached to the bed and being rotatable about a Z-axis with respect to the bed, the X-Y stage being disposed relative to the mounting means such that the X-Y stage causes the effector to pull the flat object from the cassette mounted in the mounting means; and d) a chuck for receiving and holding the flat object for measurements, the chuck being attached to the bed and disposed such that the effector places the flat object onto the chuck, wherein movements of the bed in the X direction and the Y direction allow the measurements at at least two points on the flat object. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a second effector attached to the bed, wherein the second effector is rotatable about a second Z-axis with respect to the bed. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the second effector is movable in a Z-direction with respect to the bed. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising a means for moving the second effector between two discrete Z-positions. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the chuck is a vacuum chuck for receiving flat objects. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the effector is movable in the Z-direction with respect to the bed. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a means for moving the effector between two discrete Z-positions. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the effector has holes for engaging the flat objects with a vacuum. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the chuck is movable in the Z-direction. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the chuck has a recessed region for accommodating the effector. 11. An apparatus for handling, positioning and examining a flat object delivered in a cassette that holds the flat object in an X-Y plane, the apparatus comprising: a) a mounting means for mounting the cassette; b) an X-Y stage having at least one of an X-drive and a Y-drive, and a bed, wherein the bed is movable in at least one of an X direction and a Y direction by at least one of the X-drive and the Y-drive respectively; c) an effector for handling the flat object, the effector being attached to the bed and being rotatable about a Z-axis with respect to the bed, the X-Y stage being disposed relative to the mounting means such that the X-Y stage causes the effector to pull the flat object from the cassette mounted in the mounting means; d) a chuck for receiving and holding the flat object for measurements, the chuck being attached to the bed and disposed such that the effector places the flat object onto the chuck, wherein movements of the bed in at least one of the X direction and the Y direction allow the measurements at at least two points on the flat object. 