An apparatus and method for sealing an underground junction between a lateral service line and a main pipeline from the inside-out. One embodiment provides a substantially rigid patching apparatus which may be positioned and installed with a robotic device within a main pipeline. The patching apparatus has a flange shaped to fit the internal diameter of the main pipeline and a tubular stem or sleeve which penetrates into the lateral service line. The patching apparatus contains an interconnection substrate such as felt, sponge or other similar material. The interconnection substrate may be impregnated with a bonding agent which sealingly interconnects the patching apparatus to the main pipeline and lateral service line, and may be heated by utilizing a heating element within a support cage, thus reducing the time required for curing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A patch adapted for insertion into a main pipeline to sealingly repair a junction between the main pipeline and a lateral service line, comprising: a tubular stem having a substantially rigid portion, a flexible portion, a first end and a second end, the second end having a substantially open aperture for communication with the lateral service line; a convex flange having an exterior surface, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem, wherein said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; said flexible portion of said tubular stem having deformation properties adapted to allow the rigid portion of the tubular stem to be selectively engaged into said lateral service line at the angle at which the lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline; and, sealing means interconnected to at least a portion of the exterior surface of said convex flange and having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline. 2. The patch of claim 1, wherein said convex flange is substantially rigid. 3. The patch of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface of the convex flange is contoured to have a shape substantially coextensive with the interior surface of the main pipeline. 4. The patch of claim 1, wherein the flexible portion of the tubular stem is bendable. 5. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means substantially surrounds at least the point of interconnection between said convex flange and said tubular stem. 6. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means is comprised of at least one of a foam rubber, a felt, a rubber, a synthetic polymer, a sponge, or a cloth. 7. The patch of claim 1, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within the sealing means. 8. The patch of claim 1, wherein said sealing means comprises a permeable substrate material impregnated with an adhesive material. 9. The patch of claim 1, further comprising a seal operably interconnected to said tubular stem which is adapted to fit within the lateral service line to sealingly engage the lateral service line to said tubular stem. 10. A method for remotely installing a patch to an underground junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, wherein said lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline at an angle other than a ninety-degree angle, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a patch comprising: a tubular stem having a substantially rigid portion, a flexible portion, a first end and a second end, the second end having a substantially open aperture for communication with the lateral service line; a convex flange having an exterior service, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and sealingly interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem, wherein said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; said flexible portion having deformation properties adapted to allow the rigid portion of the tubular stem to be fit into said lateral service line at the angle at which the lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline; and, sealing means interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; (b) determining a location of the junction between the main pipeline and the lateral service line; (c) removably attaching said patch to a support cage; (d) positioning said support cage adjacent to the location of the underground junction; (e) activating a lateral extender to move said support cage from a first traveling position to a second engagement position so that said patch is positioned with said tubular stem within the lateral service line and said sealing substrate is positioned against an internal surface of the main pipeline proximate to said lateral service line; (f) curing said patch so that said patch becomes fixedly connected to the internal surface of the main pipeline wherein said patch substantially prevents infiltration of foreign matter into the main pipeline at the underground junction; (g) deactivating the lateral extender to move said support cage from the second engagement position to the first traveling position; and (h) removing said lateral extender and said support cage from the main pipeline. 11. The method for installing a patch of claim 10, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within said sealing means for interconnecting said means to the interior surface of the main pipeline. 12. The method for installing a patch of claim 10, wherein the step of activating a lateral extender includes deforming the flexible portion of the tubular stem of the patch such that the flexible portion of the tubular stem is substantially coextensive with an interior surface of the lateral service line at the angle which the lateral service line joins the main pipeline. 13. A patch adapted for removable interconnection for insertion into a main pipeline to sealingly repair a junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line wherein said lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline at an angle other than a ninety-degree angle, comprising: a tubular stem having a substantially rigid portion, a first end and a second end; a convex flange having an exterior service, an interior surface and a cutout portion in operable communication with said first end of said tubular stem; a flexible portion hingedly interconnecting said first end of said tubular stem and said convex flange which is adapted to allow the rigid portion of the tubular stem to be fit into said lateral service line at the angle at which the lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline; a seal operably interconnected to an extension surface of said tubular stem and adapted to engage with the lateral service line; and a sealing substrate interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange which has resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline. 14. The patch of claim 13, wherein said convex flange is substantially rigid. 15. The patch of claim 13, wherein the exterior surface of the convex flange is contoured to have a shape substantially coextensive with the interior surface of the main pipeline. 16. The patch of claim 13, wherein the flexible portion of the tubular stem is a bendable accordion type plastic material. 17. The patch of claim 13, wherein said sealing substrate substantially surrounds the point of interconnection of said convex flange and aid tubular stem. 18. The patch of claim 13, wherein said sealing substrate is comprised of at least one of a foam rubber, a felt, a rubber, a synthetic polymer, a sponge and a cloth. 19. The patch of claim 13, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive interconnected to or impregnated within the sealing substrate. 20. The patch of claim 13, wherein said sealing substrate comprises a permeable material impregnated with an adhesive material. 21. The patch of claim 13, wherein said convex flange covers a portion of a circumference of the main pipeline at least 1.5 times a diameter of the lateral service line. 22. The patch of claim 13, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than a length of the lateral service line. 23. The patch of claim 13, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than half of a length of the lateral service line. 24. The patch of claim 13, wherein said tubular stem has a first length less than a diameter of the main pipeline. 25. The patch of claim 13, wherein said flexible portion of the tubular stem is bendable to allow said tubular stem to switch in a complete 360 degree circle with respect to said flange. 26. A method for remotely installing a patch to an underground junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, wherein said lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline at an angle other than a ninety-degree angle, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a patch comprising: a tubular stem having a substantially rigid portion, a flexible portion, a first end and a second end, the second end having a substantially open aperture for communication with the lateral service line; a convex flange having an exterior service, an interior surface and a cutout portion operatively sized and interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem, wherein said tubular stem extends away from the exterior surface of said convex flange; said flexible portion having deformation properties adapted to allow the rigid portion of the tubular stem to be fit into said lateral service line at the angle at which the lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline; a seal, said seal adapted to expand to fit within the lateral service line to seal off the lateral service line; and, sealing means interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; (b) determining a location of the junction between the main pipeline and the lateral service line; (c) removably attaching said patch to a support cage; (d) positioning said support cage adjacent to the location of the underground junction; (e) activating a lateral extender to move said support cage from a first traveling position to a second engagement position so that said patch is positioned with said tubular stem within the lateral service line and said sealing substrate is positioned against an internal surface of the main pipeline proximate to said lateral service line; (f) curing said patch so that said patch becomes fixedly connected to the internal surface of the main pipeline wherein said patch substantially prevents infiltration of foreign matter into the main pipeline at the underground junction; (g) deactivating the lateral extender to move said support cage from the second engagement position to the first traveling position; and (h) removing said lateral extender and said support cage from the main pipeline. 27. The method for installing a patch of claim 26, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within said sealing means for interconnecting said means to the interior surface of the main pipeline. 28. The method for installing a patch of claim 26, wherein the step of activating a lateral extender includes deforming the flexible portion of the tubular stem of the patch such that the flexible portion of the tubular stem is substantially coextensive with an interior surface of the lateral service line at the angle which the lateral service line joins the main pipeline. 29. A method for remotely installing a patch to an underground junction between a main pipeline and a lateral service line, wherein said lateral service line is joined to the main pipeline at an angle other than a ninety-degree angle, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a patch comprising: a substantially rigid tubular stem having a first end and a second end, the second end; a convex flange having an exterior service, an interior surface and a cutout portion in operable communication with said substantially rigid tubular stem, wherein said convex flange is hingedly interconnected to the first end of said tubular stem; a seal, said seal adapted to fit within the lateral service line to seal off the lateral service line; and, sealing substrate interconnected to the exterior surface of said convex flange having resilient deformation properties adapted to provide sealing engagement between said convex flange and an interior surface of the main pipeline; (b) determining a location of the junction between the main pipeline and the lateral service line; (c) removably attaching said patch to a support cage; (d) positioning said support cage adjacent to the location of the underground junction; (e) activating a lateral extender to move said support cage from a first traveling position to a second engagement position so that said patch is positioned with said tubular stem within the lateral service line and said sealing substrate is positioned against an internal surface of the main pipeline proximate to said lateral service line; (f) curing said patch so that said patch becomes fixedly connected to the internal surface of the main pipeline wherein said patch substantially prevents infiltration of foreign matter into the main pipeline at the underground junction; (g) deactivating the lateral extender to move said support cage from the second engagement position to the first traveling position; and (h) removing said lateral extender and said support cage from the main pipeline. 30. The method for installing a patch of claim 29, wherein said patch further comprises an adhesive means interconnected to or impregnated within said sealing means for interconnecting said means to the interior surface of the main pipeline. 31. The method for installing a patch of claim 29, wherein the step of activating a lateral extender includes deforming the flexible portion of the tubular stem of the patch such that the flexible portion of the tubular stem is substantially coextensive with an interior surface of the lateral service line at the angle which the lateral service line joins the main pipeline. 