The invention relates to a drive tester and transmission tester, preferably for carrying out acoustic, oscillation and functional tests, comprising a clamping device for clamping a specimen to be tested, preferably a transmission (90), a drive component or a driven component, e.g. an electric drive, a drive/transmission-integral solution or a transmission component, a driving device (44), at least one driven device (26), and a framework. The transmission tester according to the invention is wherein the framework is provided as frame modules independent of each other, wherein clamping device, driving device (44) and driven device (26) are each allocated to a frame module (20) for configuring a function module (central body module (18), driving module (12), driven module (14)).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular drive and transmission tester, preferably for conducting acoustic, oscillation and functional tests, comprising: a first frame module for supporting the device such as a transmission to be tested; a second frame module for supporting a driving component such as an electric motor; a third frame module for supporting a driven component such as a load; connection means for mechanically securing in a detachable manner said first frame module to said second and third frame modules; and coupling means for operatively coupling said driving and driven components to said tested device. 2. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, wherein each frame module includes connecting means for connecting with another frame module. 3. The drive and transmission tester of claim 2, wherein the connecting means of each frame module are arranged at predetermined locations in a standardized manner to permit the frame modules to be joined in multiple configurations. 4. The drive and transmission tester of claim 3, wherein the connecting means of each frame module are configured as flange connections. 5. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, wherein the first frame module is configured in a transmission-specific fashion and the second and third frame modules are configured substantially in a transmission-nonspecific fashion. 6. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, wherein the frame modules comprise frame parts which are filled with polymer concrete. 7. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, wherein either of the driving component or driven component is arranged on its respective module in a displaceable fashion in at least one direction. 8. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, wherein either of the driving component or driven component is arranged on its respective module in a displaceable fashion in at least two directions. 9. The drive and transmission tester of claim 8, wherein the frame modules for either of the driving component or driven component include a slide unit for mounting the component to the frame. 10. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, further including a fourth frame module for supporting a controlling device for controlling the operation of the tested device. 11. The drive and transmission tester of claim 10, wherein the controlling device comprises an operating device and a displaying device. 12. The drive and transmission tester of claim 11, wherein the operating device comprises a robotic manual shift mechanism for operating the tested transmission. 13. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, wherein either of the driving component or driven component is surrounded by a sound insulation cabin. 14. The drive and transmission tester of claim 1, further including a fifth frame module for supporting an electrical control for the tested transmission. 