An articulated apparatus is disclosed that includes an actuator base and a plurality of serially coupled link members that are mutually joined to one another at a plurality of joints. Each of the serially coupled link members has an axis of rotation. The plurality of link member includes a proximal link member that is proximal to the actuator base, and a distal link member that is distal to the actuator base, and each link member includes a proximal end and a distal end. The apparatus also includes a plurality of actuators that are located at the base, and each actuator is associated with a respective link member. The apparatus further includes a plurality of tendons, each of which is coupled to an actuator and a respective link member for effecting movement of the link member with respect to the actuator base. At least one tendon is for effecting movement of at least one link member, and passes through the axis of rotation of each joint that is between the distal end of the at least one link member and the actuator base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated apparatus comprising: an actuator base; a plurality of serially coupled link members that are mutually joined to one another at a plurality of joints, each of which has a fixed position axis of rotation relative to each link, about which the link members rotate relative to each other, said plurality of link members including a proximal link member that is proximal to said actuator base, and a distal link member that is distal to said actuator base, and each link member including a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of actuators located at said actuator base, each actuator being associated with a respective link member; and a plurality of tendons, each of which is coupled to an actuator and a respective link member for effecting movement of each link member with respect to said actuator base, at least one tendon for effecting movement of at least one link member, said at least one tendon passing through the fixed position axis of rotation of each joint that is proximal of said at least one link member. 2. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said tendons comprise cables having a diameter of approximately 80/1000 of an inch. 3. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least three of said plurality of tendons pass through an axis of rotation of at least one joint along the axis of rotation of the joint. 4. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least some of said serially coupled link members may be introduced into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 5. An articulated apparatus comprising; an actuator base; a plurality of serially coupled link members that are mutually joined to one another at a plurality of joints, each of which has a fixed position axis of rotation relative to each link, about which the link members rotate relative each other, said plurality of link members including a proximal link member that is proximal to said actuator base, and a distal link member that is distal to said actuator base, and each link member including a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of actuators located at said actuator base, each actuator being associated with a respective link member; and a plurality of tendons, each of which is coupled to an actuator and a respective link member for effecting movement of each link member with respect to said actuator base, the tendon for effecting movement of each link member passing through the fixed position axis of rotation of each joint that is proximal of the link member such that upon actuation of a tendon, only the link member associated with that tendon will move with respect to the actuator base. 6. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said tendons comprise cables having a diameter of approximately 80/1000 of an inch. 7. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein at least some of said serially coupled link members may be introduced into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 8. An articulated apparatus comprising: an actuator base; a plurality of serially coupled link members that are mutually joined to one another at a plurality of joints, at least one of which has a fixed position axis of rotation relative to each link, about which the link members rotate relative to each other, said plurality of link members including a proximal link member that is proximal to said actuator base, and a distal link member that is distal to said actuator base, and each link member including a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of actuators at said actuator base, each actuator being associated with a respective link member; and a plurality of tendons, each of which is coupled to an actuator and a respective link member for effecting movement of each link member with respect to said actuator base, at least one tendon for effecting movement of at least one link member, said at least one tendon passing through the fixed position axis of rotation of the at least one joint that is proximal of said at least one link member. 9. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said tendons comprise cables having a diameter of approximately 80/1000 of an inch. 10. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein at least three of said plurality of tendons pass thorough an axis of rotation of at least one joint along the axis of rotation of the joint. 11. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein at least some of said serially coupled link members may be introduced into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 12. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein said link members also include a link member closer to said actuator base than said at least one link member, and said at least one tendon passing through the axis of rotation of the joint from which said closer link member is supported. 13. An articulated apparatus comprising: an actuator base; a plurality of serially coupled link members that are mutually joined to one another at a plurality of joints, at least one of which has a fixed position axis of rotation relative to each link, about which the link members rotate relative to each other, said plurality of link members including a proximal link member that is proximal to said actuator base, and a distal link member that is distal to said actuator base, each link member including a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of actuators at said actuator base, each actuator being associated with a respective link member; and a plurality of tendons, each of which is coupled to an actuator and a respective link member for effecting movement of each link member with respect to said actuator base, at least one of said plurality of tendons for effecting movement of its associated link member passing through the fixed position axis of rotation of the at least one joint that is proximal of the associated link member such that upon actuation of a tendon, only the link member associated with that tendon moves with respect to the actuator base. 14. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said tendons comprise cables having a diameter of approximately 80/1000 of an inch. 15. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein at least some of said serially coupled link members may be introduced into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 16. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said at least one tendon passes through the axis of rotation of the joint from which the proximal link member is supported. 17. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein one of said link members comprises an end effector. 18. An articulated apparatus comprising: first and second link members joined at an axis of rotation, fixed relative to each link, about which the link members rotate relative to each other; and a drive tendon which passes axially along the link members to drive an element coupled from the second link member, the tendon passing substantially through the fixed position axis of rotation. 19. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to the first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a joint having a fixed position axis of rotation relative to each link, about which both the link members rotate relative to each other; and at least one tendon extending through the fixed position axis of rotation of the joint such that movement of the second link member with respect to the first link member is independent of movement of the at least one tendon with respect to the joint. 20. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a joint having an axis of rotation, the axis of rotation defining the only rotation between the link members and about which the first and second link members rotate relative to each other; and a plurality of mutually independently longitudinally moveable tendons each extending through the axis of rotation of the joint such that movement of the second link member with respect to the first link member is independent of longitudinal movement of the tendons with respect to the joint, the tendons being movable in a longitudinal direction that is transverse to the first axis of rotation to effect movement of a distal link member coupled to the distal end of the second link member. 21. An articulated apparatus comprising: first and second link members joined at a single axis of rotation about which the link members rotate relative to each other; and a drive tendon which passes axially along the link members to drive an element coupled from the second link member, the tendon passing substantially through the single axis of rotation. 22. The articulated apparatus of claim 21 wherein the drive tendon extends, in the proximity of said single axis of rotation, in a direction coincident with a longitudinal axis of the link members. 23. The articulated apparatus of claim 21 wherein said single axis of rotation is a fixed position axis of rotation. 24. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to the first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a joint having a single axis of rotation about which both the link members rotate relative to each other; and at least one tendon extending through the single axis of rotation of the joint such that movement of the second link member with respect to the first link member is independent of movement of the at least one tendon with respect to the joint. 25. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a joint having an axis of rotation, the axis of rotation being defined by a single jointed member between the link members and about which the first and second link members rotate relative to each other; and at least one longitudinally moveable tendon extending through the axis of rotation of the joint such that movement of the second link member with respect to the first link member is independent of longitudinal movement of the tendon with respect to the joint, the tendon being movable in a longitudinal direction. 26. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a joint having an axis of rotation; and at least one elongated tendon extending in a direction of a longitudinal axis of both said first and second link members, extending through the said axis of rotation, and extending, about the proximity of said axis of rotation, in a direction that is coincident with the longitudinal axis of at least one of said link members. 27. The articulated apparatus of claim 26 wherein the axis of rotation is static relative to each link member. 28. The articulated apparatus of claim 26 wherein said axis of rotation is formed by a single-jointed member. 29. The articulated apparatus of claim 26 wherein said at least one elongated tendon extends in a direction that is coincident with the longitudinal axes of both said first and second link members. 30. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a joint having an axis of rotation; said first and second link members each having a longitudinally extending axis; and at least one elongated tendon extending in the direction of the longitudinal axis of both said first and second link members, and extending through the said axis of rotation; said tendon being movable across said axis of rotation while being maintained, in the vicinity of said axis of rotation, in-line with the longitudinal axis of at least one of said first and second link members. 31. The articulated apparatus of claim 30 wherein the joint is comprised of a single-jointed member. 32. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a turnable member having a single axis of motion that permits the second link member to turn relative to the first link member; said first and second link members each having a longitudinally extending axis; and at least one elongated tendon extending in the direction of the longitudinal axis of both said first and second link members, and extending substantially through the said axis of motion at said turnable member. 33. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a joint having an axis of rotation, the axis of rotation being defined by a single-jointed member between the link members and about which the first and second link members rotate relative to each other; and at least one longitudinally moveable tendon extending substantially through the axis of rotation of the joint such that movement of the second link member with respect to the first link member is independent of longitudinal movement of the tendon with respect to the joint, the tendon being movable in a longitudinal direction through the axis of rotation and extending substantially coaxial with a longitudinal axis of at least one of said link members. 