Methods and apparatus are provided for mounting one or more glazing panes or insulating glass units into a window sash frame member having spaced side walls joined by an inner facing frame surface with a spacing structure disposed on the frame surface. Glazing panes are placed against strips of adhesive sealant within the window sash frame. Folding glazing beads hingedly attached to the side or inner walls of the frame member are folded against the glazing panes to secure them to the window sash frame member and/or to cover the glazing pane edges.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A window sash frame member for constructing a window sash, the window sash frame member comprising: a length of sash frame member having first and second spaced side walls joined by an inner facing frame surface extending substantially over the length of the sash frame member; a first hinged component extending substantially over the length of the sash frame member and being hingedly attached along a first end thereof to at least one of: (i) the first side wall of the sash member, (ii) said inner facing frame surface; a second hinged component extending substantially over the length of the sash frame member and being hingedly attached along a first end thereof to at least one of: (i) the second side wall of the sash member; (ii) said inner facing frame surface; and first and second mounting surfaces extending from said inner facing frame surface; wherein said first and second hinged components each comprise second ends adapted to close toward one another in the direction of said mounting surfaces, such that when the hinged components are closed, the second end of the first hinged component will cover a peripheral portion of a first glazing pane or screen mounted to the first mounting surface and the second end of the second hinged component will cover a peripheral portion of a second glazing pane or screen mounted to the second mounting surface. 2. The window sash frame member of claim 1 wherein: at least said first hinged component comprises a side leg adapted to form a glazing bead which includes an integral setting block extending in a transverse direction to the side leg. 3. The window sash frame member of claim 2 wherein: said integral setting block extends in a substantially perpendicular direction to the side leg. 4. The window sash frame member of claim 2 further including: a first locking member disposed on the side leg; and a second locking member disposed on said sash frame member for cooperating with said first locking member to lock said glazing bead to said sash frame member with said second end covering said peripheral portion. 5. The window sash frame member of claim 4 wherein: the first locking member comprises a locking lug projecting from the side leg between said first and second ends; and the second locking member comprises a locking notch adapted to securely receive and grip said locking lug. 6. The window sash frame member of claim 4 wherein: the second locking member comprises a locking lug projecting from the sash frame member; and the first locking member comprises a locking notch adapted to securely receive and grip said locking lug. 7. The window sash frame member of claim 1 wherein each of said hinged components comprises a glazing bead, and each of said glazing beads includes: a first locking member disposed on a respective glazing bead side leg; the first locking member of each glazing bead being adapted to cooperate with a respective second locking member disposed on said sash frame member to lock the glazing bead to the sash frame member with the second end of the glazing bead covering the respective peripheral portion. 8. The window sash member of claim 1, further comprising: a first strip of adhesive between the second end of said first hinged component and the respective glazing pane or screen; and a second strip of adhesive between the second end of said second hinged component and the respective glazing pane or screen. 9. The window sash frame member of claim 8 further comprising: a third strip of adhesive located adjacent the inner facing frame surface and adapted to extend between the glazing panes or screens. 10. The window sash frame member of claim 1 wherein said first hinged component is integrally attached along the intersection of the inner facing frame surface and the first side wall of the sash member. 11. The window sash frame member of claim 10 wherein the second hinged component is integrally attached along the intersection of the inner facing frame surface and the second side wall of the sash member. 12. The window sash frame member of claim 1, wherein: said first hinged component is a glazing bead comprising a leg adapted to cover the peripheral portion of the first glazing pane when the glazing bead is pivoted about the hinged connection toward the glazing pane, said leg being substantially parallel to the first side wall of said sash member when in a final position adjacent said glazing pane. 13. The window sash frame member of claim 1, wherein: said first hinged component is a glazing bead comprising a leg adapted to cover the peripheral portion of the first glazing pane when the glazing bead is pivoted about the hinged connection toward the glazing pane, said leg being beveled from the first side wall of said sash member toward said glazing pane when in a final position adjacent said glazing pane. 14. The window sash frame member of claim 1, wherein: said first hinged component is a glazing bead comprising a leg adapted to cover the peripheral portion of the first glazing pane when the glazing bead is pivoted about the hinged connection toward the glazing pane, said leg being curved from the first side wall of said sash member toward said glazing pane when in a final position adjacent said glazing pane. 15. The window sash frame member of claim 1, wherein the first hinged component is adapted to hold one of: (i) a separate insulating glass unit, (ii) a window screen, (iii) an energy panels, (iv) a single glazing pane to the window sash. 16. The window sash frame member of claim 1, wherein at least one of the hinged attachments is intermittent. 17. The window sash frame member of claim 1, wherein said first hinged component is adapted to be folded from an initial position on one side of the sash frame member through an arc of about 270.degree. to a final functional position. 18. A method for mounting glazing panes into a window sash frame comprising the steps of: providing a sash frame formed from a sash profile having first and second spaced side walls joined by an inner facing frame surface extending the length of the sash profile and a glazing pane mounting structure having first and second side glazing surfaces adjacent the inner facing frame surface; placing a first glazing pane against the first side glazing surface; folding a first glazing bead hingedly attached to the first side wall toward said mounting structure for covering a peripheral portion of said first glazing pane; placing a second glazing pane against the second side glazing surface; and folding a second glazing bead hingedly attached to the second side wall toward said mounting structure for covering a peripheral portion of said second glazing pane. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising: securing the first glazing bead in position adjacent said first glazing pane. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising: securing the second glazing bead in position adjacent said second glazing pane. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein one of: (i) a separate insulating glass unit, (ii) a window screen, (iii) an energy panel is substituted for at least one of said first and second glazing panes. 22. A method for mounting first and second glazing panes to a window sash frame member comprising the steps of: providing a length of sash frame member having first and second spaced side walls joined by an inner facing frame surface extending the length of the sash frame member; providing a glazing surface adjacent the first side wall of the sash frame member; placing a first strip of adhesive on at least one of: (i) the glazing surface, (ii) a first glazing pane; placing the first glazing pane against the glazing surface with the first strip of adhesive therebetween; placing a second strip of adhesive on at least one of: (i) the first glazing pane, (ii) the inner facing frame surface; placing a second glazing pane against the second strip of adhesive; placing a third strip of adhesive on at least one of: (i) a glazing bead hingedly attached to the second side wall, (ii) said second glazing pane; and folding the glazing bead to secure it to the second glazing pane via the third strip of adhesive. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein at least one of: (i) a separate insulating glass unit, (ii) a window screen, (iii) an energy panel is substituted for at least one of said glazing panes. 24. A window or door component comprising: a frame defining a glazing opening bounded by an inner facing frame surface; an integral receiving surface extending from the inner facing frame surface into the glazing opening, said receiving surface adapted to receive a glazing pane or screen; and at least one hinged element hingedly attached along a length of at least one side of the frame; wherein: said hinged element is adapted to pivot about a hinge line to engage a glazing pane or screen placed on said receiving surface in the frame; and the hinged element is adapted to be held in place against the glazing pane or screen by an adhesive. 25. A component in accordance with claim 24, wherein said hinged element comprises a locking member adapted to lock with a counterpart locking element on said frame. 26. A component in accordance with claim 24, wherein said adhesive is provided between a portion of the hinged element and a portion of the glazing pane or screen. 27. A component in accordance with claim 24, wherein said hinged element comprises: a first portion for providing said receiving surface when folded along a first hinge line; and a second portion for providing said engage and hold function. 28. A component in accordance with claim 27, wherein said second portion is adapted to snap into place to hold said glazing pane or screen in said frame. 29. A component in accordance with claim 24, wherein said glazing pane is an element of an insulating glass unit. 30. A window or door component comprising: a frame defining a glazing opening bounded by an inner facing frame surface; at least one hinged element hingedly attached along a length of at least one side of the frame, said hinged element comprising a side leg adapted to form a glazing bead; an integral setting block extending transversely from the side leg; said hinged element being adapted to pivot about a hinge line to engage a glazing pane or screen on a receiving surface in the frame, with said setting block holding an edge of the glazing pane or screen above said inner facing frame surface. 