Library system health is monitored and displayed based on the location of equipment within the library relative to track layout. Robotic devices travel on rails within the data storage library accessing data storage devices such as cartridges, cassettes, media packages, media access equipment, identification devices, access ports and the like. The rails are divided into a plurality of rail segments. A database holds information about each rail segment. The database is updated based on use of each rail segment by the robotic devices. Data is generated and displayed to describe the use of each rail segment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of monitoring status in a data storage library having a plurality of robotic devices traveling on rails within the data storage library, each robotic device operative to access a plurality of data storage devices, the method comprising: dividing the rails into a plurality of rail segments; establishing a database comprising information about each rail segment; updating the database based on use of each rail segment by robotic devices; and generating data describing the use of each rail segment. 2. A method of monitoring status in a data storage library as in claim 1 further comprising: generating a display having a plurality of display elements, each display element representative of one rail segment; positioning each display element relative to other display elements in the display to reflect positioning of corresponding rail segments within the data storage library; and updating the display based on data generated to describe the use of each rail segment. 3. A method of monitoring status in a data storage library as in claim 1 wherein generating data comprises determining a mechanical condition of each rail segment. 4. A method of monitoring status in a data storage library as in claim 1 wherein generating data comprises determining an electrical condition of each rail segment. 5. A method of monitoring status in a data storage library as in claim 1 wherein generating data comprises determining distance of robotic device travel along each rail segment. 6. A method of monitoring status in a data storage library as in claim 1 wherein generating data comprises determining ease of travel of robotic devices along each rail segment. 7. A data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations for holding data storage media disposed within the library; at least one rail disposed within the library, each rail located to provide access to storage locations, each rail logically divided into at least one rail segment; at least one robotic device mounted to travel along each rail, the robotic device accessing storage media held in the storage locations; a database holding operational status information about the data storage library, the information arranged according to rail segment; a graphical display for displaying the condition of each rail segment as a graphical element, each graphical element positioned on the display relative to other graphical elements so as to have the same logical relationship as the position of the rail segment corresponding to the graphical element relative to rail segments corresponding to other displayed graphical elements; and control logic in communication with each rail, each robotic device, the database and the graphical display, the control logic operative to (a) monitor an operating condition of each rail segment, (b) record the operating condition of each rail segment in the database, (c) determine an operating fault with any rail segment, and (d) update the display based on the determined operating fault. 8. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein the graphical display is further operative to display the location of each robotic device. 9. A data storage library as in claim 7 further comprising at least one data storage access device for accessing data stored on storage media, the graphical display further operative to display the operational status of at least one data storage access device. 10. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein each graphical element displays a mechanical health of the rail segment corresponding to the graphical element. 11. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein each graphical element displays an electrical health of the rail segment corresponding to the graphical element. 12. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein each graphical element displays an indication of the amount of robotic device travel on the rail segment corresponding to the graphical element. 13. A data storage library as in claim 7 wherein each graphical element displays an indication of the ease of robotic device travel on the rail segment corresponding to the graphical element. 14. A method of diagnosing the condition of an automated data storage library comprising: determining the location of each robotic device operating within the library; determining a rail segment supporting each robotic device based on the determined location; accumulating usage information of each determined rail segment; recording the usage information associated with each rail segment; and determining usage alarms based on the accumulated usage information. 15. A method of displaying the status of an automated data storage library comprising: dividing each rail upon which robotic devices travel into rail segments; receiving a request to display at least one rail; generating graphical symbols for rail segments comprising each requested rail; displaying the rail segment graphical symbols on a display screen so as to create a logical representation of each requested rail; and displaying on the display screen an indication of the status of each rail segment comprising each requested rail. 16. A method of displaying the status of an automated data storage library as in claim 15 further comprising: determining that a problem has occurred on a rail segment; automatically displaying the rail segment graphical symbols for the rail including the rail segment with the operational problem; and highlighting the rail segment graphical symbol corresponding to the rail segment with the operational problem. 17. A method of monitoring status of an automated data storage library comprising: correlating operation of each robotic device within the data storage library to a guide rail segment currently supporting the robotic device; and mapping reliability statistics generated from robotic device operation to each guide rail segment. 18. A method of monitoring status of an automated data storage library as in claim 17 further comprising displaying the reliability statistics on a display screen, each reliability statistic displayed in association with a display of the guide rail segment with which the reliability statistic is mapped. 