A propulsion mechanism is provided for driving a vehicle having a frame and socket. The propulsion mechanism has a spherical ball disposed within the socket and adapted to frictionally engage the ground surface. First and second powered drive members are frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle. The first and second powered drive members drive the spherical ball in first and second directions and may be operated simultaneously.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A propulsion mechanism for driving a vehicle having a frame and a socket provided in the frame, said propulsion system comprising: a spherical ball disposed within the socket and adapted to frictionally engage a surface; a first powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle; a second powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle, wherein the first powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a first direction and the second powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a second directions; a first friction reducing load member located substantially on the opposite side of the spherical ball from the first drive member; and a second friction reducing load member located substantially on the opposite side of the spherical ball from the second drive member. 2. The propulsion mechanism as defined in claim 1, wherein the first drive member comprises a first drive wheel, and the second drive member comprises a second drive wheel. 3. The propulsion mechanism as defined in claim 1 further comprising a first motor for powering the first drive member, and a second motor for powering the second drive member. 4. A propulsion mechanism for driving a vehicle having a frame and a socket provided in the frame, said propulsion system comprising: a spherical ball disposed within the socket and adapted to frictionally engage a surface; a first powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle; a second powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle, wherein the first powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a first direction and the second powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a second direction; and a friction reducing member located between the spherical ball and the frame of the vehicle. 5. A propulsion mechanism for driving a vehicle having a frame and a socket provided in the frame, said propulsion system comprising: a spherical ball disposed within the socket and adapted to frictionally engage a surface; a first powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle; and a second powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle, wherein the first powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a first direction and the second powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a second direction, and wherein the first direction is offset from the second direction. 6. The propulsion mechanism as defined in claim 5, wherein the first and second directions are substantially orthogonal. 7. A propulsion mechanism for driving a vehicle having a frame and a socket provided in the frame, said propulsion mechanism comprising: a spherical ball disposed in the socket; a friction reducing member disposed between the spherical ball and the frame for allowing the spherical ball to rotate relative to the frame; and a powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to drive the vehicle. 8. The propulsion mechanism as defined in claim 7, wherein the powered drive member comprises a first powered wheel for rotating the spherical ball in a first direction. 9. The propulsion mechanism as defined in claim 7, wherein the friction reducing member comprises a load wheel located substantially on the opposite side of the spherical ball as compared to the powered drive member. 10. The propulsion mechanism as defined in claim 7, wherein the drive member comprises a first drive wheel for rotating the spherical ball in a first direction and a second drive wheel for rotating the spherical ball in a second direction. 11. The propulsion mechanism as defined in claim 10, wherein the first and second drive wheels are controlled to rotate the spherical ball in any of several directions. 12. A vehicle comprising: a frame; a socket provided in the frame; a first spherical ball disposed within the socket and adapted to frictionally engage a surface; a friction reducing assembly disposed between the spherical ball and the frame for allowing the spherical ball to rotate relative to the frame; a first powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and powered to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle; and a second powered drive member frictionally engaged with the spherical ball and actuatable to rotate the spherical ball to propel the vehicle, wherein the first powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a first direction and the second powered drive member drives the spherical ball in a second direction. 13. The vehicle as defined in claim 12, wherein the friction reducing assembly comprises a first load member located substantially on an opposite side of the spherical ball from the first drive member, and a second load member located substantially on an opposite side of the spherical ball from the second drive member. 14. The vehicle as defined in claim 13, wherein the friction reducing assembly further comprises a caster located between the frame and the spherical ball. 15. The vehicle as defined in claim 12, wherein the first drive member comprises a first drive wheel, and the second drive member comprises a second drive wheel. 16. The vehicle as defined in claim 12, wherein the first and second drive wheels are controlled to rotate the spherical ball in any of several directions. 17. The vehicle as defined in claim 12 further comprising: a second socket provided in the frame; a second spherical ball disposed within a second socket and adapted to frictionally engage a surface; a second friction reducing assembly disposed between the second spherical ball and the frame for allowing the second spherical ball to rotate relative to the frame; a third powered drive member frictionally engaged with the second spherical ball and powered to rotate the second spherical ball to propel the vehicle; and a fourth powered drive member frictionally engaged with the second spherical ball and powered to rotate the second spherical ball to propel the vehicle, wherein the third powered drive member and the second powered drive member drive the second spherical ball in separate directions. 