A pill dispensing system includes a shelving unit in array form that holds a number of bulk containers, each holding a bulk amount of a pill to be dispensed. A computer controlled robot removes a selected bulk container and places it on a counter that also dispenses pills. The robot has an arm with a free end portion that can grip a bulk container or a single pill bottle to be filled. The robot is computer controlled to retrieve an empty pill bottle, place it on a label printing and applying unit, then place it next to the counter/dispenser to receive the selected number of selected prescription pills, then place the filled, labeled bottle on a conveyor. In an alternate embodiment, pill bottles are dispensed from a dispenser that holds bottles on inclined plates and feeds them to a vertical dispensing channel. Gates prevent the flow of bottles from an inclined position until the plate above has been emptied.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of filling a prescription: a) providing a filling workstation area that includes a printer, a plurality of bulk containers, and a plurality of receptacles for holding the bulk containers, each bulk container enabling a bulk amount of pills to be dispensed, each bulk container including indicia identifying the container or pills contained therein; b) receiving a record of prescription information from a computer for a prescription to be filled, the record including at least drug and quantity information; c) dispensing a pill bottle of a selected size to the workstation area using a computer-controlled robotic arm; d) selecting one of the bulk containers and, using the robotic arm to grasp the bulk container, removing the bulk container from its respective receptacle and placing the container on a pill counter; e) verifying that the selected bulk container of step "d" includes pills corresponding to the prescription to be filled; f) the printer printing a prescription label for the prescription to be filled, g) placing the prescription label on the pill bottle while inside the filling workstation area and before step "h"; and h) counting and dispensing the correct number of pills from the bulk container into the pill bottle. 2. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein the indicia on the selected container is a bar code indicia and step "e's" verification process includes scanning the bar code indicia after the label is attached to the pill bottle. 3. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein in step "h" a computer controls dispensing of the correct number of pills. 4. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein instep "f" a computer controls printing of the label and at least part of the information for the label is obtained from the record of prescription information. 5. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, further comprising the step of having a druggist or technician visually inspect the pill bottle and confirm that the prescription has been properly filled. 6. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, further comprising the step of having a druggist or technician confirm that the information printed on the label corresponds to the drug dispensed. 7. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein in step "f" the prescription label is not printed until at about the same time and before the prescription is ready to be filled. 8. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, further comprising the step of having the robotic arm grip the pill bottle in step "c". 9. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein the receptacles are positioned in an array having a curved front and the robotic arm rotates to access the receptacles. 10. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein the counter is controlled with a computer. 11. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein, after placing the bulk container on the counter, the pill bottle is moved from a pill bottle dispenser to a label printer and applier wherein the prescription label is printed and affixed to the pill bottle. 12. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, further comprising the step of moving the pill bottle with the robotic arm to a conveyor after pill bottle has been filled. 13. The method of filling a prescription in claim 1, wherein in step "f " the label includes drug and quantity information. 14. The method of filling a prescription in claim 13, wherein in step "f" the label includes additional information beyond drug and quantity information. 15. The method of filling a prescription in claim 14, wherein in step "f" the additional information at least includes a patient name, doctor name, and instructions. 16. A method of filling a prescription comprising the steps of: a) providing a filling workstation area that includes a shelving unit and plurality of bulk containers on the shelving unit, the shelving unit having a plurality of receptacles for holding respective bulk containers, each bulk container holding a bulk amount of pills to be dispensed, each container including indicia identifying the container or pills contained therein; b) having a printer located inside the filling workstation area for printing a prescription label; c) receiving a record of prescription information from a computer for a prescription to be filled, the record including at least drug and quantity information; d) providing a pill bottle of a selected size to the workstation area and next to the printer using a computer-controller robotic arm; e) selecting one of the bulk containers, verifying that the selected bulk container includes pills corresponding to the prescription to be filled and, using the robotic arm to grasp the bulk container, removing the bulk container from its respective receptacle and placing the container on a pill counter; f) having the printer print a prescription label for the prescription to be filled; g) placing the prescription label on the pill bottle while inside the filling workstation area and before step "h"; and h) wherein, only if verification in step "e" is confirmed, proceeding to dispense the correct number of pills from the bulk container into the pill bottle. 17. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein in step "h" if the verification is not confirmed preventing the dispensing of pills from the bulk container into the pill bottle. 18. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein the indicia on the selected container is a bar code indicia and step "e's" verification includes scanning the bar code indicia. 19. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein in step "h" a computer controls dispensing of the correct number of pills. 20. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein in step "f" a computer controls printing of the label and at least part of the information for the label is obtained from the record of prescription information. 21. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, further comprising the step of having a druggist or technician visually inspect the pill bottle and confirm that the prescription has been properly filled. 22. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, further comprising the step of having a druggist or technician confirm that the information printed on the label corresponds to the drug dispensed. 23. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein in step "f" the prescription label is not printed until at about the same time and before the prescription is ready to be filled. 24. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, further comprising the step of having the robotic arm grip the pill bottle in step "d". 25. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein the receptacles are positioned in an array having a curved front and the robotic arm rotates to access the receptacles. 26. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein the counter is controlled with a computer. 27. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein, after placing the bulk container on the counter, the pill bottle is moved from a pill bottle dispenser to a label printer and applier wherein the prescription label is printed and affixed to the pill bottle. 28. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, further comprising the step of moving the pill bottle with the robotic arm to a conveyor after it-has been filled. 29. The method of filling a prescription in claim 16, wherein in step "f" the label includes drug and quantity information. 30. The method of filling a prescription in claim 29, wherein in step "f" the label includes additional information beyond drug and quantity information. 31. The method of filling a prescription in claim 30, wherein in step "f" the additional information at least includes a patient name, doctor name, and instructions. 32. A method of automatically filling a prescription using a station that includes a label printer and applier, a plurality of containers and a plurality of receptacles for holding the containers, each container enabling a number of pills to be dispensed therefrom, a counter, a pill bottle dispenser, and a robot for moving said pill bottles and said containers within said station, said method comprising automatically: moving a selected container to said counter; moving a selected pill bottle from said pill bottle dispenser to said printer and applier; printing and applying a label to said selected pill bottle; moving the labeled pill bottle to said counter; dispensing a number of pills from said selected container to said labeled pill bottle; removing said labeled pill bottle from said counter; and removing said selected container from said counter. 33. The method of claim 32 additionally comprising counting a predetermined number of pills into a chute, and wherein said dispensing includes opening a door of said chute to enable said pills to travel in said pill bottle. 34. The method of claim 32 additionally comprising moving a cassette to a replenishment-out port. 35. The method of claim 34 additionally comprising scanning a bar code on a cassette in a replenish-in port, and moving the cassette from the replenish-in port to a storage receptacle based on the scanned information. 36. A method of automatically filling a prescription comprising automatically: moving a selected container between its receptacle and a counter; moving a selected pill bottle among a pill bottle dispenser, a label and applier, said counter, and an output conveyor; printing and applying a label to said selected pill bottle with said label and applier; and dispensing a number of pills from said selected container to said labeled pill bottle with said counter. 