The present invention provides a welding system and methodology to facilitate communications and control. The system includes a cell controller to control one or more welders over a control network. An interface module associated with the cell controller and the control network communicates with the welders and employs a communications protocol adapted to the interface module to facilitate communications and control between the cell controller and the one or more welders over the control network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding system, comprising: a cell controller to control two or more welders over a control network, thereby facilitating separate control of the two or more welders; a singular communication interface module associated with the cell controller and the control network to communicate with the one or more welders; and a communications protocol adapted to the interface module to facilitate communications and control between the cell controller and the two or more welders Over the control network. 2. The system of claim 1, the interface module and communications protocol configured according to at least one of Device Net, Control Net, ProfiBus, User Datagram Protocol (UDP), Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), and ArcLink. 3. The system of claim 1, the interface module communicates at least one of: command, configuration, set point, status and feedback information between the cell controller and the one or more welders. 4. The system of claim 1, the communications protocol includes at least one of: a header, a node address, a control layer, a data layer, an error check layer, and an end packet. 5. The system of claim 1, father comprising fault detection and maintenance routines to diagnose problems within the welding system. 6. The system of claim 1, the interface module configured to transfer data between data stores associated with the one or more welding systems and a data store on the cell controller. 7. The system of claim 6, the interface module configured to transfer data between the one or more welders. 8. The system of violin 1, the one or more welders configured in a redundant configuration having an active welder and a standby welder. 9. The system of claim 8, further comprising a controller to control switching between the active welder and the standby welder. 10. The system of claim 1, the one or more welders configured in a tandem configuration having coordinated welders. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a controller and associated commands to synchronize the coordinated welders over the control network, the commands including at least one of: adjustable time delay commands for starting and stopping a frail or lead arc, time commands and settings for a crater fill of the trail and lead arcs, feedback detection status for arc detection and collision sense, safety stop commands for termination of a weld cycle, trigger commands for on or off timing, sending suitable output command levels per respective welder to achieve a desired weld profile, applying suitable procedures per respective welder to achieve a desired weld profile. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising a universal clock to enable the synchronization. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one other cell controller having an associated interface module to provide multi-cell communications and coordination. 14. The system of claim 13, the at least one other cell controller enabling transfer of control and data between the one or more welders and one or mare other welders. 15. A welding communications method, comprising: communicating and controlling two or more welders over a control network, thereby facilitating separate control of two or more welders; adapting a singular interface to the control network to communicate and control the one or more welders; mid providing a protocol with the interface to facilitate communications and control of the two or more welders over the control network. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising communicating at least one of: command, configuration, set point, status and feedback information to the one or more welders. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising providing a multi-layered protocol to facilitate communications and control. 18. The method of claim 15, further comprising providing fault detection to diagnose problems within the welding system. 19. The method of claim 15, further comprising transferring information between the one or more welders to coordinate a welding process. 20. The method of claim 15, further comprising adapting the one or more welders in a redundant configuration. 21. The system of claim 15, further comprising adapting the one or more welders in a tandem configuration utilizing coordinated welders. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising synchronizing the coordinated welders. 23. The method of claim 15, further comprising utilizing multiple communications channels to enable multi-veil communications and coordination. 24. A welding system, comprising: means for communicating to two or more welders over a control network, thereby facilitating separate control of the two or more welders; means for interfacing to the control network to communicate with the one or more welders; and means for adapting a protocol to facilitate communications with the one or more welders over the control network. 25. A tandem welding system, comprising: a cell controller to control coordinated welders over a control network; a singular communications interface module associated with the cell controller and the control network to communicate with the coordinated welders; and a command protocol adapted to the interface module to facilitate communications and control between the cell controller and the coordinated welders over the control network. 26. The system of claim 25, the command protocol further comprising commends to synchronize the coordinated welders over the control network, the commands including at least one of: adjustable time delay commands for starting and stopping a trail or lead arc, time commands and settings for a crater fill of the trail and lead arcs, feedback detection status for arc detection and collision sense, safety stop commands for termination of a weld cycle, trigger commands for on or off timing, and commands to achieve a desired weld profile. 