A method for cleaning the bottom of a pool uses an automated programmed pool cleaner capable of reversing movement and turning that is initially placed at an arbitrary location on the bottom of the pool and moved in a forward direction until it encounters an upright pool wall; the unit is reversed until it is a first predetermined distance from the wall, turned through a predetermined angle less than 180.degree. and advanced until it again encounters an upright wall; these steps are repeated until the unit has encountered upright walls a predetermined number of times, after which the first predetermined distance is changed to one or more subsequent predetermined distances. All of the previous steps are repeated until all or substantially all of the pool has been cleaned. In a preferred embodiment, a rectangular pool is cleaned by setting the turning angle to 90.degree. and the number of turns before changing the predetermined distance to seven. In another aspect of the invention, the unit has a rotary impeller driven in a horizontal plane, and the robot is turned by interrupting motive force to the impeller a plurality of times during a predetermined period of time to create a sufficient torque or torsional force to rotate the nearly neutrally buoyant unit through the desired turning angle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning the bottom surface of a pool using a robotic pool cleaner capable of movement in a forward direction and a reverse direction, the pool cleaner initially placed at an arbitrary location on the pool surface, the method comprising the steps of: moving the pool cleaner in the forward direction until it encounters an upright wall of the pool; moving the pool cleaner in the reverse direction until it reaches a predetermined distance from the upright wall; turning the pool cleaner through a predetermined angle less than 180.degree.; moving the pool cleaner in the reverse direction until it encounters an upright wall of the pool; moving the pool cleaner in the forward direction until it encounters an upright wall of the pool; repeating the above steps until the pool cleaner has encountered an upright wall of the pool a predetermined number of times, and then changing the predetermined distance to a different predetermined distance; and repeating the above steps until a substantial area of the floor of the pool has been cleaned by the pool cleaner. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined angle varies in a selected number of said turning steps as the floor of the pool is cleaned. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the pool cleeaner is initially placed proximate to an upright side end wall of the pool. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the pool cleaner is initially displaced from the side end wall of the pool a distance of from one to three times a width of the robot. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined angle is substantially equal to 90.degree.. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined angle positions the pool cleaner so that its forward direction of movement is perpendicular to a facing upright wall of the pool. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the different predetermined distance is greater than the predetermined distance. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein a final change of the predetermined distance provides a different predetermined distance approximately equal to one-half of the distance between two opposing upright side end walls. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the different predetermined distance is less than the predetermined distance. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the pool cleaner is initially placed approximately equidistant between two opposing upright side end walls of the pool. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the pool cleaner turns to the right in said turning step. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the pool cleaner turns to the left in said turning step. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined number of times is seven. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the difference between each predetermined distance and each different predetermined distance is constant. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the pool cleaner is propelled in the forward and reverse directions by a single drive motor and includes a rotary impeller driven by the motor in a substantially horizontal plane, said turning step being executed by interrupting the motive force to the impeller for at least one predetermined period during which the motive force is interrupted a plurality of times to impart a sideways directed bias momentum to turn the robot. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of times is between 15 and 25. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the predetermined period lasts for about 10 to 20 seconds. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein each interruption of the motive force lasts for about 0.5 to 0.8 seconds. 19. A method for turning a pool-cleaning robot having a rotary impeller driven in a substantially horizontal plane, the method comprising the step of interrupting the motive force to the impeller for at least one predetermined period of time during which the motive force is interrupted a plurality of times to impart a sideways directed bias momentum for turning the robot. 20. The method of 19, wherein the plurality of times is between 15 and 25. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the predetermined period of time lasts for about 10 to 20 seconds. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein each interruption of the motive force lasts for about 0.5 to 0.8 seconds. 23. A pool cleaning robot comprising: a reversible motorized drive capable of propelling the robot along a floor of the pool in a forward direction and of a reverse direction, and of turning the robot; a wall encounter sensor for providing an encounter signal when the robot reaches an upright wall of the pool; a controller connected to said drive for propelling the robot in the forward and reverse directions and turning the robot upon receiving command signals; and a processor connected to said controller and said sensor and having stored therein an algorithm for providing the command signals to said controller in response to the encounter signals, such that the robot is moved along the pool floor in a path including: movement in the forward direction until said sensor provides the proximity signal to said processor, movement in the reverse direction for a predetermined distance from the upright wall, turning the robot through a predetermined angle that is less than 180.degree., movement in the reverse direction until said sensor provides the proximity signal to said processor, movement in the forward direction until said sensor provides the proximity signal to said processor, repeating the above movements until a predetermined number of proximity signals has been provided, wherein the predetermined distance is changed to a different predetermined distance, and repeating the above movements until a substantial area of the pool floor has been covered by the robot. 24. The robot of claim 23, wherein said sensor comprises a proximity sensor, a collision sensor, a tilt sensor, or a sonar sensor. 25. The robot of claim 23, wherein said drive includes a reversible motorized caterpillar drive. 26. The robot of claim 23, further comprising a GPS receiver for determining the position and direction of movement of the robot. 27. A pool cleaning robot comprising: a reversible motorized drive capable of propelling the robot along a floor of the pool in a forward direction and a reverse direction; a rotary impeller driven by said drive in a substantially horizontal plane; a controller connected to said drive for propelling the robot in the forward and reverse directions and turning the robot upon receiving command signals; and a processor connected to said controller and having stored therein an algorithm for providing the command signals to said controller such the robot is moved along the floor of the pool in a path including: changing the direction of movement of the robot, and turning the robot by interrupting the motive force to said impeller for at least one predetermined period during which the motive force is interrupted a plurality of times to impart a sideways directed bias momentum to turn the robot. 28. The robot of claim 27, wherein said drive includes a reversible motorized caterpillar drive. 29. The robot of claim 27, further comprising a GPS receiver for determining the position and direction of movement of the robot. 