Methods and apparatus for controllably dispensing fluids within wafer track modules using rotatable liquid dispense arms and nozzles. The fluid dispense apparatus may be specifically selected for developing a photoresist-coated substrate. A series of one or more rotatable arms can be mounted adjacent to a mounted substrate within a develop module, wherein each arm supports a dispense nozzle that is connected to a fluid source. The dispense nozzle may be formed with a plurality of nozzle tips for dispensing selected developer and rinse fluids. Each rotatable arm can be configured to rotate about its longitudinal axis to selectively position the dispense nozzle between various dispense positions and non-dispense positions to reduce risk of dripping solution onto the substrate. Methods for developing photoresist-coated semiconductor wafers are also provided herein using developer and rinse fluid dispense apparatus with a dispense arm that is rotatable about its longitudinal axis. While in a dispense position, the arm or nozzle itself can be rotated so as to direct nozzle tips towards a wafer surface which facilitates fluid dispense onto the surface. While in the non-dispense position, the nozzle tips may be directed away from the wafer surface to reduce the likelihood of any undesired drips falling thereon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for developing a photoresist-coated substrate comprising: a spin chuck for supporting and rotating the photoresist-coated substrate; a developer source to supply at least one developer solution to be dispensed onto a substrate surface; and a rotatable arm mounted adjacent to the spin chuck for supporting a dispense nozzle that is in fluid communication with the developer source through at least one fluid channel, wherein the dispense nozzle is formed with a plurality of nozzle tips for dispensing developer solution onto the photoresist-coated substrate surface; and wherein the rotatable arm is configured to rotate about a longitudinal axis defined along its length to selectively position the dispense nozzle between: a dispense position that directs the nozzle tips in a direction substantially towards the substrate surface; and a non-dispense position that directs the nozzle tips substantially away from the substrate surface to reduce risk of dripping developer solution onto the substrate. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rotatable arm includes a first motor-driven actuator for rotating the arm about its longitudinal axis, and a second motor-driven actuator for sweeping the rotatable arm across selected regions above the substrate. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the nozzle tips are directed away from the substrate surface at an angle ranging from approximately 0 to 90 degrees relative to the substrate surface while positioned in the non-dispense position. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the nozzle tips are directed away from and parallel to the substrate surface. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least some of the nozzle tips are formed in a relatively linear pattern to provide a row of nozzle tips that has a predetermined length equal to approximately one-half of the diameter of the substrate. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rotatable arm is configured as a radial arm mounted on a support post allowing pivotal movement about an axis for moving the dispense nozzle above the substrate along a predefined arc pathway. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the predefined arc pathway includes a position substantially above a central portion of the substrate. 8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rotatable arm is a linear track arm for moving the dispense nozzle above the substrate along an X-axis direction. 9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the arm further includes an extendible portion for extending the dispense nozzle directly above preselected portions of the entire substrate along a Y-axis direction. 10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rotatable arm is configured as a telescopic arm. 11. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rotatable arm further includes a vertical extendible member for moving the dispense nozzle in a relatively up-and-down direction along a Z-axis direction. 12. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a rotatable rinse arm mounted adjacent to the spin chuck for supporting a rinse nozzle that is in fluid communication with a fluid rinse source through at least one rinse fluid channel, wherein the rinse nozzle is formed with a plurality of rinse nozzle tips for dispensing rinse fluid onto the substrate surface; and wherein the rinse arm is configured to rotate about a longitudinal axis defined along its length in order to selectively position the rinse nozzle between: a rinse position that directs the rinse nozzle tips in a direction substantially towards the substrate surface; and a non-rinse position that directs the rinse nozzle tips substantially away from the substrate surface to reduce risk of dripping rinse fluid onto the substrate. 13. An apparatus for supporting a fluid dispenser in a wafer track system with reduced dripping comprising: a fluid dispense nozzle formed with at least one nozzle opening that is connected to a fluid source containing material to be dispensed onto a wafer substrate; and a movable support for holding the fluid dispense nozzle above a selected portion of the wafer substrate, and wherein the support is further rotatable about its longitudinal axis to alternate between: a non-dispense state whereby the nozzle opening is rotated in a direction substantially pointed away from the wafer substrate; and a dispense state whereby the nozzle opening is rotated in a direction substantially pointed towards the wafer substrate for dispensing material onto the wafer substrate. 14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the movable support is a linear track arm formed with a telescopic portion. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the movable support is a radial arm movable about a pivot point. 16. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the fluid source contains a developer solution. 17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the fluid source contains deionized water. 18. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the fluid dispense nozzle includes a side portion, and wherein an inlet is formed along the side portion of the nozzle to provide fluid communication between the nozzle and the fluid source. 19. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the fluid dispense nozzle includes a top portion, and wherein an inlet is formed along the top portion of the nozzle to provide fluid communication between the nozzle and the fluid source. 20. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising a drip shield mounted to the fluid dispense nozzle for capturing residual drips when the fluid dispense nozzle is not positioned in a dispense state. 21. The apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein the nozzle opening is formed at the end of a nozzle tip, and wherein the drip shield includes an extended flange for capturing residual drips falling from the nozzle tip. 22. The apparatus as claimed in claim 20, wherein the fluid dispense nozzle is formed with at least one exhaust orifice connected to an exhaust source to remove material captured by the drip shield. 23. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising a suck-through screen mounted to the fluid dispense nozzle for capturing residual drips. 24. The apparatus as claimed in claim 23, wherein the fluid dispense nozzle is formed with a series of exhaust orifices connected to a vacuum source to suck material from the area surrounding the screen through the suck-through screen. 25. A method of developing a photoresist-coated semiconductor wafer comprising the following steps of: spinning the photoresist-coated wafer on a spin chuck; selecting a developer arm that includes a dispense nozzle that is formed with fluid openings, wherein the developer arm is rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the developer arm to selectively rotate the dispense nozzle between a dispense position and a non-dispense position relative to the wafer; positioning the developer arm above a selected portion of the wafer wherein the dispense nozzle is rotated in a non-dispense position; rotating the developer arm about its longitudinal axis to position the dispense nozzle into a dispense-position over above the selected portion of the wafer; dispensing a predetermined amount of at least one developer through the fluid openings of the dispense nozzle over the selected portion of the wafer; rotating the developer arm about its longitudinal axis to position the dispense nozzle into a non-dispense position to reduce the likelihood of dripping developer onto the wafer; and positioning the developer arm at selected location away from the wafer and spin chuck. 26. A method of dispensing a fluid onto a semiconductor wafer with reduced dripping comprising the following steps of: selecting a fluid dispense arm that includes a dispense nozzle that is formed with fluid openings, wherein the arm is rotatable about its longitudinal axis to selectively rotate the dispense nozzle between a dispense position and a non-dispense position relative to the wafer; positioning the dispense arm above a selected portion of the wafer; rotating the dispense arm about its longitudinal axis to position the dispense nozzle into a dispense position; dispensing a predetermined amount of the fluid through the fluid openings of the dispense nozzle over the selected portion of the wafer; rotating the dispense arm about its longitudinal axis to position the dispense nozzle into a non-dispense position to reduce the risk of dripping fluid onto the wafer wherein the fluid openings of the dispense nozzle are directed substantially away from the wafer surface; and positioning the dispense arm at selected location away from the wafer. 27. The method as recited in claim 26, further comprising the step of: rotating the arm into a non-dispense position prior to positioning the arm above a selected portion of the wafer. 28. The method as recited in claim 26, further comprising the step of: selecting a horizontal arm extendible in the direction of a Y-axis to support the nozzle and a drive mechanism for linearly moving the arm in the direction of an X-axis in a horizontal plane. 29. The method as recited in claim 26, positioning the nozzle above the substrate so that the row of nozzle tips are substantially positioned along a selected radius of the substrate to form a film substantially covering the entire substrate surface. 30. The method as recited in claim 29, wherein the nozzle tips are positioned approximately 5 to 25 mm above the substrate. 