A data storage library is disclosed that provides a variable sized load/unload area within the library. The data storage library includes a housing defining an exterior and an interior region, storage slots disposed in the interior region for storing data cartridges, a barrier door, a front door, and a controller. The barrier door has a closed position for dividing the interior region into a first interior region and a second interior region. Thus, the interior region is divided into two regions when the barrier door is closed. The controller closes the barrier door prior to the front door being opened, and opens the barrier door after the front door is closed. Thus, access is permitted to only the first interior region from the exterior region when the front door is opened. The first interior region is sized to permit a user to entirely physically enter the first interior region.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage library comprising: a housing defining an exterior and an interior region including a plurality of storage slots disposed in the interior region for storing data cartridges; a barrier door disposed within said interior region, said barrier door having a closed position for dividing said interior region into a first interior region and a second interior region; a controller for closing said barrier door prior to a front door being opened and for opening said barrier door after said front door is closed; said front door permitting access to only said first interior region from said exterior region when said front door is opened, said first interior region being sized to permit a user to entirely physically enter said first interior region; a robotic mechanism disposed in said interior region for accessing said plurality of storage slots when said library is online; and said library remaining online with said robotic mechanism being located within said second interior region when said front door is opened and said barrier door is closed. 2. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: said plurality of data cartridges being stationary. 3. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: when said barrier door is closed, a first plurality of said plurality of storage slots being included in said first interior region and a second plurality of said plurality of storage slots being included in said second interior region. 4. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: said closed position of said barrier door being adjustable within said interior region to different horizontal locations between first and second interior end walls of said housing, said first and second interior end walls being horizontally disposed within said housing from one another. 5. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: said controller for receiving a command to open said front door; said controller for closing said barrier door in response to a receipt of said command to open said front door; and said controller for opening said front door after said barrier door is closed. 6. The library according to claim 5, further comprising: said controller for receiving a command to close said front door; said controller for closing said front door in response to a receipt of said command to close said front door; and said controller for opening said barrier door after said front door has closed. 7. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: said closed position of said barrier door being adjustable within said interior region between first and second interior end walls of said housing; said controller for receiving a command defining a size of said first interior region; said controller for determining a location between said first and second interior end walls for placing said closed barrier door; and said controller for closing said barrier door at said location to create said first interior region that is said size. 8. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: said front door prohibiting access to said interior region from said exterior region when said front door is closed. 9. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: said barrier door having an open position wherein said interior region remains one region when said barrier door is open. 10. The library according to claim 1, further comprising: said barrier door being disposed at a first location within said interior region; and a second barrier door disposed at a second location within said interior region, wherein said second barrier door has a closed position for dividing said second interior region into a third interior region and a fourth interior region, wherein said interior region is divided into three regions when said barrier door and said second barrier door are closed. 11. A method in a data storage library for creating a variable sized customer access port, said library having a plurality of stationary storage slots for storing data cartridges, a housing defining an exterior and an interior region, said library including a robotic mechanism, said method comprising: receiving a command to open a front door; prior to opening said front door: moving said robotic mechanism to a first end of said interior region; and closing a barrier door within said interior region to create a first interior region and a second interior region within said interior region, said barrier door dividing said interior region into said first and second interior regions when said barrier door is closed, said first end of said interior region being within said second interior region; opening a front door to permit a user to entirely physically enter said first interior region; accessing a first plurality of slots included within second interior region by said robotic mechanism while said barrier door is closed, said library remaining online while said barrier door is closed; and permitting a user to access a second plurality of slots that are included in said first interior region while said user is physically within said first interior region while said library remains online and said barrier door is closed. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: adjusting a horizontal position of said barrier door between said first end and a second end of said interior region, said first and second ends of said interior region being horizontally disposed from one another. 13. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: receiving by a controller a command to open said front door; closing said barrier door by said controller in response to a receipt of said command; and opening said front door by said controller only after said barrier door is closed. 14. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: receiving by a controller a command to close said front door; closing said front door by a controller in response to a receipt of said command; opening said barrier door by a controller only after said front door is closed. 15. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: said barrier door having a closed position and an open position; receiving a command by a controller defining a first size of said first interior region; determining a horizontal location within said interior region for placing said closed barrier door that will create said first interior region of said first size; moving said barrier door to said location; and closing said barrier door at said location. 16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising the step of: moving said barrier door while said barrier door is in its open position to said location. 17. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: prohibiting access by said front door to said interior region from said exterior region when said front door is closed. 18. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: prohibiting access by said barrier door to said second interior region from said first interior region when said barrier door is closed. 