Arrays of polypeptides are generated by translation of nucleic acid sequences encoding the polypeptides at a plurality of addresses on the array.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method comprising: providing a substrate that comprises a plurality of addresses, each address comprising (i) a nucleic acid encoding a hybrid amino acid sequence comprising a test amino acid sequence and an affinity tag, and (ii) a binding agent that recognizes the affinity tag; contacting each address of the plurality with a translation effector to thereby translate the hybrid amino acid sequence; and maintaining the substrate under conditions permissive for the hybrid amino acid sequence to bind the binding agent. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting cells to the substrate and evaluating the cells or a parameter of the cells. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting members of a display library to the substrate. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting a patient sample to the substrate. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising further comprising detecting binding of the patient sample to the array. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising recording results of the detecting in a database. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the test amino acid sequences at the plurality of addresses comprise allergens and/or auto-immune antigens. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the test amino acid sequences at the plurality of addresses comprise naturally occurring sequences. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the test amino acid sequences at the plurality of addresses comprise bacterial antigens. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the test amino acid sequences at the plurality of addresses comprise viral antigens. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the viral antigens comprise antigens from a rotavirus, hepatitis virus, herpes virus, papilloma virus and/or a retrovirus. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the test amino acid sequences at the plurality of addresses comprise artificial amino acid sequences. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the test amino acid sequences at the plurality of addresses comprise transmembrane proteins whose transmembrane domains have been excised. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the test amino acid sequences at the plurality of addresses comprise randomized amino acid sequences. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the test amino acid sequence comprises an immunoglobulin variable domain. 16. A The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting endoplasmic reticulum vesicles to the array. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein each address contains less than 1 ng of the nucleic acid. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein each address contains less than 10 pg of the nucleic acid. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein each address further comprises a nucleic acid encoding a modifying enzyme. 20. The method of claim 1 wherein the modifying enzyme is varied among the addresses of the plurality. 21. The method of claim 1 further comprising evaluating the substrate for a fluorescence. 22. The method of claim 1 further comprising evaluating the substrate using mass spectroscopy. 23. The method of claim 1 further comprising evaluating the substrate for a fluorescent property. 24. The method of claim 1 further comprising evaluating the substrate for an enzymatic property. 25. The method of claim 1 further comprising evaluating the plurality of addresses on the substrate, and recording results of the evaluating in records of a database. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising clustering the records to identify addresses which are related. 27. The method of claim 25 further comprising making results of the evaluating accessible to a network of health care providers. 28. The method of claim 25 further comprising making results of the evaluating accessible to a physician. 29. The method of claim 1 wherein the providing of the substrate comprises: providing a collection of nucleic acids, each member of the collection being compatible with a recombinational cloning system and including an open reading frame of interest; recombining members of the collection with a recipient nucleic and that comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding an affinity tag such that the open reading frame is linked in frame to the nucleic acid sequence encoding the affinity tag; and disposing nucleic acid derived from the recombination at addresses of the plurality of addresses. 30. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting each address of the plurality with a transcription effector. 31. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting each address of the plurality with a transcription effector and a translation effector. 32. The method of claim 1 wherein the translation effector comprises a translation extract prepared from cells. 33. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting each address of the plurality with a chaperone. 34. The method of claim 1 wherein each test amino acid sequence is unique. 35. The method of claim 1 wherein the affinity tag is separated from the test amino acid sequence by at least five amino acids. 36. The method of claim 1 wherein the affinity tag encoded by the nucleic acid at each address of the plurality is the same. 37. The method of claim 1 wherein the affinity tag encoded by the nucleic acid at an address of the plurality differs from at least one other affinity tag in the plurality of addresses. 38. The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acid is DNA. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein the nucleic acid is double stranded DNA. 40. The method of claim 38 wherein the nucleic acid comprises an operably linked transcription promoter. 41. The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acid comprises an internal ribosome entry site. 42. The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acid comprises a plurality of cistrons. 43. The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acid comprises a sequence that encodes a reporter protein. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the reporter protein can produce or modulate light. 45. The method of claim 1 wherein the transcription promoter is a prokaryotic promoter. 46. The method of claim 1 wherein the amino acid sequence comprises an intein. 47. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate is partitioned. 48. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises at least 1 address per 2 cm. 49. The method of claim 48 wherein the substrate comprises at least 10 addresses per cm.sup.2. 50. The method of claim 1 wherein the binding agent comprises a biological polymer. 51. The method of claim 1 wherein the binding agent is covalently attached to the substrate. 52. The method of claim 1 wherein the binding agent is attached by a bridging moiety. 53. The method of claim 1 wherein the binding agent is an antibody. 54. The method of claim 1 wherein the affinity tag comprises a polypeptide sequence which can chelate metal. 55. The method of claim 54 wherein the affinity tag comprises hexa-histidine. 56. The method of claim 1 wherein the affinity tag comprises a protein selected from the group consisting of glutathione-S-transferase, chitin binding protein, cellulase, maltose binding protein, dihydrofolate reductase, and FK506 binding protein (FKBP). 57. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting each address of the plurality with a protein-modifying enzyme. 58. The method of claim 1 wherein the nucleic acid comprises a site-specific recombination site. 59. The method of claim 1 wherein each address comprises a plurality of nucleic acid sequences, each encoding a unique test amino acid sequence and an affinity tag. 60. The method of claim 1 wherein the providing comprises mechanically delivering the nucleic acid to each address of the plurality of addresses. 61. The method of claim 1 wherein the providing comprises amplifying a template nucleic acid to provide a nucleic acid for each address of the plurality of addresses. 62. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate is glass. 63. The method of claim 62 wherein the substrate is a glass slide. 64. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate comprises a planar array. 