A flexible platform or plate holder for use with liquid handling robots. More specifically a flexible platform for use with a variety of plate holders which allows for complete removal of a sample from a well without the need for liquid sensors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A platform for a liquid-handling robot having at least one robot nozzle for transferring or treating a liquid sample in a sample holder by moving upward and downward, comprising: a sample platform for receiving the sample holder; an adapter platform for fitting onto the liquid-handling robot; and a moveable connector elastically connecting the sample platform and the adapter platform, wherein elasticity of the connector is adjusted to be lower than the force of the downward movement of the nozzle to elastically lower the sample platform when the nozzle pushes the sample holder downward, and wherein said moveable connector comprises at least one coil spring and at least one support arranged within or near the coil spring. 2. The platform of claim 1, wherein said support is selected from the group consisting of a screw, a shoulder screw, a pin, a nail, and a rod. 3. The platform of claim 1, further comprising a washer. 4. The platform of claim 1, wherein said moveable connector is selected from the group consisting of: a foam pad, a spring assembly, an air cushion, and a magnet. 5. A platform for a liquid-handling robot having at least one robot nozzle for transferring or treating a liquid sample in a sample holder by moving upward and downward, comprising: a sample platform for receiving the sample holder; an adapter platform for fitting onto the liquid-handling robot; a moveable connector elastically connecting the sample platform and the adapter platform, wherein elasticity of the connector is adjusted to be lower than the force of the downward movement of the nozzle to elastically lower the sample platform when the nozzle pushes the sample holder downward, and at least one adapter pin for positioning the adapter platform in the liquid handling robot. 6. A platform for a liquid-handling robot comprising (i) a detachable sample holder having at least one well or groove for a liquid sample; (ii) an adapter for receiving the platform; and (iii) at least one robot nozzle for transferring or treating the sample in the well by moving upward and downward, said platform comprising: (a) an upper surface configured to contact a bottom of the sample holder, (b) a bottom surface configured to contact an upper surface of the adapter, and (c) a mechanism elastically moveable in a direction of movement of the nozzle, wherein elasticity of said platform is adjusted to be lower than the force of the downward movement of the nozzle. 7. The platform of claim 6, wherein the upper surface of the platform is configured to receive a sample holder selected from the group consisting of: a microtiter plate, a PCR plate, a microarray, and a microfluidic plate. 8. The platform of claim 6, wherein the upper surface of the platform is an upper surface of a sample platform, the bottom surface of the platform is a bottom surface of an adapter platform, and the moveable mechanism is constituted between the sample platform and the adapter platform. 9. The platform of claim 8, wherein said moveable mechanism comprises a connector and a spring. 10. The platform of claim 9, wherein said connector is selected from the group consisting of a screw, a pin, a nail, and a rod. 11. The platform of claim 8, further comprising at least one bumper for preventing full compression of the springs. 12. The platform of claim 8, further comprising a helicoil. 13. A method for adapting an automated liquid handler having at least one robot nozzle for transferring or treating a liquid sample in a sample holder by moving upward and downward, comprising attaching a platform comprising: a sample platform for receiving the sample holder; an adapter platform for fitting onto the automated liquid handler; and a moveable connector elastically connecting the sample platform and the adapter platform, wherein elasticity of the connector is adjusted to be lower than the force of the downward movement of the nozzle to elastically lower the sample platform when the nozzle pushes the sample holder downward, to the automated liquid handler to allow for variations in plate and well-size. 14. A method for the complete aspiration of small volumes by an automated liquid handler having at least one robot nozzle for transferring or treating a liquid sample in a sample holder by moving upward and downward, comprising attaching to a liquid plate handler a platform comprising: a sample platform for receiving the sample holder; an adapter platform for fitting onto the automated liquid handler; and a moveable connector elastically connecting the sample platform and the adapter platform, wherein elasticity of the connector is adjusted to be lower than the force of the downward movement of the nozzle to elastically lower the sample platform when the nozzle pushes the sample holder downward. 15. A method for transfer of small volumes by an automated liquid handler having at least one robot nozzle for transferring or treating a liquid sample in a sample holder by moving upward and downward, comprising attaching to a liquid plate handler a platform comprising: a sample platform for receiving the sample holder; an adapter platform for fitting onto the automated liquid handler; and a moveable connector elastically connecting the sample platform and the adapter platform, wherein elasticity of the connector is adjusted to be lower than the force of the downward movement of the nozzle to elastically lower the sample platform when the nozzle pushes the sample holder downward. 16. A method for perfecting the function of microarray spotters having at least one robot nozzle or pin for transferring or treating a liquid sample in a sample holder by moving upward and downward, comprising attaching to an automated liquid handler a platform comprising: a sample platform for receiving the sample holder; an adapter platform for fitting onto the automated liquid handler; and a moveable connector elastically connecting the sample platform and the adapter platform, wherein elasticity of the connector is adjusted to be lower than the force of the downward movement of the nozzle to elastically lower the sample platform when the nozzle pushes the sample holder downward. 17. A platform for any type of liquid handling robot, comprising: a sample platform; an adaptor platform which fits onto the liquid handling robots; and a moveable connector which allows motion on one axis between the two platforms, wherein said movable connector comprises a connector and a spring. 18. The platform of claim 17, wherein said spring is selected from the group consisting of: a standard coiled spring, a conical coiled spring, and a flat spring. 19. The platform of claim 17, wherein said connector is selected from the group consisting of: a screw, a pin a nail, and a rod. 20. The platform of claim 19, wherein said screw is a shoulder screw. 21. The platform of claim 19, wherein said sample platform or said adaptor, or both is manufactured of a material which is inert. 22. A method for adapting liquid plate handlers to allow for variations in plate and well-size, comprising: attaching to a liquid plate handler a platform for any type of liquid handling robot, said platform comprising: a sample platform; an adaptor platform which fits onto the liquid handling robots; and a moveable connector which allows motion on one axis between the two platforms. 23. A method for the complete aspiration of small volumes by an automated liquid handler, comprising: attaching to an automated liquid handler a platform for any type of liquid handling robot, said platform comprising: a sample platform; an adaptor platform which fits onto the liquid handling robots; and a moveable connector which allows motion on one axis between the two platforms. 24. A method for transfer of small volumes by a liquid plate handler, comprising: attaching to an automated liquid handler a platform for any type of liquid handling robot, said platform comprising: a sample platform; an adaptor platform which fits onto the liquid handling robot; and a moveable connector which allows motion on one axis between the two platforms. 