This disclosure describes an apparatus for wrapping all exposed surfaces of a large annular coil, including its hollow cylindrical core, to prevent contamination and to prepare it for shipping. A pair of opposing robotic arms hand off or transfer a roll of wrapping material, such as paper or plastic, from a gripper on one arm to a gripper on the other arm. The arms travel around both ends of the coil, handing off the roll back and forth above the coil and in the center of its hollow core, as it is slowly rotated by a variable-speed coil roller. The speed of the coil roller is adjusted such that the wrap overlaps during each successive pass around the coil, thereby ensuring its sealed integrity. A compact variable-tensioning mechanism, inserted into the roll, maintains constant tension on the wrapping material to keep it taut while being pulled around the coil. The work envelope of the robotic arms traveling around the coil is adjusted to the relative height and width of each new coil to minimize wrap time and reduce wear and tear.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, using a rotating device and at least one movable robotic arm under control of a processor, comprising: generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object; adapting said robotic arm in response to said signals; adapting said rotating device in response to said signals; rotating said annular object about its rotational axis via said rotating device; grasping said roll of wrapping material with a gripper having two opposing surfaces, mounted on said at least one robotic arm; carrying said roll of wrapping material, via said robotic arm, around at least one surface of said annular object as it is rotated by said rotating device, said at least one surface including the inside surface of the object's cylindrical hole; and dispensing said material under tension as it is carried around said annular object by said robotic arm, such that the dispensed sheet of material is wrapped substantially taut across each said surface wrapped; said grasping including securely holding said wrapping material between said opposing surfaces so as to enable said at least one robotic arm to carry the material around said at least one surface of said annular object. 2. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 1, further including: sending command signals to said processor via a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, wherein each of said steps of generating, adapting, rotating, carrying, and dispensing is initiated by pressing at least one of said buttons. 3. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 1, wherein: carrying said wrapping material, via said robotic arm, around said at least one surface of said annular object, includes at least the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole. 4. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material as in claim 1, at a plurality of wrapping stations, each station having its own rotating device to rotate one of said plurality of objects, wherein said at least one robotic arm includes a pair of robotic arms, further comprising: rotating a first annular object at a first wrapping station via a first rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said first annular object via said pair of robotic arms; moving said pair of robotic arms between said first wrapping station and a second wrapping station via a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said pair of robotic arms; rotating a second annular object at said second wrapping station via a second rotating device; and carrying said wrapping material around said second annular object via said pair of robotic arms. 5. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, using a rotating device and at least one robotic arm under control of a processor, comprising: rotating said annular object about its rotational axis; grasping said roll of wrapping material with at least one gripper having two opposing surfaces, mounted on said at least one robotic arm; and carrying said roll of wrapping material, via said robotic arm, around at least one surface of said annular object as it rotates, including at least the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole; said grasping including securely holding said wrapping material between said opposing surfaces so as to enable said at least one robotic arm to carry the material around said at least one surface of said annular object. 6. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 5, wherein said at least one robotic arm includes a first and second robotic arm, and said at least one gripper includes a first and second pair of grippers, further comprising: grasping said material with said first pair of grippers mounted on said first arm; carrying said material around said object to said second arm; exchanging said material with said second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm; and carrying said material around said object back to said first arm. 7. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 6 wherein each robotic arm includes at least one slide, said carrying step further comprising: raising and lowering each of said robotic arms, via said at least one slide, from the cylindrical center hole to the outside surface of said annular object; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outer surface and the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole. 8. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 5, wherein said at least one robotic arm includes a pair of robotic arms, and said at least one gripper includes two pairs of grippers, further comprising: grasping said material with a first of said pairs of grippers mounted on a first of said arms; releasing said material from the second of said pairs of grippers mounted on the second of said arms; carrying said material around said object via said first arm to the second of said arms; grasping said material with said second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm; releasing said material from said first pair of grippers mounted on the first of said arms; carrying said material around said object back to said first arm, such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole. 9. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 5, further comprising: generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object via at least one sensing device; and adapting said robotic arm via a processor, in response to signals received from said sensing device. 10. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 9, further comprising: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic arm; and adapting the movement of said robotic arm to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object. 11. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 5, wherein: adapting said rotating device, via a processor, in response to signals received from said at least one sensing device. 12. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 11, wherein: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic device; adapting said robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object; and adapting said rotating device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the width of said object based upon the sensed distance of said robotic device to said object. 13. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 5, wherein said carrying step comprises a plurality of tasks, further comprising: instructing said robotic arm, via a processor, to perform each task of said plurality of carrying tasks; and sending command signals to said processor via a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, wherein each carrying task is initiated by pressing at least one of said buttons. 14. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 13, further comprising: instructing said rotating device to rotate, via said processor, in response to at least one signal received from said remote control; and instructing said at least one gripper to operate, via said processor, in response to at least one signal received from said remote control. 15. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material in claim 5, further comprising: dispensing the material under tension as said material is carried around said annular object, via at least one variable-tensioning device inserted in said roll of wrapping material. 16. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 15, wherein said dispensing step further comprises: maintaining the braking tension on the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said carrying task, via a non-rotating circular brake in said variable-tensioning device. 17. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 15, wherein said at least one robotic arm includes a first and second robotic arm, said at least one gripper includes two pairs of grippers, and said at least one variable-tensioning device includes a pair of variable-tension handles for dispensing said wrapping material, further comprising: grasping said handles with a first pair of grippers mounted on said first arm; releasing the handles from a second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm carrying said material around said object, via the first arm, to the second arm; grasping the handles with the second pair of grippers mounted on the second arm releasing the handles from the first pair of grippers mounted on the first arm; and carrying said material around said object, via the second arm, back to the first arm; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 18. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 17, further comprising: repeating the cycle of grasping, releasing, and carrying steps as said object rotates, such that all inside and outside surfaces of said object are covered with wrapping material. 19. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material as in claim 5, at a plurality of wrapping stations, each station having its own rotating device to rotate one of said plurality of objects, further comprising: rotating a first annular object at a fist wrapping station via a first rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said first annular object via said at least one robotic arm, including a pair of robotic arms; moving said pair of robotic arms between said first wrapping station and a second wrapping station via a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said pair of robotic arms; rotating a second annular object at said second wrapping station via a second rotating device; and carrying said wrapping material around said second annular object via said pair of robotic arms. 20. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 19, further comprising: moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object via a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms. 21. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 20, said plurality of stations including a third wrapping station with its own rotating device, further comprising: moving said robotic arms between said second and said third stations via said first moving platforms; and moving said robotic arms to and from said third annular object at said third station via said second movable platform. 22. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, using a rotating device and at least one robotic device having at least one gripper, under control of a processor, comprising: generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object via at least one sensing device; adapting said robotic device, via said processor, to the size of said annular object in response to signals received from said at least one sensing device; and carrying said wrapping material in the grasp of said gripper, via said robotic device, around at least one surface of said annular object as it rotates, including at least the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole. 23. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 22, further comprising: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said at least one robotic device; and adapting said at least one robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object. 24. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 22, wherein said at least one sensing device includes a plurality of sensing devices, further comprising: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis via a first sensing device; sensing the distance between said object and said at least one adaptive robotic device via a second sensing device; and adapting said robotic device, via said processor, to wrap said object in accordance with the height and the rotational axis of said object, and the distance to said object. 25. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 22, further comprising: adapting said rotating device, via said processor, in response to signals received from said at least one sensing device; and rotating said annular object about its rotational axis via said adapted rotating device. 26. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 25, further comprising: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic device; adapting said robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object; and adapting said rotating device to rotate said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the width of said object based upon the sensed distance of said robotic device to said object. 27. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 26, further comprising: adapting said rotating device by adjusting its speed such that a portion of said wrapping material is overlapped on the outer surface of said object as it is wrapped. 28. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 25, wherein said at least one sensing device includes a plurality of sensing devices, further comprising: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis via a first sensing device; sensing the distance between said object and said adaptive robotic device via a second sensing device; and adapting said robotic device, via said processor, to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object. 29. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 22, wherein said carrying step comprises a plurality of tasks, further comprising: instructing said robotic device, via a processor, to perform each task of said plurality of carrying tasks; and sending signals to said processor via a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, wherein each of said carrying tasks is initiated by pressing at least one of said buttons. 30. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 29, further comprising: rotating said annular object about its rotational axis via said rotating device; controlling rotation of said rotating device, via said processor, in response to at least one of said signal received from said remote control. 31. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 22, further comprising: dispensing the material under tension as said material is wrapped around said annular object, via at least one variable-tensioning device inserted in said roll of wrapping material. 32. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 31, wherein said dispensing step further comprises: maintaining the braking tension on the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said carrying task, via a non-rotating circular brake in said variable-tensioning device. 33. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 31, wherein said at least one robotic device includes a first and second robotic arm, each arm including a pair of grippers, and said at least one variable-tensioning device includes a pair of variable-tension handles for dispensing said wrapping material, further comprising: grasping said handles with a first pair of grippers mounted on said first arm; releasing the handles from a second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm; carrying said material around said object, via the first arm, to the second arm; grasping the handles with the second pair of grippers mounted on the second arm; releasing the handles from the first pair of grippers mounted on the first arm; and carrying said material around said object, via the second arm, back to the first arm; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 34. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 33, further comprising: repeating the cycle of grasping, releasing, and carrying steps as said object rotates, such that all inside and outside surfaces of said object are covered with wrapping material. 35. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material as in claim 22, at a plurality of wrapping stations, each station having its own rotating device to rotate one of said plurality of objects, further comprising: rotating a first annular object at a first wrapping station via a first rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said first annular object via said at least one robotic device, including a pair of robotic arms; moving said pair of robotic arms between said first wrapping station and a second wrapping station via a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said pair of robotic arms; rotating a second annular object at said second wrapping station via a second rotating device; and carrying said wrapping material around said second annular object via said pair of robotic arms. 36. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 35, further comprising: moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object via a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms. 37. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 36, said plurality of stations including a third wrapping station with its own rotating device, further comprising: moving said robotic arms between said second and said third stations via said first moving platforms; and moving said robotic arms to and from said third annular object at said third station via said second movable platforms. 38. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 22, wherein said processor includes a plurality of control cards, further comprising: controlling the motion of, and receiving feedback from, all electronic system components including said rotating device, said at least one robotic device, and said sensing devices, via a first card and a second card, each with its own digital and analog inputs/outputs. 39. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 38, further comprising: analyzing the feedback from said digital and analog inputs, and issuing said digital and analog outputs to control the sequence of steps required for each major task, including moving to calculated positions, sensing dimensions of the object, rotating the rotating device, and wrapping the object, via computer programs running continuously within said first and second cards. 40. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 39, wherein said computer programs control execution of said major tasks, further comprising: transferring asynchronous control signals between said first and second cards so as to effect a master/slave relationship between them, respectively, via two pairs of asynchronous communication lines, one pair dedicated to each signal direction; and responsive to said asynchronous control signals, permitting the cards to synchronize events, via said communication lines, by observing asynchronous protocol within the computer programs wherein: upon operator request, said first master card decides which major tasks will be performed at what time, and sends unique commands to said slave card; and upon receipt of a master command, said second slave card acknowledges each unique command, performs the requested task, and reports back the results of that task. 41. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, using a rotating device and at least one robotic device having at least one gripper, under control of a processor, comprising: generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object via at least one sensing device; adapting said rotating device, via said processor, in response to signals received from said at least one sensing device; and carrying said wrapping material in the grasp of said gripper, via said robotic device, around at least one surface of said annular object as it rotates, including at least the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole. 42. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 41, further comprising: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said at least one robotic device; and adapting said rotating device to rotate said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the width of said object based upon the sensed distance of said at least one robotic device to said object. 43. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 42, wherein: Adapting said rotating device by adjusting its speed such that a portion of said wrapping material is overlapped on the outer surface of said object as it is being wrapped. 44. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 41, wherein said at least one sensing device includes a plurality of sensing devices, further comprising: sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis via a first sensing device; sensing the distance between said object and said adaptive robotic device via a second sensing device; and adapting said rotating device, via said processor, to rotate said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the width of said object based upon the sensed distance of said at least one robotic device to said object. 45. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 41, wherein said carrying step comprises a plurality of tasks, further comprising: instructing said robotic device, via a processor, to perform each task of said plurality of carrying tasks; and sending signals to said processor via a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, wherein each of said carrying tasks is initiated by pressing at least one of said buttons. 46. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 45, further comprising: controlling rotation of said rotating device via said processor in accordance with the carrying tasks of said arm, in response to signals received from said remote control. 47. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 41, further comprising: dispensing the material under tension as said material is carried around said annular object, via at least one variable-tensioning device inserted in said roll of wrapping material. 48. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 47, wherein said dispensing step further comprises: maintaining the braking tension on the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said carrying task, via a non-rotating circular brake in said variable-tensioning device. 49. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 47, wherein said at least one robotic device includes a first and second robotic arm, each arm including a pair of grippers, and said at least one variable-tensioning device includes a pair of variable-tension handles for dispensing said wrapping material, further comprising: grasping said handles with a first pair of grippers mounted on said first arm; releasing the handles from a second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm carrying said material around said object, via the first arm, to the second arm; grasping the handles with the second pair of grippers mounted on the second arm; releasing the handles from the first pair of grippers mounted on the first arm; and carrying said material around said object, via the second arm, back to the first arm; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 50. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 49, further comprising: repeating the cycle of grasping, releasing, and carrying steps as said object rotates, such that all inside and outside surfaces of said object are covered with wrapping material. 51. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material as in claim 41, at a plurality of wrapping stations, each station having its own rotating device to rotate one of said plurality of objects, further comprising: rotating a first annular object at a first wrapping station via a first rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said first annular object via said at least one robotic device, including a pair of robotic arms; moving said pair of robotic arms between said first wrapping station and a second wrapping station via a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said pair of robotic arms; rotating a second annular object at said second wrapping station via a second rotating device; and carrying said wrapping material around said second annular object via said pair of robotic arms. 52. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 51, further comprising: moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object via a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms. 53. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 52, said plurality of stations including a third wrapping station with its own rotating device, further comprising: moving said robotic arms between said second and said third stations via said first moving platforms; and moving said robotic arms to and from said third annular object at said third station via said second movable platforms. 54. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 54, wherein said processor includes a plurality of control cards, further comprising: controlling the motion of, and receiving feedback from, all electronic system components including said rotating device, said at least one robotic device, and said sensing devices, via a first card and a second card, each with its own digital and analog inputs/outputs. 55. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 54, further comprising: analyzing the feedback from said digital and analog inputs, and issuing said digital and analog outputs to control the sequence of steps required for each major task, including moving to calculated positions, sensing dimensions of the object, rotating the rotating device, and wrapping the object, via computer programs running continuously within said first and second cards. 56. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 55 wherein said computer programs control execution of said major tasks, further comprising: transferring asynchronous control signals between said first and second cards so as to effect a master/slave relationship between them, respectively, via two pairs of asynchronous communication lines, one pair dedicated to each signal direction; and responsive to said asynchronous control signals, permitting the cards to synchronize events, via said communication lines, by observing asynchronous protocol within the computer programs wherein: upon operator request, said first master card decides which major tasks will be performed at what time, and sends unique commands to said slave card; and upon receipt of a master command, said second slave card acknowledges each unique command, performs the requested task, and reports back the results of that task. 57. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, using a rotating device and at least one adaptive robotic device having at least one tripper, under control of a processor, comprising: wrapping said annular object with said wrapping material in the grasp of said gripper via said at least one robotic device, wherein said wrapping step comprises a plurality of wrapping tasks, including the task of wrapping at least one surface of said annular object; sending signals to said processor via a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, wherein each of said plurality of wrapping tasks is initiated by pressing at least one of said buttons; and instructing said robotic device, via said processor, to perform each task of said plurality of wrapping tasks, in response to at least one of said signals from said remote control. 58. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 57, further comprising: rotating said annular object about its rotational axis via said rotating device; and controlling rotation of said rotating device, via said processor, in response to at least one of said signals received from said remote control. 59. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 58, wherein: controlling rotation of said rotating device via said processor in accordance with the wrapping tasks of said robotic device in response to signals received from said remote control. 60. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 57 using a pair of variable-tension handles for dispensing said wrapping material, wherein said at least one robotic device includes a first and second robotic arm, each arm including a pair of grippers, further comprising: grasping said handles with a first pair of grippers mounted on said first arm; releasing the handles from a second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm; carrying said material around said object, via the first arm, to the second arm; grasping the handles with the second pair of grippers mounted on the second arm; releasing the handles from the first pair of grippers mounted on the first arm; and carrying said material around said object, via the second arm, back to the first arm; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 61. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 60, further comprising: repeating the cycle of grasping, releasing, and carrying steps as said object rotates, such that all inside and outside surfaces of said object are covered with wrapping material; wherein the repetitive cycle of grasping, releasing, and carrying is initiated and/or terminated by pressing at least one of said remote control buttons. 62. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material as in claim 57, at a plurality of wrapping stations, each station having its own rotating device to rotate one of said plurality of objects, further comprising: rotating a first annular object at a first wrapping station via a first rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said first annular object via said robotic device, including a pair of robotic arms; moving said pair of robotic arms between said first wrapping station and a second wrapping station via a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said pair of robotic arms; rotating a second annular object at said second wrapping station via a second rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said second annular object via said pair of robotic arms; moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object via a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms; wherein said moving steps comprise a plurality of moving tasks, each task being initiated by at least one of said plurality of buttons on said remote control, such that said processor, coupled to said movable platforms, instructs said platforms to move in accordance with each of said plurality of moving tasks, in response to signals from said remote control. 63. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 62, further comprising: moving said wrapping arms between said second station and a third station via said first pair of moving platforms; rotating a third annular object at said third wrapping station via a third rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said third annular object via said pair of robotic arms; and moving said wrapping arms to and from said third annular object via said second pair of movable platforms; wherein each of said moving tasks with respect to said third station and said third object are also initiated via said processor in response to a signal from said remote control. 64. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll at a plurality of wrapping stations, each station having its own rotating device to rotate one of said plurality of objects, comprising: rotating a first annular object at a first wrapping station via a first rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said first annular object via said at least one robotic arm, including a pair of robotic arms, each having at least one gripper for grasping said roll of material as it carried; moving said pair of robotic arms between said first wrapping station and a second wrapping station via a first pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said pair of robotic arms; rotating a second annular object at said second wrapping station via a second rotating device; and carrying said wrapping material around said second annular object via said pair of robotic arms in the grasp of said at least one gripper mounted on each arm; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 65. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 64, further comprising: moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object via a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms. 66. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 65, said plurality of stations including a third wrapping station with its own rotating device, further comprising: moving said robotic arms between said second and said third stations via said first moving platforms; moving said robotic arms to and from a third annular object at said third station via said second movable platforms; rotating said third annular object at said third wrapping station via a third rotating device; and carrying said wrapping material around said third annular object via said pair of robotic arms. 67. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 66 under control of a processor, wherein said processor control further comprises: initiating, monitoring and terminating, upon completion, each of said moving steps by said first platforms, each of said moving steps by said second platforms, each of said rotating steps by said rotating device, and each of said carrying steps by said robotic arms; such that each of said first, second, and third annular objects are completely wrapped after completing said carrying steps at said first, second, and third stations, respectively. 68. A method for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, using a rotating device and at least one robotic arm under control of a processor, comprising: grasping said roll of wrapping material with at least one gripper mounted on said at least one robotic arm; carrying said wrapping material, via said robotic arm, around at least one surface of said annular object, including at least the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole; and dispensing said roll of wrapping material under tension as said material is carried around said annular object, via at least one variable-tensioning device inserted in said roll of material, such that the dispensed sheet of material is wrapped substantially taut across each said surface wrapped. 69. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 68, wherein said dispensing step further comprises: maintaining the braking tension of the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said carrying task, via a non-rotating circular brake in said variable-tension device. 70. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 68, wherein said at least one robotic arm includes a pair of robotic arms, each arm further including at least one slide, said carrying step further comprising: raising and lowering each of said robotic arms, via said at least one slide, from the cylindrical center hole to the outside surface of said annular object; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outer surface and the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole. 71. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 70, wherein said at least one robotic arm includes a first and second robotic arm, and said at least one gripper includes a first and second pair of grippers, further comprising: grasping said material with said first pair of grippers mounted on said first arm; carrying said material around said object to said second arm; exchanging said material with said second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm; carrying material around said object back to said first arm; and dispensing said material under tension as it is carried around said object, such that it wraps tautly and smoothly against each exposed surface of said object it traverses. 72. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 70, wherein each of said pair of arms include a pair of grippers, and said at least one variable-tensioning device includes a pair of variable-tensioning handles for dispensing said wrapping material, further comprising: grasping said material with a first pair of grippers mounted on said first arm; releasing the handles from a second pair of grippers mounted on said second arm; carrying said material around said object, via the first arm, to the second arm; grasping the handles with the second pair o grippers mounted on the second arm; releasing the handles from the first pair of grippers mounted on the first arm; carrying said material around said object, via the second arm, back to the first arm; and dispensing said material under tension as it is carried around said object, such that it wraps tautly and smoothly against each exposed surface of said object it traverses; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 73. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 72, further comprising: rotating said annular object about its rotational axis via said rotating device; and repeating the cycle of grasping, releasing, and carrying as said object rotates, such that all inside and outside surfaces of said object are covered tautly with wrapping material. 74. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 69, wherein said wrapping material is pre-loaded on a cylindrical cardboard roll with a hollow center, and said variable-tension devices are handles, wherein pre-setting said tension comprises: selection the braking tension by varying the pressure against a non-rotating circular brake plate, via an adjusting knob on the inside end of each variable-tension handle; generating said braking tension by pressing said brake plate against a matching circular brake, rigidly secured to the non-rotating outside end of said handle which fits smoothly into said at least one gripper during said wrapping task; and allowing the roll of wrapping material to rotate during said wrapping task via an internal needle bearing, pressed into a rotating hollow sleeve which fits snugly into the circular end of said roll; wherein said adjusting knob presses the non-rotating circular brake against the rotating outer race of said internal bearing to increase or decrease braking, in response to said adjusting knob being turned clockwise or counter-clockwise, respectively. 75. A method for wrapping an annular object as in claim 74, wherein said variable-tension handles are drawn tightly together to immobilize said roll, comprising: twisting said pair of pre-tensioned handles securely together via a threaded connecting rod, as they are inserted facing each other into both ends of the roll of wrapping material; and sinking concentric rings of locking spikes, facing inward from an outer flange on the rotating sleeve of each handle, into the circular ends of said roll of wrapping material as the handles are twisted together, such that the roll is prevented from slipping around the outside of said rotating sleeve. 76. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material as in claim 68, at a plurality of wrapping stations, each station having its own rotating device to rotate one of said plurality of objects, further comprising: rotating a first annular object at a first wrapping station via a first rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said first annular object via said at least one robotic arm, including a pair of robotic arms; moving said pair of robotic arms between said first wrapping station and a second wrapping station via a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said pair of robotic arms; rotating a second annular object at said second wrapping station via a second rotating device; carrying said wrapping material around said second annular object via said pair of robotic arms; and dispensing said material under tension as it is carried around said object, such that it wraps tautly and smoothly against each exposed surface of said object it traverses; such that said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 77. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 76, further comprising: moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object via a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms. 78. A method for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 77, said plurality of stations including a third wrapping station with its own rotating device, further comprising: moving said robotic arms between said second and said third stations via said first moving platforms; and moving said robotic arms to and from said third annular object at said third station via said second movable platforms. 79. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, comprising: at least one sensing device for generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object; an adaptive rotating device for rotating said annular object about its rotational axis; at least one adaptive robotic arm for carrying said wrapping material around at least one surface of said annular object as it rotates, said at least one surface including the inside surface of the object's cylindrical hole; at least one gripper, mounted on said robotic arm, for grasping the roll of wrapping material as it is carried; at least one variable-tensioning device, inserted in said roll of wrapping material, for dispensing the material under tension as said material is carried around said annular object, such that the dispensed sheet of material is wrapped substantially taut across each said surface wrapped; a processor, coupled to said sensing device and said adaptive robotic arm, for adapting said robotic arm in response to signals received from said sensing device; said processor, also coupled to said adaptive rotating device, for adapting said rotating device in response to signals received from said sensing device; and a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, for sending command signals to said processor, wherein each of said generating, adapting, rotating, and carrying tasks is initiated by pressing at least one of said buttons. 80. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on first and second said adaptive rotating devices as in claim 79, further comprising: a first wrapping station having a first adaptive rotating device for rotating a first annular object; a second wrapping station having a second adaptive rotating device for rotating a second annular object; said at least one adaptive robotic arm including two adaptive robotic arms for carrying said wrapping material around said first or said second annular object; and a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said robotic arms, for moving said robotic arms between said first wrapping station and said second wrapping station. 81. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, comprising: a rotating device for rotating said annular object about its rotational axis; at least one adaptive robotic arm for carrying said roll of wrapping material around at least one surface of said annular object as it rotates, said at least one surface including the inside surface of the object's cylindrical hole; and at least one gripper having two opposing surfaces, mounted on said robotic arm for grasping the roll of wrapping material between said opposing surfaces such that the material is securely held for enabling said at least one robotic arm to carry the material around said at least one surface of said annular object. 82. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 81, wherein: said at least one robotic arm includes a pair of robotic arms; and said at least one gripper includes a pair of grippers, at least one of said pair of grippers mounted on each robotic arm. 83. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claims 82, wherein: said at least one gripper includes two pair of grippers, at least one pair of said grippers mounted on each robotic arm. 84. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 81, wherein: said rotating device includes a pair of coil rollers for supporting said annular object and rotating it about its rotational axis. 85. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 81, further comprising: at least one pair of slides for raising and lowering said at least one robotic arm from the center hole to the outside surface of said annular object; wherein said at least one surface of said annular object includes its outer surface and the inner surface of its cylindrical center hole. 86. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 85 wherein: said at least one pair of slides includes two pairs of slides; and said at least one robotic arm includes a pair of robotic arms, each robotic arm mounted upon one of said two pairs of slides. 87. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 86 further comprising: a pair of chasses, each supporting a pair of said vertical slides as an integral unit, for keeping said vertical slides rigid while the robotic arms are wrapping the object. 88. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 81, further comprising: at least one sensing device for generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object; and a processor, coupled to said sensing device and said at least one robotic arm, for adapting said robotic arm in response to signals received from said sensing device. 89. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 88, further wherein: said at least one sensing device senses the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic arm; and said processor adapts said at least one robotic arm to wrap said object in accordance sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object. 90. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 81, wherein: said processor is also coupled to said rotating device, and adapts said rotating device in response to signals received from said at least one sensing device. 91. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 90, wherein: said at least one sensing device senses the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic device; said processor adapts said robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object; and said processor adapts said rotating device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the width of said object based upon the sensed distance of said robotic device to said object. 92. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 81, wherein said carrying step comprises a plurality of tasks, further comprising: a processor, coupled to said robotic arm, for instructing said robotic arm to perform each task of said plurality of carrying tasks; and a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, for sending signals to said processor, wherein each of said plurality of carrying tasks is initiated by pressing one said buttons. 93. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 92, wherein: said processor, also coupled to said rotating device, controls rotation of said rotating device in accordance with the carrying tasks of said robotic arm, in response to at least one of said signals received from said remote control. 94. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material in claim 81, further comprising: at least one variable-tensioning device, inserted in said roll of wrapping material, for dispensing the material under tension as said material is carried around said annular object. 95. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 94, wherein: said at least one robotic arm includes a pair of robotic arms; and said at least one gripper includes a pair of grippers, at least one of said pair of grippers mounted on each robotic arm. 96. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 95, wherein: said at least one gripper includes two pair of grippers, at least one pair of said grippers mounted on each robotic arm; and said at least one variable-tension device includes a pair of variable-tension handles, inserted in each end of said roll of wrapping material. 97. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 96, wherein said pair of variable-tension handles further comprise: a non-rotating circular brake in each variable-tension handle for maintaining the braking tension on the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said carrying task. 98. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 81, further comprising: a first wrapping station, having a first rotating device for rotating a first annular object; a second wrapping station, having a second rotating device for rotating a second annular object; said at least one robotic arm including a pair of robotic arms for carrying said wrapping material around said first or said second annular object; and a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said robotic arms, for moving said robotic arms between said first wrapping station and said second wrapping station. 99. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 98, further comprising: a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms, for moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object. 100. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 99, further comprising: a third wrapping station, having a third rotating device for rotating a third annular object; wherein said movable platforms also move said robotic arms between said second and said third stations, and to and from said third annular object. 101. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object having a center hole including an inner surface with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, comprising: at least one sensing device for generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object; an adaptive robotic device for wrapping said annular object including the inner surface of said center hole, such that it adapts its path of travel to the size of said object; at least one gripper having two opposing surfaces, mounted on said robotic device, for grasping the roll of wrapping material between said opposing surfaces such that the material is securely held while being wrapped; and a processor, coupled to said sensing device and said adaptive robotic device, for adapting said robotic device in response to signals received from said sensing device. 102. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 101, wherein: said at least one sensing device senses the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic device; and said processor adapts said robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object. 103. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 101, wherein: said at least one sensing device includes a first sensing device for sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis; said at least one sensing device also includes a second sensing device for sensing the distance between said object and said adaptive robotic device; and said processor adapts said robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object. 104. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 101, further comprising: an adaptive rotating device for rotating said annular object about its rotational axis; said processor, also coupled to said adaptive rotating device, for adapting said rotating device in response to signals received from said at least one sensing device. 105. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 104, wherein: said at least one sensing device senses the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic device; said processor adapts said robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object; said processor adapts said rotating device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the width of said object based upon the sensed distance of said robotic device to said object. 106. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 105, wherein: said processor adapts said rotating device by adjusting its speed such that a portion of said wrapping material is overlapped on the outer surface of said object as it is wrapped. 107. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 104, wherein: said at least one sensing device includes a first sensing device for sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis; said at least one sensing device also includes a second sensing device for sensing the distance between said object and said adaptive robotic device; and said processor adapts said robotic device to wrap said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed distance to said object. 108. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material in claim 101, wherein said wrapping function comprises a plurality of tasks, further comprising: said processor, coupled to said robotic device, instructing said robotic device to perform each task of said plurality of wrapping tasks; and a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, for sending signals to said processor, wherein each of said plurality of wrapping tasks is initiated by pressing one said buttons. 109. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 108, further comprising: A rotating device for rotating said annular object about its rotational axis; wherein said processor, also coupled to said rotating device, controls rotation of said rotating device in accordance with the wrapping tasks of said robotic arm, in response to at least one of said signals received from said remote control. 110. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material as in claim 101, further comprising: said adaptive robotic device includes a pair of wrapping arms; at least one pair of grippers, one of said grippers mounted on each wrapping arm; and at least one variable-tensioning device, inserted in said roll of wrapping material, for dispensing the material under tension as said material is wrapped around said annular object. 111. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 110, wherein: said at least one pair of gripper includes two pair of grippers, at least one pair of said grippers mounted on each wrapping arm; and said at least one variable-tension device includes a pair of variable-tension devices, inserted in each end of said roll of wrapping material. 112. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 111, wherein said pair of variable-tension devices are handles which further comprise: a non-rotating circular brake in each variable-tension handle for maintaining the braking tension on the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said wrapping task. 113. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 101, further comprising: a first wrapping station, having a first rotating device for rotating a first annular object; a second wrapping station, having a second rotating device for rotating a second annular object; said adaptive robotic device including a pair of robotic arms for carrying said wrapping material around said first or said second annular object; and a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said robotic arms, for moving said robotic arms between said first wrapping station and said second wrapping station. 114. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 113, further comprising: a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms, for moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object. 115. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 114, further comprising: a third wrapping station, having a third rotating device for rotating a third annular object; wherein said movable platforms also move said robotic arms between said second and said third stations, and to and from said third annular object. 116. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 101, wherein said processor further comprises: a first card and a second card, each with its own digital and analog inputs/outputs, for controlling the motion of, and receiving feedback from, all electronic system components including said rotating device, said at least one robotic device, and said sensing devices. 117. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 116, further comprising: computer programs running continuously within said first and second cards, for analyzing the feedback from said digital and analog inputs, and for issuing said digital and analog outputs to control the sequence of steps required for each major task, including moving to calculated positions, sensing dimensions of the object, rotating the rotating device, and wrapping the object. 118. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 117 wherein said computer programs control execution of said major tasks, further comprising: two pairs of asynchronous communication lines for transferring control signals between said first and second cards so as to effect a master/slave relationship between them, respectively, one pair of said lines dedicated to each signal direction; and asynchronous protocol within the computer programs, responsive to said asynchronous control signals, permitting the cards to synchronize events via said communication lines, wherein: said first master card, upon operator request, decides which major tasks will be performed at what time, and sends unique commands to said slave card; and said second slave card, upon receipt of a master command, acknowledges the command, performs the requested task, and reports back the results of that task. 119. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, comprising: at least one sensing device for generating signals indicative of the size of said annular object; an adaptive rotating device for rotating said annular object about its rotational axis; at least one adaptive robotic device for carrying said wrapping material around at least one surface of said annular object as it rotates, such that it adapts its path of travel to the size of said object; at least one gripper having two opposing surfaces, mounted on said robotic device, for grasping the roll of wrapping material between said opposing surfaces such that the material is securely held as it is carried by said robotic device; and a processor, coupled to said sensing device, said adaptive robotic device and said adaptive rotating device, for adapting said rotating device and said robotic device in response to signals received from said sensing device. 120. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 119, wherein: said at least one sensing device senses the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis, and the distance between said object and said robotic device; and said processor adapts said rotating device to rotate said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the sensed width of said object based upon the distance of said at least one robotic device to said object. 121. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 120, wherein: said processor adapts said rotating device by adjusting its speed such that a portion of said wrapping material is overlapped on the outer surface of said object as it is wrapped. 122. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 119, wherein: said at least one sensing device includes a first sensing device for sensing the height of said object and its cylindrical rotational axis; said at least one sensing device also includes a second sensing device for sensing the distance between said object and said at least one robotic device; and said processor adapts said rotating device to rotate said object in accordance with the sensed height and rotational axis of said object, and the width of said object based upon the sensed distance of said at least one robotic device to said object. 123. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material in claim 119, wherein said carrying function comprises a plurality of tasks, further comprising: said processor, coupled to said robotic device, instructing said robotic device to perform each task of said plurality of carrying tasks; and a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, for sending signals to said processor, wherein each of said plurality of carrying tasks is initiated by pressing one said buttons. 124. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 123, wherein: said processor controls rotation of said rotating device in accordance with the carrying tasks of said robotic arm, in response to at least one of said signals received from said remote control. 125. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material in claim 119, further comprising: said robotic device includes a pair of robotic arms; at least one pair of grippers, one of said grippers mounted on each robotic arm; and at least one variable-tensioning device, inserted in said roll of wrapping material, for dispensing the material under tension as said material is carried around said annular object. 126. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 125, wherein: said at least one pair of gripper includes two pair of grippers, at least one pair of said grippers mounted on each robotic arm; and said at least one variable-tension device includes a pair of variable-tension devices, inserted in each end of said roll of wrapping material. 127. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 126, wherein said pair of variable-tension devices are handles which further comprise: a non-rotating circular brake in each variable-tension handle for maintaining the braking tension on the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said carrying task. 128. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 119, further comprising: a first wrapping station, having a first rotating device for rotating a first annular object; a second wrapping station, having a second rotating device for rotating a second annular object; said at least one robotic device including a pair of robotic arms for carrying said wrapping material around said first or said second annular object; and a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said robotic arms, for moving said robotic arms between said first wrapping station and said second wrapping station. 129. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 128, further comprising: a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic arms, for moving said robotic arms to and from said first or said second annular object. 130. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 129, further comprising: a third wrapping station, having a third rotating device for rotating a third annular object; wherein said movable platforms also move said robotic arms between said second and said third stations, and to and from said third annular object. 131. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 119, wherein said processor further comprises: a first card and a second card, each with its own digital and analog inputs/outputs, for controlling the motion of, and receiving feedback from, all electronic system components including said arms, grippers, slides, and said rotating device, and all position sensors attached thereto. 132. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 131, further comprising: computer programs comprising operating modules running continuously within said first and second cards, respectively, for analyzing the feedback from said digital and analog inputs, and for issuing said digital and analog outputs to control the sequence of steps required for each major task, including moving to calculated positions, sensing dimensions of the object, rotating the rotating device, and wrapping the object. 133. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 132 wherein, to execute any of said major tasks controlled by said computer programs, said apparatus further comprises: two pairs of asynchronous communication lines for transferring control signals between said first and second cards so as to effect a master/slave relationship, respectively, between them; and asynchronous protocol within the computer programs, responsive to said asynchronous control signals, permitting the cards to synchronize events via said communication lines, one pair dedicated to each signal direction, wherein: said first master card, upon operator request, decides which major tasks will be performed at what time, and sends unique commands to said slave card; said second slave card, upon receipt of a master command, acknowledges the command, performs the requested task, and reports back the results of that task. 134. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, comprising: an adaptive a robotic device for wrapping said annular object, wherein said wrapping function comprises a plurality of tasks, including the task of wrapping said object by carrying said material across at least one surface of said annular object; at least one gripper having two opposing surfaces, mounted on said robotic device, for gasp the roll of wrapping material between said opposing surfaces such that the material is securely held as it is carried by said robotic device; a processor, coupled to said robotic device, for instructing said robotic device to perform each task of said plurality of tasks; and a remote control, including a plurality of buttons, for sending signals to said processor, wherein each of said plurality of wrapping tasks is initiated by pressing one said buttons. 135. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 134, further comprising: A rotating device for rotating said annular object about its rotational axis; and said processor, also coupled to said rotating device, controlling rotation of said rotating device in response to at least one of said signals received from said remote control. 136. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 135, wherein: said processor controls rotation of said rotating device in accordance with the wrapping tasks of said robotic device, in response to at least one of said signals received from said remote control. 137. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material in claim 134, further comprising: said robotic device includes a pair of robotic arms; at least one pair of grippers, one of said grippers mounted on each robotic arm; and at least one variable-tensioning device, inserted in said roll of wrapping material, for dispensing the material under tension as said material is wrapped around said annular object. 138. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 137, wherein: said at least one pair of gripper includes two pair of grippers, at least one pair of said grippers mounted on each robotic arm; and said at least one variable-tension device includes a pair of variable-tension devices, inserted in each end of said roll of wrapping material. 139. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 138, wherein said pair of variable-tension devices are handles which further comprise: a non-rotating circular brake in each variable-tension handle for maintaining the braking tension on the wrapping material as it is dispensed during said wrapping task. 140. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 135, further comprising: a first wrapping station, having a first rotating device for rotating a first annular object; a second wrapping station, having a second rotating device for rotating a second annular object; said robotic device including a pair of wrapping arms for carrying said wrapping material around said first or said second annular object; a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said wrapping arms, for moving said wrapping arms between said first wrapping station and said second wrapping station; and a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said wrapping arms, for moving said wrapping arms to and from said first or said second annular object; wherein said moving functions comprise a plurality of moving tasks, each task being initiated by at least one of said plurality of buttons on said remote control, such that said processor, coupled to said movable platforms, instructs said platforms to move in accordance with each of said plurality of moving tasks, in response to signals from said remote control. 141. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 140, further comprising: a third wrapping station, having a third rotating device for rotating a third annular object; wherein said movable platforms also move said wrapping arms between said second and said third stations, and to and from said third annular object; and wherein said moving tasks with respect to said third station and said third object are also initiated by said remote control via said processor. 142. An apparatus for wrapping a substantially annular object with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll, comprising: at least one wrapping arm for carrying said wrapping material around at least one surface of said annular object; at least one gripper, mounted on said wrapping arm, for grasping the roll of wrapping material; and at least one variable-tensioning device, inserted in said roll of wrapping material, for dispensing the material under tension as said material is carried around said annular object, such that the dispensed sheet of material is wrapped substantially taut across each said surface wrapped. 143. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 142, wherein: said at least one wrapping arm includes a pair of wrapping arms; and said at least one gripper includes a pair of grippers, at least one of said pair of grippers mounted on each wrapping arm. 144. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 143, wherein: said at least one gripper includes two pair of grippers, at least one pair of said grippers mounted on each wrapping arm; and said at least one variable-tension device includes a pair of variable-tension devices, inserted in each end of said roll of wrapping material. 145. An apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 143, wherein said wrapping material is pre-loaded on a cylindrical cardboard roll with a hollow center, and said variable-tension devices are handles, each of which further comprises: an adjusting knob, on the inside end of each variable-tension handle, for pre-setting the braking tension by varying the pressure against a non-rotating circular brake plate; a matching circular brake for generating said tension, rigidly secured to the non-rotating outside end of the handle which fits smoothly into the grippers during the wrapping task; an internal needle bearing pressed into a rotating hollow sleeve that fits snugly into the circular end of the roll of wrapping material, allowing it to rotate during the wrapping task; wherein said adjusting knob presses the non-rotating circular brake against the rotating outer race of said internal bearing to increase or decrease braking, in response to said adjusting knob being turned clockwise or counter-clockwise, respectively. 146. The apparatus for wrapping an annular object as in claim 145 wherein said variable-tension handles further comprise: a threaded connecting rod for twisting the pair of pre-tensioned handles securely together as they are inserted facing each other into both ends of the roll of wrapping material; and an outer flange on the rotating sleeve of each handle, containing a concentric ring of inward-facing locking spikes which sink into the circular ends of said roll of wrapping material as the handles are twisted together, such that the roll is prevented from slipping around the outside of said rotating sleeve. 147. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 143, further comprising: a first wrapping station, having a first rotating device for rotating a first annular object; a second wrapping station, having a second rotating device for rotating a second annular object; said at least one wrapping arm including a pair of wrapping arms for carrying said wrapping material around said first or said second annular object; and a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said wrapping arms, for moving said wrapping arms between said first wrapping station and said second wrapping station. 148. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 147, further comprising: a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said wrapping arms, for moving said wrapping arms to and from said first or said second annular object. 149. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 148, further comprising: a third wrapping station, having a third rotating device for rotating a third annular object; wherein said movable platforms also move said wrapping arms between said second and said third stations, and to and from said third annular object. 150. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material dispensed as a sheet from a roll on a plurality of rotating devices, comprising: a first wrapping station, having a first rotating device for rotating a first annular object; a second wrapping station, having a second rotating device for rotating a second annular object; a pair of robotic devices for carrying said wrapping material around said first or said second annular object; at least one gripper having two opposing surfaces, mounted on each robotic device, for grasping the roll of wrapping material between said opposing surfaces such that the material is securely held as it is carried by said robotic devices; and a pair of movable platforms, each supporting one of said robotic devices, for moving said robotic devices between said first wrapping station and said second wrapping station; such that at least one surface of said first or said second annular object is wrapped, including its outside surface and the inside surface of its cylindrical center hole. 151. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 150, further comprising: a second pair of movable platforms, each also supporting one of said robotic devices, for moving said robotic devices to and from said first or said second annular object. 152. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 151, further comprising: a third wrapping station, having a third rotating device for rotating a third annular object; said pair of robotic devices also for carrying said wrapping material around said third annular object; a wherein said movable platforms also move said robotic devices between said second and said third stations, and to and from said third annular object. 153. An apparatus for wrapping a plurality of substantially annular objects with wrapping material on a plurality of rotating devices as in claim 152, under control of a processor, further comprising: said processor for initiating, monitoring and terminating, upon completion, each of said moving functions by said first platforms, each of said moving functions by said second platforms, each of said rotating functions by said rotating device, and each of said carrying functions by said robotic arms; such that each of said first, second, and third annular objects are completely wrapped after completing said carrying functions at said first, second, and third stations, respectively. 