A substrate processing method comprising steps for forming a copper film on a surface of a substrate. These steps includes the step of filling a first metal in the trenches so as to form a plated film of the first metal on an entire surface of the substrate by electroplating, wherein the electromagnetic field is adjusted by the virtual anode so that differences of thickness of the plated film between the central portion and the peripheral portion of the substrate being minimized, and polishing and removing the plated film by pressing the substrate to the polishing surface, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at a central portion and a peripheral portion are adjusted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of filling a metal in fine trenches in a surface of a substrate, comprising: forming a barrier layer on the substrate, and a seed layer on the barrier layer; providing an electroplating apparatus having a first substrate holder for holding the substrate, a plating bath containing a plating liquid, an anode, and a virtual anode to adjust electromagnetic field; providing a polishing apparatus having a second substrate holder for holding the substrate to press the substrate against a polishing surface at different pressures at a central portion and a peripheral portion of the substrate; transferring the substrate with the barrier layer and the seed layer to the electroplating apparatus; holding the substrate in the first substrate holder and placing the substrate in the plating liquid; generating electromagnetic field; filling a first metal in the trenches and forming a plated film of the first metal on an entire surface of the substrate by electroplating, wherein the electromagnetic field is adjusted by the virtual anode so that differences of thickness of the plated film between the central portion and the peripheral portion of the substrate being minimized; removing the substrate from the plating bath; washing and drying the substrate in the electroplating apparatus; transferring the substrate to the polishing apparatus; holding the substrate in the second substrate holder; polishing and removing the plated film by pressing the substrate to the polishing surface, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at a central portion and a peripheral portion are adjusted; washing and drying the substrate in the polishing apparatus; and transferring the substrate from the polishing apparatus. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of annealing the electroplated substrate. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of annealing being performed in an annealing unit placed in the electroplating apparatus. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of cap-plating a second metal to form a protective plated layer on the plated film of the polished substrate after polishing. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of cap-plating being performed in an electroless-plating apparatus. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the electroless-plating apparatus is placed in the polishing apparatus. 7. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of annealing the cap-plated substrate after cap-plating. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of measuring the thickness of the plated film on the substrate prior to the polishing. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the pressures to press the substrate against the polishing surface at the polishing apparatus being adjusted based on output of the measuring step. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the thickness of the plated film on the substrate is equal to or less than 2.0 micron meter. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the thickness of the plated film on the substrate is equal to or less than 1.0 micron meter. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: loading the substrate into a substrate transport box after forming the barrier layer on the substrate and the seed layer on the barrier layer; and transporting the substrate to the electroplating apparatus; wherein the substrate being held in the substrate transport box within an atmosphere wherein at least one of particle contaminant, chemical contaminant, oxygen, and humidity being reduced compared to the outside of the substrate transport box. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising; loading the substrate into a substrate transport box prior to transferring the substrate from the polishing apparatus; and transporting the substrate from the polishing apparatus; wherein the substrate being held in the substrate transport box within an atmosphere wherein at least one of particle contaminant, chemical contaminant, oxygen, and humidity being reduced compared to the outside of the substrate transport box. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate are adjusted so that there is no barrier layer remained on the surface of the substrate except in the trenches. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising; reinforcing the seed layer by depositing an additional metal by an electroplating unit or an electroless-plating unit prior to the step of filling the first metal in the trenches. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the electroplating unit or the electroless-plating unit is placed in the electroplating apparatus. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the first metal comprises copper. 18. A method of filling a metal in trenches in a surface of a substrate, comprising; providing an electroplating apparatus; providing a polishing apparatus having a substrate holder for holding the substrate to press the substrate against a polishing surface at different pressures at a central portion and a peripheral portion of the substrate; forming a barrier layer on the substrate; transferring the substrate with the barrier layer to the electroplating apparatus; holding the substrate in a first plating liquid in the electroplating apparatus; electroplating a first layer on the entire surface of the barrier layer using the first plating liquid; holding the substrate in a second plating liquid in the electroplating apparatus; filling a metal in the trenches covered by the first layer and forming a second plating layer of the metal on the surface of the substrate using the second plating liquid; washing and drying the substrate in the electroplating apparatus; transferring the substrate to the polishing apparatus; holding the substrate in the substrate holder; polishing the second plating layer by pressing the substrate to the polishing surface, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at a central portion and a peripheral portion are adjusted; washing and drying the substrate in the polishing apparatus; and transferring the substrate from the polishing apparatus. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of annealing the electroplated substrate. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the step of annealing being performed in an annealing unit placed in the electroplating apparatus. 21. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of cap-plating a second metal to form a protective plated layer on the plated film of the polished substrate after polishing. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of cap-plating being performed in an electroless-plating apparatus. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the electroless-plating apparatus is placed in the polishing apparatus. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of annealing the cap-plated substrate after cap-plating. 25. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of measuring the thickness of the plated film on the substrate prior to the polishing. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the pressures to press the substrate against the polishing surface at the polishing apparatus being adjusted based on output of the measuring step. 27. The method of claim 18, wherein the thickness of the plated film on the substrate is equal to or less than 2 micron meter. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the thickness of the plated film on the substrate is equal to or less than 1 micron meter. 29. The method of claim 18, further comprising: loading the substrate into a substrate transport box after forming the barrier layer on the substrate; and transporting the substrate to the electroplating apparatus; wherein the substrate being held in the substrate transport box within an atmosphere wherein at least one of particle contaminant, chemical contaminant, oxygen, and humidity being reduced compared to the outside of the substrate transport box. 30. The method of claim 18, further comprising; loading the substrate into a substrate transport box prior to transferring the substrate from the polishing apparatus; and transporting the substrate from the polishing apparatus; wherein the substrate being held in the substrate transport box within an atmosphere wherein at least one of particle contaminant, chemical contaminant, oxygen, and humidity being reduced compared to the outside of the substrate transport box. 31. The method of claim 18, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate are adjusted so that there is no barrier layer remained on the surface of the substrate except in the trenches. 32. The method of claim 18, further comprising; reinforcing the seed layer by depositing an additional metal in an electroplating unit or an electroless-plating unit prior to the step of filling the first metal in the trenches. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the electroplating unit or the electroless-plating unit in the electroplating apparatus. 34. The method of claim 18, wherein the metal comprises copper. 35. A method of filling a metal in trenches in a surface of a substrate, comprising: forming a barrier layer on the substrate, and a seed layer on the barrier layer; providing an electroplating apparatus having a first substrate holder for holding the substrate, a plating bath containing a plating liquid, and an anode; providing a polishing apparatus having a second substrate holder for holding the substrate to press the substrate against a polishing surface; transferring the substrate with the barrier layer and the seed layer to the electroplating apparatus; reinforcing the seed layer by depositing an additional metal in an electroplating unit or an electroless-plating unit; holding the substrate in the first substrate holder and placing the substrate in the plating liquid; generating electromagnetic field; filling a first metal in the trenches and forming a plated film of the first metal on an entire surface of the substrate by electroplating; removing the substrate from the plating bath; washing and drying the substrate in the electroplating apparatus; transferring the substrate to the polishing apparatus; holding the substrate in the second substrate holder; polishing and removing the plated film by pressing the substrate to the polishing surface; cap-plating a second metal to form a protective plated layer on the plated film of the polished substrate after polishing; and washing and drying the substrate. 36. The method of claim 35, further comprising the step of annealing the electroplated substrate. 37. The method of claim 35, further comprising the step of annealing the cap-plated substrate after cap-plating. 38. The method of claim 35, wherein the first metal comprises a copper. 39. A method of filling a metal in trenches in a surface of a substrate, comprising; providing a plating apparatus; providing a polishing apparatus having a substrate holder for holding the substrate to press the substrate against a polishing surface at different pressures at a central portion and a peripheral portion of the substrate; forming a barrier layer on the substrate; transferring the substrate with the barrier layer to the plating apparatus; holding the substrate in a first plating liquid in the plating apparatus; electroless-plating a first layer on the entire surface of the barrier layer using the first plating liquid in the electroplating apparatus; holding the substrate in a second plating liquid in the plating apparatus; generating electromagnetic field between the substrate and an anode; filling a metal in the trenches covered by the first layer and forming a second plating layer of the metal on the surface of the substrate using the second plating liquid; washing and drying the substrate in the plating apparatus; transferring the substrate to the polishing apparatus; holding the substrate in the substrate holder; polishing the second plating layer by pressing the substrate to the polishing surface, wherein the pressures pressing the substrate to the polishing surface at a central portion and a peripheral portion are adjusted; washing and drying the substrate in the polishing apparatus; and transferring the substrate from the polishing apparatus. 