The present invention relates to Drosophila genes and methods for their use. The invention provides nucleotide sequences of Drosophila genes, amino acid sequences of the encoded proteins, and derivatives (e.g., fragments) and analogs thereof. The invention further relates to fragments (and derivatives and analogs thereof) of proteins which comprise one or more domains of a Drosophila protein. Antibodies to Drosophila proteins, and derivatives and analogs thereof, are also provided. Also provided herein are vectors and host cells comprising such nucleic acids. Methods of production of a Drosophila protein (e.g., by recombinant means), and derivatives and analogs thereof, are provided. Chimeric polypeptide molecules comprising polypeptides of the invention fused to heterologous polypeptide sequences are provided. Methods to identify the biological function of a Drosophila gene are provided, including various methods for the functional modification (e.g., overexpression, underexpression, mutation, knock-out) of one gene, or of two or more genes simultaneously. Methods to identify a Drosophila gene which modifies the function of, and/or functions in a downstream pathway from, another gene are provided. The invention further provides for use of Drosophila proteins as media additives or pesticides.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated nucleic acid of not more than 15 kilobases comprising the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:10340 or a reverse complement thereof. 2. The nucleic acid of claim 1 which is DNA. 3. A recombinant vector comprising the nucleic acid of claim 1. 4. A recombinant host cell containing the vector of claim 3. 5. A method for producing Drosophila melanogaster chitin synthase protein comprising growing a recombinant cell containing the recombinant vector of claim 3 such that the chitin synthase protein encoded by said nucleic acid is expressed by the cell, and recovering the expressed chitin synthase protein. 6. A recombinant host cell containing the nucleic acid of claim 1, said nucleic acid being recombinant. 7. An isolated RNA comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO:10,504 wherein T (thymidine) residues are substituted by U (uracil) residues. 8. An isolated nucleic acid consisting of the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:10540 or a reverse complement thereof. 9. An isolated first nucleic acid that hybridizes under high stringency conditions to a second nucleic acid consisting of the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:10540 or a reverse complement thereof, wherein said first nucleic acid encodes a chitin synthase and consists of a nucleotide sequence of not more than 15 kilobases. 10. An isolated nucleic acid of not more than 15 kilobases comprising the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3 or a reverse complement thereof. 11. The nucleic acid of claim 10 which is DNA. 12. A recombinant vector comprising the nucleic acid of claim 10. 13. A recombinant host cell containing the vector of claim 12. 14. A method for producing a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) protein comprising growing a recombinant cell containing the recombinant vector of claim 12 such that the GPCR protein encoded by said nucleic acid is expressed by the cell, and recovering the expressed GPCR protein. 15. A recombinant host cell containing the nucleic acid of claim 10, said nucleic acid being recombinant. 16. An isolated first nucleic acid that hybridizes under high stringency conditions to a second nucleic acid consisting of the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3 or a reverse complement thereof, wherein said first nucleic acid encodes a G-protein coupled receptor and consists of a nucleotide sequence of not more than 15 kilobases. 17. An isolated nucleic acid consisting of the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:3 or a reverse complement thereof. 18. An isolated RNA comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO:3 wherein T (thymidine) residues are substituted by U (uracil) residues. 