A robot apparatus with a first barcode scanner to be used for collecting positional data perpendicular to its scan direction and a second barcode scanner to be used for collecting positional data perpendicular to its scan direction where the first and second barcode scanner are mounted substantially orthogonal to each other is, for example, a library storage system, is provided. The first barcode scanner scans the target while the robotic apparatus is moved in a direction perpendicular to the scan path of the first barcode scanner. The second barcode scanner scans a second target substantially orthogonal to the first target while the robot is moved substantially perpendicular to the scan path of the second barcode scanner. Positional data is collected in conjunction with the readability limits of the first and the second target. The central position of the first and second target in a substantially perpendicular direction to the scan path is determined by the readability of the target and the correlating positional data of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A positional determination device, the device comprising: a first barcode scanner with a first scan path, wherein the first barcode scanner is affixed to a moveable object; a second barcode scanner with a second scan path oriented in a direction substantially orthogonal to the direction of the first scan path, wherein the second barcode scanner is affixed to the moveable object; a positional encoding device for determining the location of the object in two substantially orthogonal coordinates with respect to an external object having a target. 2. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein the positional encoding device determines the position of the object relative to the external object in the first direction from signals received from the second barcode scanner based on object movement in the first direction. 3. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein the positional encoding device determines the position of the object relative to the external object in the second direction from signals received from the first barcode scanner based on object movement in the second direction. 4. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein the target comprises a first component and a second component. 5. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second components of the target is a barcode. 6. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second barcode scanners comprises a laser. 7. A method for determining the position of a robot relative to a target, the method comprising: translating a robot in a first direction, wherein the robot has a first and second barcode scanner, wherein each of the first and second barcode scanners have a scan path wherein the scan path for the first barcode scanner is oriented substantially in the first direction and the scan path for the second barcode scanner is oriented substantially in a second direction wherein the second direction is substantially perpendicular to the first direction, while translating the robot in the first direction, determining with the second barcode scanner the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the second barcode scanner; translating the robot in the second direction; while translating the robot in the second direction, determining with the first barcode scanner the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the first barcode scanner; and determining the center of the target from measurements taken by the first and second barcode scanners. 8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein the determination of the center of the target in the first direction comprises assigning the value of the midpoint between the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the second barcode scanner. 9. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein the determination of the center of the target in the second direction comprises assigning the value of the midpoint between the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the first barcode scanner. 10. A system for determining the position of a robot relative to a target, the system comprising: first means for translating a robot in a first direction, wherein the robot has a first and second barcode scanner, wherein each of the first and second barcode scanners have a scan path wherein the scan path for the first barcode scanner is oriented substantially in the first direction and the scan path for the second barcode scanner is oriented substantially in a second direction wherein the second direction is substantially perpendicular to the first direction, second means, while translating the robot in the first direction, for determining with the second barcode scanner the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the second barcode scanner; third means for translating the robot in the second direction; fourth means, while translating the robot in the second direction, for determining with the first barcode scanner the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the first barcode scanner; and fifth means determining the center of the target from measurements taken by the first and second barcode scanners. 11. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein the determination of the center of the target in the first direction comprises assigning the value of the midpoint between the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the second barcode scanner. 12. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein the determination of the center of the target in the second direction comprises assigning the value of the midpoint between the positions at which the target first becomes readable and then again becomes unreadable to the first barcode scanner. 