A control system for optimizing a shock absorber having a non-linear kinetic characteristic is described. The control system uses a fitness (performance) function that is based on the physical laws of minimum entropy and biologically inspired constraints relating to mechanical constraints and/or rider comfort, driveability, etc. In one embodiment, a genetic analyzer is used in an off-line mode to develop a teaching signal. An information filter is used to filter the teaching signal to produce a compressed teaching signal. The compressed teaching signal can be approximated online by a fuzzy controller that operates using knowledge from a knowledge base. In one embodiment, the control system includes a learning system, such as a neural network that is trained by the compressed training signal. The learning system is used to create a knowledge base for use by an online fuzzy controller. The online fuzzy controller is used to program a linear controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optimization control method for a shock absorber comprising the steps of: obtaining a difference between a time differential of entropy inside a shock absorber and a time differential of entropy given to said shock absorber from a control unit that controls said shock absorber; and optimizing at least one control parameter of said control unit by using a genetic algorithm, said genetic algorithm using said difference as a fitness function, said fitness function constrained by at least one biologically-inspired constraint. 2. The optimization control method of claim 1, wherein said time differential of said step of optimizing reduces an entropy provided to said shock absorber from said control unit. 3. The optimization control method of claim 1, wherein said control unit is comprises a fuzzy neural network, and wherein a value of a coupling coefficient for a fuzzy rule is optimized by using said genetic algorithm. 4. The optimization control method of claim 1, wherein said control unit comprises an offline module and a online control module, said method further including the steps of optimizing a control parameter based on said genetic algorithm by using said performance function, determining said control parameter of said online control module based on said control parameter and controlling said shock absorber using said online control module. 5. The optimization control method of claim 4, wherein said offline module provides optimization using a simulation model, said simulation model based on a kinetic model of a vehicle suspension system. 6. The optimization control method of claim 4, wherein said shock absorber is arranged to alter a damping force by altering a cross-sectional area of an oil passage, and said control unit controls a throttle valve to thereby adjust said cross-sectional area of said oil passage. 7. A method for control of a plant comprising the steps of: calculating a first entropy production rate corresponding to an entropy production rate of a control signal provided to a model of said plant; calculating a second entropy production rate corresponding to an entropy production rate of said model of said plant; determining a fitness function for a genetic optimizer using said first entropy production rate and said second entropy production rate; providing said fitness function to said genetic optimizer; providing a teaching output from said genetic optimizer to a information filter; providing a compressed teaching signal from said information filter to a fuzzy neural network, said fuzzy neural network configured to produce a knowledge base; providing said knowledge base to a fuzzy controller, said fuzzy controller using an error signal and said knowledge base to produce a coefficient gain schedule; and providing said coefficient gain schedule to a linear controller. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said genetic optimizer minimizes entropy production under one or more constraints. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of said constraints is related to a user-perceived evaluation of control performance. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein said model of said plant comprises a model of a suspension system. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein said second control system is configured to control a physical plant. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein said second control system is configured to control a shock absorber. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein said second control system is configured to control a damping rate of a shock absorber. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein said linear controller receives sensor input data from one or more sensors that monitor a vehicle suspension system. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of said sensors is an acceleration sensor that measures a vertical acceleration. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of said sensors is a length sensor that measures a change in length of at least a portion of said suspension system. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of said sensors is an angle sensor that measures an angle of at least a portion of said suspension system with respect to said vehicle. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of said sensors is an angle sensor that measures an angle of a first portion of said suspension system with respect to a second portion of said suspension system. 19. The method of claim 7, wherein said second control system is configured to control a throttle valve in a shock absorber. 20. A control apparatus comprising: off-line optimization means for determining a control parameter from an entropy production rate to produce a knowledge base from a compressed teaching signal; and online control means for using said knowledge base to develop a control parameter to control a plant. 