A tooling fixture includes a plurality of cylinders in a module fitted with pistons in which a portion thereof extends from the surface of the module. The cylinders are connected with a fluid source by a control valve assembly. The control valve assembly controls the amount of fluid to enter the cylinders in order to raise the pistons until a portion thereof are in contact with and support a workpiece. Once all of the pistons are in contact with and are fully supporting the workpiece, the fluid pressure is stabilized, maintaining the pistons at their set heights. Once the pistons are desired to be lowered, the valve assembly opens and the fluid can freely exit the cylinders and retract the pistons back into the module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tooling fixture for supporting workpieces, lower surfaces of ones of which have features of different heights, comprising: a body including a plurality of cylinder bores, at least one support fluid manifold fluidly connected to the cylinder bores, and a surface over which a workpiece is in use supported; a plurality of supporting elements for supporting the workpiece, the supporting elements being slideably disposed in respective ones of the cylinder bores such that at least ones of the supporting elements are moved to assume different heights from the surface of the body when adopting a supporting position in conforming contact with a lower surface of the workpiece; at least one support fluid reservoir for containing support fluid and operably fluidly connected to the at least one support fluid manifold such as to provide for displacement of support fluid between the at least one support fluid reservoir and the at least one support fluid manifold on sliding of at least ones of the supporting elements in adopting the supporting position; and a flow control unit for enabling displacement of support fluid between the at least one support fluid reservoir and the at least one support fluid manifold such as to enable the supporting elements to adopt the supporting position, with at least ones of the supporting elements being moved such that at least ones of the supporting elements, from a position not in conforming contact with the lower surface of the workpiece, assume the supporting position in conforming contact with the lower surface of the workpiece in which ones of the supporting elements assume different heights from others of the supporting elements in conformance with features on the lower surface of the workpiece, and locking the supporting elements when in the supporting position. 2. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the flow control unit is configured to displace support fluid from the at least one support fluid reservoir to the at least one support fluid manifold such as to cause the supporting elements to be extended to adopt the supporting position in conforming contact with the workpiece, with at least ones of the supporting elements being raised to different heights in conformance with features on a lower surface of the workpiece. 3. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the flow control unit is configured to cause displacement of support fluid from the at least one support fluid reservoir to the at least one support fluid manifold such as to cause the supporting elements to be extended to an extended position, and subsequently allow displacement of support fluid from the at least one support fluid manifold to the at least one support fluid reservoir such as to allow at least ones of the supporting elements to be lowered to adopt the supporting position in conforming contact with the workpiece, with at least ones of the supporting elements being lowered to different heights in conformance with features on a lower surface of the workpiece. 4. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the flow control unit includes a positive pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected to the at least one support fluid reservoir for displacing support fluid from the at least one support fluid reservoir to the at least one support fluid manifold such as to extend the supporting elements. 5. The tooling fixture of claim 4, wherein the flow control unit includes a vacuum source operably fluidly connected to the at least one support fluid reservoir for displacing support fluid from the at least one support fluid manifold to the at least one support fluid reservoir such as to retract the supporting elements. 6. The tooling fixture of claim 4, wherein the pneumatic pressure source is configured to exert a predeterminable pressure to the support fluid corresponding to a force to be exerted by the supporting elements on the workpiece. 7. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the at least one support fluid reservoir comprises a fixed volume accumulator operably fluidly connected at a bottom end with the at least one support fluid manifold, and the flow control unit includes a positive pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected to a top end of the accumulator for applying a positive pneumatic pressure to the contained support fluid such as to displace support fluid from the accumulator to the at least one support fluid manifold such as to extend the supporting elements. 8. The tooling fixture of claim 7, wherein the flow control unit includes a vacuum source operably fluidly connected to a top end of the accumulator for applying a negative pneumatic pressure to the contained support fluid to displace support fluid from the at least one support fluid manifold to the accumulator such as to retract the supporting elements. 9. The tooling fixture of claim 8, wherein the flow control unit includes first and second control valves operable selectively to fluidly connect one of the positive pneumatic pressure source and the vacuum source to the accumulator. 10. The tooling fixture of claim 9, wherein the first control valve comprises a three-port valve fluidly connected to the accumulator, the vacuum source and the second control valve, the first control valve being operable to fluidly connect the accumulator to one of the vacuum source or the second control valve, and the second control valve comprises a three-port valve fluidly connected to the first control valve, the positive pneumatic pressure source and atmosphere, the second control valve being operable, with the first control valve fluidly connecting the accumulator to the second control valve, to fluidly connect the accumulator to one of the positive pneumatic pressure source or atmosphere. 11. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the flow control unit includes at least one drive piston assembly comprising a support fluid drive piston slideably disposed in the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and a drive unit for sliding the support fluid drive piston in the respective at least one support fluid reservoir. 12. The tooling fixture of claim 11, wherein the support fluid drive piston comprises a floating piston. 13. The tooling fixture of claim 12, wherein the drive unit includes a positive pressure source operably fluidly connected to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir at a location, with respect to the support fluid drive piston, opposite the fluid connection between the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and the at least one support fluid manifold such as to slide the support fluid drive piston to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the at least one support fluid manifold and thereby extend the supporting elements. 14. The tooling fixture of claim 13, wherein the positive pressure source comprises a pneumatic pressure source. 15. The tooling fixture of claim 13, wherein the drive unit includes a negative pressure source operably fluidly connected to the at least one support fluid reservoir at a location, with respect to the support fluid drive piston, opposite the fluid connection between the at least one support fluid reservoir and the at least one support fluid manifold such as to slide the support fluid drive piston to displace support fluid from the at least one support fluid manifold to the at least one support fluid reservoir and thereby retract the supporting elements. 16. The tooling fixture of claim 15, wherein the negative pressure source comprises a vacuum source. 17. The tooling fixture of claim 11, wherein the drive unit comprises a hydraulic cylinder connected to the support fluid drive piston via a connecting rod such as to drive the connecting rod selectively in a first direction to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and thereby extend the supporting elements, and a second, opposite direction to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and thereby retract the supporting elements. 18. The tooling fixture of claim 11, wherein the drive unit comprises a pneumatic cylinder connected to the support fluid drive piston via a connecting rod such as to drive the connecting rod selectively in a first direction to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and thereby extend the supporting elements, and a second, opposite direction to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and thereby retract the supporting elements. 19. The tooling fixture of claim 18, wherein the pneumatic cylinder includes pneumatic connections at opposite ends thereof for enabling the connecting rod to be driven selectively in the opposite directions on application of a pneumatic pressure thereto, and the flow control unit includes a first pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected to one fluid connection of the pneumatic cylinder to slide the support fluid drive piston in the first direction to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and thereby extend the supporting elements, and a second pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected to the other fluid connection of the pneumatic cylinder to slide the support fluid drive piston in the other, second direction so as to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and thereby retract the supporting elements. 20. The tooling fixture of claim 18, wherein the pneumatic cylinder includes a clamp operable between a first, clamped state in which the clamp clamps the connecting rod to prevent operation of the pneumatic cylinder and a second, open state in which the connecting rod is freely movable and the pneumatic cylinder is operable. 21. The tooling fixture of claim 20, wherein the clamp is a pneumatically-actuated clamp normally in the clamped state and operable to the open state on application of a pneumatic actuation pressure thereto. 22. The tooling fixture of claim 11, wherein the drive unit is configured to exert a predeterminable pressure to the support fluid corresponding to a force to be exerted by the supporting elements on the workpiece. 23. The tooling fixture of claim 18, wherein the pneumatic cylinder includes pneumatic connections at opposite ends thereof for enabling the connecting rod to be driven in opposite directions on application of a pneumatic pressure thereto, the flow control unit includes at least one valve unit operably fluidly connecting at least one of the at least one support fluid reservoir and at least one of the at least one support fluid manifold, the or each valve unit including first and second valves disposed in parallel combination and operably fluidly connecting the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and the respective at least one support fluid manifold, the first valve being a one-way check valve configured to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and the second valve being a pneumatically-actuated valve operable to fluidly connect the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir such as to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir, a first pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected to one fluid connection of the pneumatic cylinder to slide the support fluid drive piston such as to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and thereby extend the supporting elements, and a second pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected both to the other fluid connection of the pneumatic cylinder and the second valve such as simultaneously to actuate the second valve to fluidly connect the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and slide the support fluid drive piston such to displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and thereby retract the supporting elements. 24. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the flow control unit includes at least one valve unit operably fluidly connecting at least one of the at least one support fluid reservoir and at least one of the at least one support fluid manifold. 25. The tooling fixture of claim 24, wherein the or each valve unit comprises a pressure-sensitive shut-off valve configured automatically to close and prevent displacement of support fluid between the respective at least one fluid support reservoir and the respective at least one fluid support manifold when the pressure exerted by the support fluid exceeds a predetermined value. 26. The tooling fixture of claim 25, wherein the shut-off valve comprises a piston body including a first port fluidly connected to the respective at least one fluid support reservoir and a second port fluidly connected to the respective at least one fluid support manifold, a piston unit slideably disposed in the piston body between a first, open position in which a fluid connection is provided between the first and second ports and a second, closed position in which no fluid connection is provided between the first and second ports, a biasing element for normally biasing the piston unit to the open position and having a biasing force which is such that the piston unit assumes the closed position when the pressure exerted by the support fluid exceeds a predetermined value, and a diaphragm seal sealingly connecting the piston unit to the piston body. 27. The tooling fixture of claim 26, wherein the piston unit includes a piston including a cavity and at least two sets of radial bores fluidly connected to the cavity and disposed such as to provide a fluid connection between the first and second ports through the axial bore when the piston unit is in the open position and provide no fluid connection between the first and second ports when the piston unit is in the closed position. 28. The tooling fixture of claim 27, wherein the cavity in the piston comprises a hollow bore closed at one end by a rigid ball. 29. The tooling fixture of claim 26, wherein the shut-off valve further comprises a screw adjuster for enabling adjustment of the biasing force of the biasing element. 30. The tooling fixture of claim 24, wherein the or each valve unit includes a valve fluidly connecting the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and the respective at least one support fluid manifold for-controlling flow of support fluid therebetween, and the flow control unit includes a pressure sensor fluidly connected to the at least one support fluid manifold for detecting the pressure exerted by the support fluid, and a controller operably fluidly connected to the pressure sensor and the valve such as to close the valve when the pressure exerted by the support fluid exceeds a predetermined value. 31. The tooling fixture of claim 24, wherein the or each valve unit includes first and second valves disposed in parallel combination and operably fluidly connecting the respective at least one fluid support reservoir and the respective at least one fluid support manifold, the first valve being a one-way check valve configured to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and the second valve being operable to fluidly connect the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir such as to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir. 32. The tooling fixture of claim 31, wherein the second valve is a pneumatically-actuated valve. 33. The tooling fixture of claim 32, wherein the flow control unit includes a pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected to the second valve to actuate the same and thereby extend the supporting elements. 34. The tooling fixture of claim 24, wherein the body includes at least one return fluid manifold fluidly connecting the cylinder bores, the cylinder bores being fluidly connected at one end to the respective at least one supply fluid manifold and at another end to the respective at least one return fluid manifold, and the flow control unit includes at least one valve unit operably fluidly connecting at least one of the at least one support fluid reservoir and at least one of the at least one support fluid manifold, the or each valve unit including first and second valves disposed in parallel combination and operably fluidly connecting the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and the respective at least one support fluid manifold, the first valve being a one-way check valve configured to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and the second valve being a pneumatically-actuated valve operable to fluidly connect the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir such as to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir, a pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected both to the respective at least one return fluid manifold and the second valve such as simultaneously to actuate the second valve to fluidly connect the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and introduce return fluid into the respective at least one return fluid manifold such as to retract the supporting elements and displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir. 35. The tooling fixture of claim 24, wherein the body includes at least one return fluid manifold fluidly connecting the cylinder bores, the cylinder bores being fluidly connected at one end to the respective at least one supply fluid manifold and at another end to the respective at least one return fluid manifold, further comprising: at least one positive pressure supply unit operably fluidly connected to at least one of the at least one return fluid manifold to retract the supporting elements, the or each positive pressure supply unit comprising a return fluid reservoir for containing a return fluid, a return fluid drive piston slideably disposed in the return fluid reservoir, and a positive pneumatic pressure source fluidly connected to the return fluid reservoir at a location, with respect to the return fluid drive piston, opposite the connection between the return fluid reservoir and the respective at least one return fluid manifold, and the flow control unit includes at least one valve unit operably fluidly connecting at least one of the at least one support fluid reservoir and at least one of the at least one support fluid manifold, the or each valve unit including first and second valves disposed in parallel combination and operably fluidly connecting the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and the respective at least one support fluid manifold, the first valve being a one-way check valve configured to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid reservoir to the respective at least one support fluid manifold and the second valve being a pneumatically-actuated valve operable to fluidly connect the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir such as to allow for flow of support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir, and a pneumatic pressure source operably fluidly connected both to the return fluid reservoir and the second valve such as simultaneously to actuate the second valve to fluidly connect the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir and slide the return fluid drive piston to displace return fluid from the return fluid reservoir to the respective at least one return fluid manifold such as to retract the supporting elements and displace support fluid from the respective at least one support fluid manifold to the respective at least one support fluid reservoir. 36. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the body includes a plurality of rows of cylinder bores and one support fluid manifold fluidly connected thereto. 37. The tooling fixture of claim 36, comprising: one support fluid reservoir operably fluidly connected to the one support fluid manifold. 38. The tooling fixture of claim 37, wherein the flow control unit includes one valve unit operably fluidly connecting the one support fluid reservoir and the one support fluid manifold. 39. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the body includes a plurality of rows of cylinder bores and a plurality of support fluid manifolds each fluidly connected to a plurality of the rows of cylinder bores. 40. The tooling fixture of claim 39, comprising: one support fluid reservoir operably fluidly connected to the support fluid manifolds. 41. The tooling fixture of claim 40, wherein the flow control unit includes one valve unit operably fluidly connecting the one support fluid reservoir and each support fluid manifold. 42. The tooling fixture of claim 40, wherein the flow control unit includes a plurality of valve units each operably fluidly connecting the one support fluid reservoir to each respective one of the support fluid manifolds. 43. The tooling fixture of claim 39, comprising: a plurality of support fluid reservoirs each fluidly connected to a respective one of the support fluid manifolds. 44. The tooling fixture of claim 43, wherein the flow control unit includes a plurality of valve units each operably fluidly connecting respective ones of the support fluid reservoirs and the support fluid manifolds. 45. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the body includes a plurality of rows of cylinder bores and a plurality of support fluid manifolds each fluidly connected to a respective one of the rows of cylinder bores. 46. The tooling fixture of claim 45, comprising: one support fluid reservoir operably fluidly connected to the support fluid manifolds. 47. The tooling fixture of claim 46, wherein the flow control unit includes a plurality of valve units each operably fluidly connecting the one support fluid reservoir to a respective one of the support fluid manifolds. 48. The tooling fixture of claim 45, comprising: a plurality of support fluid reservoirs each fluidly connected to a respective one of the support fluid manifolds. 49. The tooling fixture of claim 48, wherein the flow control unit includes a plurality of valve units each operably fluidly connecting respective ones of the support fluid reservoirs and the support fluid manifolds. 50. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the body includes at least one return fluid manifold fluidly connecting the cylinder bores, the cylinder bores being fluidly connected at one end to the respective at least one supply fluid manifold and at another end to the respective at least one return fluid manifold, and further comprising: at least one positive pressure supply unit operably fluidly connected to at least one of the at least one return fluid manifold to return the supporting elements to a retracted position. 51. The tooling fixture of claim 50, wherein the or each at least one positive pressure supply unit comprises a positive pressure source. 52. The tooling fixture of claim 51, wherein the positive pressure source comprises a pneumatic pressure source. 53. The tooling fixture of claim 50, wherein the or each positive pressure supply unit comprises a return fluid reservoir for containing a return fluid, a return fluid drive piston slideably disposed in the return fluid reservoir, and a positive pressure source fluidly connected to the return fluid reservoir at a location, with respect to the return fluid drive piston, opposite the connection between the return fluid reservoir and the respective at least one return fluid manifold. 54. The tooling fixture of claim 53, wherein the return fluid drive piston comprises a floating piston. 55. The tooling fixture of claim 53, wherein the positive pressure source comprises a pneumatic pressure source. 56. The tooling fixture of claim l, wherein the or each supply fluid reservoir comprises a cavity in the body. 57. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the or each reservoir comprises a tube integrally attached to the body. 58. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the supporting elements each comprise a piston and a rod of lesser diameter than the piston secured to the piston. 59. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the supporting elements each comprise a rod. 60. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the body includes a plurality of cylinder sleeve assemblies disposed in respective ones of the cylinder bores and in which respective ones of the supporting elements are slideably disposed. 61. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the supporting elements each include an end cap fixed to an end thereof. 62. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the body comprises a body section including a plurality of cylinder bores therethrough, a lower section fixed to a lower surface of the body section and including at least one channel along an upper surface thereof and at least one outlet hole fluidly connected to the at least one channel, the at least one channel defining the at least one fluid supply manifold, and an upper section mounted to an upper surface of the body section, the upper section including a plurality of apertures therein in registration with the cylinder bores in the body section through which respective ones of the supporting elements are extendable. 63. The tooling fixture of claim 62, wherein the body further comprises a gasket disposed between the body section and the lower section. 64. The tooling fixture of claim 1, wherein the body comprises at least one module, and further comprising a base on which the body is mountable. 65. The tooling fixture of claim 64, wherein the body comprises a plurality of support modules, each including at least one row of cylinder bores. 66. A screen printing machine comprising the tooling fixture of claim 1 and a printed circuit board disposed proximate to the surface of the body thereof. 67. A placement machine comprising the tooling fixture of claim 1 and a printed circuit board disposed proximate to the surface of the body thereof. 