An apparatus and method for carrying out and monitoring the progress and properties of multiple reactions is disclosed. The method and apparatus are especially useful for synthesizing, screening, and characterizing combinatorial libraries, but also offer significant advantages over conventional experimental reactors as well. The apparatus generally includes multiple vessels for containing reaction mixtures, and systems for controlling the stirring rate and temperature of individual reaction mixtures or groups of reaction mixtures. In addition, the apparatus may include provisions for independently controlling pressure in each vessel. In situ monitoring of individual reaction mixtures provides feedback for process controllers, and also provides data for determining reaction rates, product yields, and various properties of the reaction products, including viscosity and molecular weight.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A modular reactor for analyzing chemical reactions in an array of materials, comprising at least two reactor modules, each of said reactor modules having at least one reactor vessel for receiving materials to be analyzed therein, a temperature control device associated with at least one of said reactor modules, wherein said temperature control device varies the temperature of said at least one reactor module such that said at least one reactor module has a different temperature than the other of said at least two reactor modules, and an analytical system comprising one or more sensors for in-situ evaluation of viscosity of the materials in each of the reactor vessels. 2. The reactor in claim 1, further including insulating material between said at least two reactor modules. 3. The reactor in claim 1, wherein said temperature control device is disposed within said reactor module. 4. The reactor in claim 1, wherein said temperature control device is an electrical heating strip. 5. The reactor in claim 4, wherein said electrical heating strip is selected from the group consisting of etched stainless steel circuit paths encased in silicon rubber, etched stainless steel circuit paths encased in polyimide, or resistive wire encased in a ceramic and metal sheath. 6. The reactor in claim 4, wherein said electrical heating strip is sandwiched between a heater base plate and a heater top plate to form an electrical heating unit, said electrical heating unit being positioned between at least one reactor module and a heat transfer plate that is in thermal contact with said at least two reactor modules. 7. The reactor in claim 6, wherein said heat transfer plate is in mechanical contact with said at least two reactor modules. 8. The reactor in claim 1, further including a temperature sensor in thermal contact with each of said at least two reactor modules for monitoring the temperature of said at least two reactor modules. 9. The reactor in claim 8, wherein said temperature sensor is one of a thermocouple, thermistor or resistance thermometric devices. 10. The reactor in claim 9, further including a processor connected to said temperature sensors for collecting and analyzing temperature data from each of said at least two reactor modules, wherein said processor produces a signal to vary the temperature of said at least two reactor modules. 11. The reactor of claim 1 wherein each of the reactor modules comprises a plurality of reactor vessels. 12. The reactor of claims 1 or 11 wherein the reactor vessels are wells. 13. The reactor of claims 1 or 11 wherein the reactor vessels are removable liners. 14. The reactor of claims 1 or 11 wherein the reactor vessels are pressure vessels or are individually contained in pressure vessels, and the reactor further comprises a pressure monitoring or control system associated with each of the reactor vessels. 15. The reactor of claim 1 further comprising a base plate, the at least two reactor modules being movably coupled to the base plate. 16. The reactor of claim 15 wherein the at least two reactor modules are movably coupled to the base plate for linear movement substantially within the plane of the base plate. 17. The reactor of claim 15 wherein the reactor modules are movably coupled to the base plate by reactor module guides adapted to mate with channels on the surface of the base plate. 18. The reactor of claim 1 further comprising a temperature control system comprising (i) a first temperature control device for commonly biasing said at least two reactor modules to a first predetermined temperature, said first temperature control device being in thermal contact with said at least two reactor modules, (ii) a second temperature control device associated with one of the at least two reactor modules for selectively varying the temperature of said at least one reactor module to a second predetermined temperature, and (iii) a third temperature control device associated with another of the at least two reactor modules for selectively varying the temperature of the another reactor module to a third predetermined temperature, said first predetermined temperature being different from each of said second and third predetermined temperatures. 19. The reactor of claim 1 further comprising a stirring blade in each of the reactor vessels, wherein the one or more sensors measure the effect of viscous forces on stirring blade rotation. 20. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the one or more sensors measure the applied torque required to maintain a constant angular velocity of the stirring blade. 21. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the one or more sensors include a strain gauge associated with each of the stirring blades. 22. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the one or more sensors measure the power consumption of a drive motor associated with the stirring blade. 23. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the one or more sensors include an optical detector associated with each of the stirring blades. 24. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the one or more sensors include a magnetic field detector associated with each of the stirring blades. 25. The reactor of claim 19 wherein the one or more sensors include an inductive coil sensor. 26. The reactor of claim 1 further wherein the one or more sensors include a resonator or mechanical oscillator. 27. The reactor of claim 26 wherein the one or more sensors include a shear-mode transducer. 28. The reactor of claim 26 wherein the one or more sensors include a tuning fork. 29. The reactor of claim 26 wherein the one or more sensors include a unimorph resonator. 30. The reactor of claim 26 wherein the one or more sensors include a bimorph resonator. 31. The reactor in claim 1, further including a heat transfer plate in thermal contact with said at least two reactor modules. 32. The reactor in claim 31, wherein said heat transfer plate further includes a plurality of passages for receiving a temperature control medium. 33. The reactor in claim 32, wherein said temperature control medium is a thermal fluid. 34. The reactor in claim 33, wherein said thermal fluid is a member of the set consisting of water, silicone oil and halogenated solvents. 35. The reactor in claim 31, wherein said temperature control device is fixedly secured to said at least one reactor module. 36. The reactor in claim 31, wherein said temperature control device is fixedly secured to said heat transfer plate. 37. The reactor in claim 31, wherein said temperature control device is a thermoelectric module. 38. The reactor in claim 37, wherein said thermoelectric module includes a heater base plate, a heater top plate and a thermoelectric device, said thermoelectric device being sandwiched between said heater base plate and said heater top plate. 39. The reactor in claim 37, wherein said thermoelectric module is sandwiched between said at least one reactor module and said heat transfer plate. 40. The reactor in claim 31, further including a rack for storing said at least two reactor modules. 41. The reactor in claim 40, wherein said heat transfer plate is fixedly secured to said rack. 42. The reactor in claim 40, further including an insulating casing for storing said rack and said heat transfer plate. 43. The reactor in claim 42, wherein said casing has a selectively removable top plate. 44. The reactor in claim 43, wherein said rack is selectively removable from said casing. 45. A method for analyzing, synthesizing or characterizing an array of materials comprising the steps of providing a modular reactor comprising at least two reactor modules, each of the reactor modules having at least one reactor vessel, placing material in said reactor vessels, independently controlling the temperature of the at least two reactor modules to different predetermined temperatures, and evaluating the viscosity of the materials in situ in each of the reactor vessels. 46. The method in claim 45, wherein evaluating the viscosity of the materials comprises monitoring and detecting changes in the materials at predefined intervals of time and determining viscosity of the materials as a function of time based on the detected changes. 47. The method in claim 46, further comprising varying the temperature of the reactor modules at a predetermined rate, wherein the viscosity of the materials is determined as a function of temperature. 48. The method in claim 46, wherein determining viscosity includes comparing the detected changes of said materials in said at least two reactor modules. 49. The method in claim 45, wherein said reactor modules are insulated from one another. 50. The method in claim 49, wherein said at least two reactor modules are insulated from environmental conditions. 51. The method of claim 45, wherein the modular reactor further comprises a heat transfer plate in thermal contact with said at least two reactor modules. 52. The method of claim 51 wherein controlling the temperature of the at least two reactor modules comprises biasing the at least two reactor modules using said heat transfer plate to a first predetermined temperature and independently varying the temperature of said at least two reactor modules using a separate temperature control device associated with each of the reactor modules. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein said first predetermined temperature is below ambient. 54. The method of claim 52, wherein said first predetermined temperature of said at least two reactor modules is maintained constant over time. 55. The method of claim 52, wherein said step of varying the temperature of said at least two reactor modules includes varying the temperature of each of said at least two reactor modules to a second and third predetermined temperature, respectively, wherein said second and third predetermined temperatures are different from each other and from said first predetermined temperature. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein said second and third predetermined temperatures are varied above said first predetermined temperature. 57. The method of claim 51 further comprising continuously flowing a thermal fluid through passages disposed in said heat transfer plate. 58. The method of claim 51, wherein said step of controlling the temperature of said reactor modules includes varying the amount of electric power supplied to separate temperature control devices associated with each of the at least two reactor modules. 59. The method of claim 45, wherein said temperature of said at least two reactor modules are controlled to vary over time. 60. The method of claim 45, wherein the viscosity of the materials are evaluated over time and said temperature of said at least two reactor modules is independently controlled based on the determined viscosity. 61. The method of claim 45 wherein the viscosity of the materials in each of the reactor vessels is evaluated in situ by stirring the materials in each of the reactor vessels using a stirring blade, and measuring the effect of viscous forces on stirring blade rotation. 62. The method of claim 61 wherein the viscosity is evaluated by measuring the applied torque required to maintain a constant angular velocity of the stirring blade. 63. The method of claim 61 wherein the viscosity is evaluated by measuring the power consumption of a drive motor associated with the stirring blade. 64. The method of claim 61 wherein the viscosity is evaluated by measuring the phase angle between the stirring blade and an associated driving force. 65. The method of claim 45 further wherein the viscosity of materials in each of the reactor vessels is evaluated in situ using a resonator or mechanical oscillator. 66. The method of claim 65 wherein a variable frequency excitation signal is applied to the resonator or mechanical oscillator. 67. The method of claim 65 wherein the resonator or mechanical oscillator is a tuning fork. 68. The method of claim 45 further comprising commonly biasing the at least two reactor modules to a predetermined temperature. 69. The method of claim 45 wherein each of the reactor modules comprises a plurality of reactor vessels. 70. The method of claims 45 or 69 wherein the reactor vessels are wells. 71. The method of claims 45 or 69 wherein the reactor vessels are removable liners. 72. The method of claims 45 or 69 farther comprising pressuring each of the reactor vessels and monitoring or controlling the pressure of each of the reactor vessels. 