Brush failure detection on a robotic device for use with a data storage library is accomplished through the use of two brushes drawing power from the same conductor. For example, each brush conducts electrical current between the robotic device and a conductor. Electronics determine operating status of each brush based on a measurement of the difference in current conducted through each brush in the pair of brushes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting brush failure for a robotic device, the robotic device traveling along at least one rail associated with a data storage library, the at least one rail including a first conductor and a second conductor for supplying power to the robotic device, the method comprising: sensing a first current through a first brush, the first brush passing the first current between the first conductor and the robotic device; sensing a second current through a second brush, the second brush passing the second current between the first conductor and the robotic device; sensing a third current through a third brush, the third brush passing the third current between the second conductor and the robotic device; sensing a fourth current through a fourth brush, the fourth brush passing the fourth current between the second conductor and the robotic device; driving at least one motor with at least one of the first current and the second current and at least one of the third current and the fourth current, the at least one motor propelling the robotic device along the at least one rail thereby permitting access to a plurality of data storage media devices held within the library; and determining a failure of at least one of the first brush, the second brush, the third brush and the fourth brush based on sensing the first current, sensing the second current, sensing the third current and sensing the fourth current. 2. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 1 wherein failure is determined based on the difference between the first current and the second current. 3. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 1 wherein failure is determined based on the difference between the third current and the fourth current. 4. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 1 wherein the first current and the second current flow along parallel paths to drive the at least one motor when the first brush and the second brush are operational. 5. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 1 wherein the third current and the fourth current flow along parallel paths to drive the at least one motor when the third brush and the fourth brush are operational. 6. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 1 wherein the first brush and the second brush are spaced apart along the first conductor in the direction of travel of the robotic device. 7. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 1 wherein the third brush and the fourth brush are spaced apart along the second conductor in the direction of travel of the robotic device. 8. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 1 further comprising transmitting the determined brush failure from the robotic device to a control device. 9. A method of detecting brush failure as in claim 8 wherein the determined brush failure is transmitted between the robotic device and the control device along at least one of the first conductor and the second conductor. 10. A data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations for holding data storage media disposed within the library; at least one rail disposed within the library located to provide access to the storage locations; at least one conductor along each rail, each conductor carrying electrical current; at least one robotic device mounted to travel along the at least one rail, each robotic device accessing storage media held in the storage locations; at least one pair of brushes on each robotic device, each brush conducting electrical current between the robotic device and the conductor; and electronics within each robotic device operative to determine an operating status of each brush based on a measurement of at least one electrical parameter associated with each brush in the pair of brushes. 11. A data storage library as in claim 10 further comprising at least one controller controlling operation of at least one robotic device, the electronics operative to transmit a signal indicative of the operating status to the controller. 12. A data storage library as in claim 11 wherein the electronics transmit the signal through at least one of the conductors. 13. A data storage library as in claim 10 wherein each brush pair forms a parallel current path. 14. A data storage library as in claim 10 wherein each brush pair forms a series current path. 15. A data storage library as in claim 10 wherein brushes in each brush pair are spaced apart from each other along a distance in a direction of travel of the robotic device. 16. A mechanism for accessing data storage media devices in a data storage library, the mechanism operative to access data storage media by traveling along a rail having an electrical conductor running along the rail, the mechanism comprising: a first brush contacting the conductor, the first brush conducting current between the conductor and the mechanism when the first brush is properly operating; a second brush contacting the conductor, the second brush conducting current between the conductor and the mechanism when the second brush is properly operating; electronics operative to determine a difference signal as the difference in current conducted by the first brush and by the second brush; and control logic determining an operative condition of the first brush and the second brush based on the difference signal. 17. A mechanism for accessing data storage media as in claim 16 wherein the control logic is further operative to generate a health signal indicative of the operative condition and to transmit the health signal through at least one of the brushes. 18. A mechanism for accessing data storage media as in claim 16 further comprising: a second conductor running along the rail; a third brush contacting the conductor, the third brush conducting current between the second conductor and the mechanism when the third brush is properly operating; a fourth brush contacting the conductor, the fourth brush conducting current between the second conductor and the mechanism when the fourth brush is properly operating. 19. A mechanism for accessing data storage media as in claim 18 wherein the control logic further determines the health of the third brush and the fourth brush based on current sensed through the third brush and current sensed through the fourth brush. 20. A mechanism for accessing data storage media as in claim 18 wherein the first brush and the second brush comprise a first current path and wherein the third brush and the fourth brush comprise a second current path in series with the first current path. 21. A mechanism for accessing data storage media as in claim 16 wherein the first brush and the second brush supply current to an electric motor propelling the mechanism along the rail. 