The present invention is drawn to an incremental link robot mast for vacuuming nuclear waste from a storage silo. The mast is made of incrementally linked segments that are clamshell in construction to enclose and shield the working cables of the vacuuming robot. Each segment is linked together as needed by a transverse hinge pin and two hydraulic connecting pins. The clamshell is hinged and latched together by an array of screws. The robot comprises a linked clamshell mast and a master-slave robot arm on the end of the mast which includes tools for viewing and breaking up the waste and vacuuming same to a removal area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An incremental link robot mast assembly adapted for removing waste material from a storage silo having a dome with a limited access top opening comprising: a mast assembly extending through the top opening made up of incrementally linked segments; a robot arm operatively connected to said mast assembly at one end of said mast assembly and adapted for holding various tools for actuating the removal of waste from the silo through said mast assembly; each of said segments of said mast assembly being selectively linked to each other by a transverse pin and hydraulic connections; and each of said segments being enclosed in a clamshell structure and having means therein to aid the removal of waste materials from the silo through said mast assembly. 2. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 1 wherein each clamshell structure comprises a hinged circumferential enclosure having an alignment groove extending vertically thereon to align each selected connecting segment. 3. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 2 wherein each clamshell structure is latched together by an array of screws. 4. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 3 wherein the clamshell segments nearer the silo dome are lighter in weight than the segments near said robot arm. 5. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 1 wherein said silo is a site 3 silo holding nuclear waste therein and said means for aiding removal includes a vacuum line extending through said mast assembly to said robot arm for vacuuming the waste therethrough. 6. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 5 wherein said vacuum line is spaced in each clamshell structure to be at least one in away from said clamshell to prevent loading. 7. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 6 wherein said means for aiding removal includes an air hose extending through said mast assembly to said robot attached thereto for blowing away waste material. 8. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 7 wherein said robot arm has means for grasping tools not extending through said mast assembly for removing waste material which is not readily removed by vacuuming. 9. An incremental link robot mast assembly for removing waste material as set forth in claim 8 including a video camera attached to said robot arm for viewing the waste material. 