Compounds of formula I: ##STR1## wherein A, B, D, and R are as defined herein and their agriculturally acceptable salts are disclosed as effective insecticides. In addition, compositions comprising an insecticidally effective amount of a compound of Formula I in admixture with at least one agriculturally acceptable extender or adjuvant and methods of controlling insects comprising applying said compositions to locus on crops where control is desired are disclosed. It is emphasized that this abstract is provided to comply with the rules requiring an abstract that will allow a searcher or other reader to quickly ascertain the subject matter of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims (see 37 C.F.R. 1.72(b)).
Claims We claim: 1. A compound of formula I: ##STR224## wherein: A is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen; aryl; alkylheterocyclyl; alkenylaminopolycyclyl; alkenylaminoheterocyclyl; alkylaminopolycyclyl; carbonylaminopolycyclyl; where the aryl, heterocyclyl and polycyclyl moieties are optionally substituted with one or more of the following: halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, carbonyl, alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, haloalkoxycarbonyl, or aryl; and Formula III, where Formula III is with the provisos that (i) when A, B and D are hydrogen, R is other than heterocyclyl; (ii) when A, B, and D are hydrogen, R is --T--(CH.sub.2).sub.m --R.sup.1, T is oxygen, m is 2, R.sup.1 is --N(R.sup.8)(R.sup.9), and R.sup.8 is hydrogen, R.sup.9 is other than hydrogen; and (iii) when B and D are hydrogen, A is --(CH.sub.2).sub.n --U--R.sup.2, R is --T--(CH.sub.2).sub.m --R.sup.1, T is oxygen, U is oxygen, m is 2, n is 1, R.sup.1 is --N(R.sup.8)(R.sup.9), R.sup.2 is 1-R.sup.3, J, L, W, are hydrogen; and R.sup.8 is alkyl, R.sup.9 is other than the same alkyl; and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 2. A compound of claim 1 wherein A is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen; alkylaminopolycyclyl; carbonylaminopolycyclyl; where the polycyclyl moieties are optionally substituted with one or more of the following: halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, carbonyl, alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, haloalkoxycarbonyl, or aryl; and Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 3. A compound of claim 2 wherein A is hydrogen or Formula III, where Formula III is 4. A compound of claim 3 wherein A is Formula III, where Formula III is 5. A compound of claim 1 wherein A is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen; alkylaminopolycyclyl; and carbonylaminopolycyclyl; where the polycyclyl moieties are optionally substituted with one or more of the following: halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, carbonyl, alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, haloalkoxycarbonyl, or aryl; and Formula III, where Formula III is 6. A compound of claim 5 wherein A is hydrogen or Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 7. A compound of formula I: ##STR232## wherein: A is Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 8. A compound of claim 7 wherein A is Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 9. A compound of claim 8 wherein A is Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 10. A compound of claim 9 wherein A is Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 11. A compound of claim 10 wherein R.sup.1 is --N(R.sup.8)(R.sup.9), X is 4-chloro or 5-chloro, Y is 6-chloro, Z is hydrogen, and R.sup.8 and R.sup.9 are ethyl. 12. A hydrochloride salt of the compound of claim 11. 13. A compound of claim 10 wherein R.sup.1 is --N(O)(R.sup.14)(R.sup.15), X is 5-chloro, Y is 6-chloro, Z is hydrogen, and R.sup.14 and R.sup.15 are ethyl. 14. A compound of claim 8 wherein A is Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 15. A compound of claim 14 wherein A is Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 16. A compound of claim 15 wherein the piperazinyl moiety is substituted with 4-ethyl; X is 5-chloro, Y is 6-chloro or 6-bromo, and Z is hydrogen. 17. A compound of formula I: ##STR239## wherein: A is selected from the group consisting of aryl; alkylheterocyclyl; alkenylaminopolycyclyl; alkenylaminoheterocyclyl; alkylaminopolycyclyl; carbonylaminopolycyclyl; where the aryl, heterocyclyl and polycyclyl moieties are optionally substituted with one or more of the following: halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, carbonyl, alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl, alkoxycarbonyl, haloalkoxycarbonyl, or aryl; and Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 18. A compound of claim 17 wherein A is selected from the group consisting of alkylaminopolycyclyl; and carbonylaminopolycyclyl; where the polycyclyl moieties are optionally substituted with one or more of the following: halogen, cyano, nitro, amino, carboxyl, alkyl, haloalkyl, alkoxy, haloalkoxy, carbonyl, alkylcarbonyl, haloalkylcarbonyl, alkoxy~arbonyl, haloalkoxycarbonyl, or aryl; and Formula III, where Formula III is 19. A compound of claim 18 wherein A is Formula III, where Formula III is and the corresponding agriculturally acceptable salts thereof. 