A system and method for managing, switching, and reconfiguring physical connections of telecommunications services that provides improved cost and timeliness. The method comprises the steps of: providing telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber via a cross-connect switch connected to a telecommunications network, the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber connected to a first telecommunications service, the cross-connect switch implemented between a central office and a subscriber location; receiving, at a network operations center connected to the cross connect switch, an indication that the first subscriber has terminated or changed service; in response to receiving, at the network operations center, an indication that the first subscriber has changed service, transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to switch the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service to a second service; and in response to receiving the command at the cross-connect switch, switching the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first telecommunications service to a second telecommunications service.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of providing telecommunications service comprising the steps of: providing telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber via an automated, physical, metallic, matrix cross-connect switch connected to a telecommunications network, the automated cross-connect switch remotely operable to break and establish physical connections under control by a processor and implemented between a central office and a subscriber location, the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber physically connected to a first telecommunications service; receiving, at a network operations center remote from and communicatively connected to the automated cross connect switch, an indication that the first subscriber has terminated or changed service; in response to receiving, at the network operations center, the indication that the first subscriber has changed service, transmitting a command to the automated cross connect switch to automatically switch the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber from the first telecommunications service to a second telecommunications service; and in response to receiving the command at the automated cross-connect switch, automatically under control by a processor breaking the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the first telecommunications service and to establish a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the second telecommunications service. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the cross-connect switch is implemented as a pole mounted facility. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the cross-connect switch is implemented as a curb-side facility. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: replacing a patch panel with the cross-connect switch. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of replacing the patch panel with the cross-connect switch comprises the step of: pre-connecting the cross-connect switch initially to match connections within the patch panel. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of pre-connecting the cross-connect switch initially to match connections within the patch panel comprises the steps of: accessing a service database at the central office to obtain a configuration of the patch panel for replacement; and commanding the cross-connect switch to reproduce the connections of the patch panel as defined in the service database. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of replacing the patch panel with the cross-connect switch further comprises the steps of: wiring the cross-connect switch in parallel with the patch panel; verifying the connections using test routines; and disconnecting the patch panel. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the steps of: in response to receiving, at the network operations center, an indication that the first subscriber has terminated service, transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service; and in response to receiving the command at the cross-connect switch, switching out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises the steps of: receiving, at the network operations enter, an indication that a second subscriber has initiated service; in response to receiving the indication at the network operations center, transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to connect data processing equipment of the second subscriber to a new telecommunication service; and in response to receiving the command at the cross-connect switch, connecting the data processing equipment of second subscriber to the telecommunication service. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 16. A system for providing telecommunications service comprising: means for providing telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber connected to a first telecommunications service the means for providing telecommunications service comprising an automated, physical, metallic, matrix connected to a telecommunications network, the automated cross-connect switch remotely operable to break and establish physical connections under control by a processor, the automated cross-connect switch implemented between a central office and a subscriber location; means for receiving an indication that the first subscriber has terminated or changed service, the means for receiving remote from and communicatively connected to the means for providing telecommunications service; means for transmitting a command to the means for providing telecommunications service to automatically switch a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber from the first telecommunications service to a telecommunications second service, the means operable in response to receiving an indication that the first subscriber has changed service; and means for automatically under control by a processor breaking the physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the first telecommunications service and to establish a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the second telecommunications service, the means operable in response to receiving the command. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the cross-connect switch is implemented as a pole mounted facility. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the cross-connect switch is implemented as a curb-side facility. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the cross-connect switch replaces a patch panel. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the cross-connect switch is initially pre-connected to match connections within the patch panel. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the cross-connect switch is initially pre-connected to match connections within the patch panel by accessing a service database at the central office to obtain a configuration of the patch panel for replacement, and commanding the cross-connect switch to reproduce the connections of the patch panel as defined in the service database. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the cross-connect switch replaces a patch panel by wiring the cross-connect switch in parallel with the patch panel, verifying the connections using test routines, and disconnecting the patch panel. 23. The system of claim 16, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 25. The system of claim 16, wherein the system further comprises: means for transmitting a command to means for providing telecommunications service to switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service, the means operable in response to receiving an indication that the first subscriber has terminated service; and means for switching out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service, the means operable in response to receiving the command. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the system further comprises: means for receiving an indication that a second subscriber has initiated service; means for transmitting a command to the cross connect switch to connect data processing equipment of the second subscriber to a second service, the means operable in response to receiving the indication; and means for connecting the data processing equipment of second subscriber to the new telecommunication service, the means operable in response to receiving the command. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 31. A system for providing telecommunications service comprising: an automated, physical, metallic, matrix cross-connect switch connected to a telecommunications network, the automated cross-connect switch remotely operable to break and establish physical connections under control by a processor and to provide telecommunications service for telecommunications equipment of a first subscriber physically connected to a first telecommunications service, the automated cross-connect switch implemented between a central office and a subscriber location; and a network operations center remote from and communicatively connected to the automated cross connect switch, operable to receive an indication that the first subscriber has terminated or changed service and operable to, in response to receiving an indication that the first subscriber has changed service, transmit a command to the automated cross connect switch to automatically switch the wherein the automated cross-connect switch is further operable to, in response to receiving the command, automatically under control by a processor break the physical the connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the first telecommunications service and to establish a physical connection of the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber with the second telecommunications service. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the cross-connect switch is implemented as a pole mounted facility. 33. The system of claim 31, wherein the cross-connect switch is implemented as a curb-side facility. 34. The system of claim 31, wherein the cross-connect switch replaces a patch panel. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the cross-connect switch is initially pre-connected to match connections within the patch panel. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the cross-connect switch is initially pre-connected to match connections within the patch panel by accessing a service database at the central office to obtain a configuration of the patch panel for replacement, and commanding the cross-connect switch to reproduce the connections of the patch panel as defined in the service database. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the cross-connect switch replaces a patch panel by wiring the cross-connect switch in parallel with the patch panel, verifying the connections using test routines, and disconnecting the patch panel. 38. The system of claim 31, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 40. The system of claim 31, wherein: the network operations center is further operable to, in response to receiving an indication that the first subscriber has terminated service, transmit a command to the cross connect switch to switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service; and the cross-connect switch is further operable to, in response to receiving the command, switch out the connection of the telecommunications equipment of first subscriber from the first service. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein: the network operations center is further operable to receive an indication that a second subscriber has initiated service and operable to, in response to receiving the indication, transmit a command to the cross connect switch to connect data processing equipment of the second subscriber to a telecommunication service; and the cross-connect switch is further operable to connect the data processing equipment of second subscriber to the telecommunication service, in response to receiving the command. 44. The system of claim 42, wherein the telecommunications equipment of the first subscriber is located in a multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein the cross connect switch is connected to a plurality of telecommunications equipment located in the multiple dwelling unit or multiple tenant unit. 