A tool and process utilizing the tool for forming a compressed-radius hem on a sheet metal assembly is provided. A concave portion on the tool is formed by at least two surfaces that together define a cavity. A flange on the perimeter of an outer panel is initially formed to an approximate perpendicular angle and is then formed to about 45.degree.. In a final forming step, an intermediate portion of the flange is engaged by the cavity and is formed into a compressed-radius hem.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool for forming a hem on a sheet metal assembly comprising an inner panel having an outwardly extending flange and an outer panel having a bendable flange that is initially oriented generally perpendicular to an outer peripheral portion of the outer panel, the tool comprising: a supporting surface on which the outer panel and inner panel are located; a roller having a cylindrical surface and a shaped portion, the cylindrical surface being oriented to contact an inner portion of the bendable flange of the outer panel, the cylindrical surface pressing the bendable flange inwardly toward the outwardly extending flange of the inner panel in a first direction, the shaped portion extending from a first circumferential line at the intersection of the shaped portion and the cylindrical surface to a second circumferential line axially spaced from the first circumferential line and formed by at least two surfaces that together define a cavity relative to a chord extending between the first and second circumferential lines, and wherein the shaped portion engages an intermediate portion of the bendable flange between a bight portion and the inner portion of the flange and applies a force to the intermediate portion at an angle relative to the first direction to compress the hem radially as the cylindrical surface presses against the inner portion of the flange. 2. The tool of claim 1 wherein the surfaces defining the cavity include two conical surfaces that lie in two different coaxial conical sections that are coaxial with the cylindrical surface. 3. The tool of claim 2 wherein the surfaces defining the cavity further include a third conical surface that lies in a third coaxial conical section that is different than the two other conical sections and coaxial with the cylindrical surface. 4. The tool of claim 3 wherein the surfaces defining the cavity further include a fourth conical surface that lies in a fourth coaxial conical section that is different than the three other conical sections and coaxial with the cylindrical surface. 5. The tool of claim 1 wherein the surfaces defining the cavity further include a conical surface that is coaxial with the cylindrical surface and a curved surface that is contiguous with the conical surface. 6. The tool of claim 5 wherein the curved surface is between the conical surface and the cylindrical surface and is also contiguous with the cylindrical surface. 7. The tool of claim 1 wherein a bend in the bendable flange of the outer panel between the inner portion of the bendable flange and the intermediate portion of the bendable flange is engaged by the roller proximate the first circumferential line. 8. The tool of claim 1 wherein the shaped portion applies force in a direction normal to the intermediate portion of the flange. 9. The tool of claim 1 wherein the cylindrical surface is used in a pre-hemming step to initially bend the flange from its initial generally perpendicular orientation to extend at an angle of generally 45.degree. and partially over the outwardly extending flange of the inner panel. 10. The tool of claim 1 wherein the shaped portion has an outer circumference that is greater than the circumference of the cylindrical surface. 11. The tool of claim 1 wherein the concave shaped portion has an outer circumference that is less than the circumference of the cylindrical surface. 12. A forming tool for forming a compressed radius hem for securing two panels together comprising: a first forming surface that is parallel to a perimeter portion of an inner panel and oriented for pressing a distal portion of a hem flange of the outer panel toward a surface of the inner panel in a first direction, a second forming surface contiguous with the first forming surface that is oriented at a first oblique angle relative to the first forming surface; and a third forming surface contiguous with the second forming surface that is oriented at a second oblique angle relative to the first forming surface that is less oblique to the first forming surface than the first oblique angle, wherein at least one of the second or third forming surfaces engages an intermediate portion of the hem flange and applies a force to the intermediate portion in a second direction at an angle relative to the first direction to compress the hem radially as the first forming surface presses in the first direction against the distal portion of the hem flange. 13. The forming tool of claim 12 wherein the forming tool is a roller. 14. The forming tool of claim 12 wherein the forming tool is a press die. 15. A method of hemming an outer metal panel having a perimeter flange extending generally perpendicularly relative to the body of the outer panel and an inner metal panel together, the method comprising: placing the inner panel and outer panel together; forming the perimeter flange in a pre-hem pass with a roller to bend the perimeter flange to an acute angle relative to the body of the outer panel; and forming the perimeter flange of the outer panel in a final pass with the roller having a first forming surface continuous with a second forming surface wherein the first forming surface engages a distal edge portion of the perimeter flange and applying a force in a first direction, the second forming surface engages an intermediate portion of the perimeter flange between a bight portion and the distal edge portion of the perimeter flange and applying a force at a first angle relative to the first direction to compress the hem radially as the first forming surface presses against the distal edge portion of the flange. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein a third forming surface is provided that is spaced from the first forming surface and is contiguous with the second forming surface and is oriented at a second oblique angle relative to the first forming surface that is less oblique than the first oblique angle. 