A processor for processing articles, such as semiconductor wafers, in a substantially clean atmosphere is set forth. The processor includes an enclosure defining a substantially enclosed clean processing chamber and at least one processing station disposed in the processing chamber. An interface section is disposed adjacent an interface end of the enclosure. The interface section includes at least one interface port through which a pod containing articles for processing are loaded or unloaded to or from the processor. The interface section is hygienically separated from the processing chamber since the interface section is generally not as clean as the highly hygienic processing chamber. An article extraction mechanism adapted to seal with the pod is employed. The mechanism is disposed to allow extraction of the articles contained within the pod into the processing chamber without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions in the interface section. The article processor also preferably includes an article insertion mechanism that is adapted to seal with a pod disposed in the interface section. The article insertion mechanism is disposed to allow insertion of the articles into the pod after processing by the at least one processing station. The article insertion mechanism allows the insertion of the articles without exposing the articles to ambient atmospheric conditions in the interface section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing system for processing wafers provided with a container having a removable container door, comprising: a wall; a container holding position on a first side of the wall, for holding a container; a wafer transfer robot on a second side of the wall; an opening in the wall; a cover adapted to cover the opening in the wall; a container door holder associated with the cover for engaging and holding a container door; a cover actuator assembly, for moving the cover and a container door to and away from the opening in the wall; at least one centrifugal liquid spray process chamber; and one or more robotic conveyors for moving the wafers into and out of the centrifugal liquid spray process chamber. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a docking plate at the container holding position, with the docking plate moveable toward and away from the wall to dock and undock a container. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the transfer robot comprises a comb having equally spaced apart fingers for handling a batch of horizontally oriented wafers. 4. The system of claim 3 where the comb is moveable through the opening in the wall and into and out of the container, to move wafers into and out of the container and into the transfer station. 5. A system for processing the wafers in a clean environment, comprising: an enclosure; a process section and a transfer section within the enclosure; a docking station adjacent to the transfer section, with the docking station including a wall having at least one opening; a cover for covering the opening in the wall; a cover actuator attached to the cover, for moving the cover to and away from the opening in the wall; a wafer transfer device within the enclosure and movable through the opening in the wall, when the cover is removed from the opening, for removing the wafers from the container, with the wafers in a horizontal orientation; at least one centrifugal liquid spray process chamber wherein the wafers are rotated about a vertical axis; and a robot moveable within the enclosure for moving the wafers into and out of the centrifugal liquid spray process chamber. 6. The system of claim 5 further comprising an interface plate attached to the cover, and a key and a container door holder extending outwardly from the interface plate, to engage a container door. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the cover actuator is adapted to move the cover and a container door to a position vertically below the opening. 8. A system for processing semiconductor wafers, comprising: an enclosure; a transfer section and a process section in the enclosure; a docking station separated from the transfer section by a wall having at least one opening, to allow movement of wafers from the docking station into the transfer section; a cover for covering the opening in the wall; at least one door release actuator associated with the cover for releasing and holding a door of a container; a cover actuator linked to the cover, with the cover actuator adapted for moving the cover and a container door from a first position, where the cover is over the opening, to a second position, below the opening; at least one centrifugal liquid spray process chamber within the chamber; and a robotic conveyor for moving the wafers into and out of the centrifugal liquid spray process chamber. 9. The processing system of claim 8 further including an electronic controller for controlling the door release actuator, the cover actuator and the robot. 10. The processing system of claim 9 further including at least one optical sensor for sensing wafers within the container, with the optical sensor connecting to the controller. 11. A processing system for processing wafers provided with a container having a container door, comprising: a wall; a container position on a first side of the wall, for holding a container containing a batch of wafers in a horizontal orientation; an opening in the wall; a cover adapted to cover the opening in the wall; container door holding means for engaging and holding a container door; cover actuator means for moving the cover and a container door to and away from the opening in the wall; at least one centrifugal liquid spray process chamber; and robotic conveyor means for removing the wafers from the container, reorienting the wafers from a horizontal to a vertical position, and for placing the wafers into the centrifugal liquid spray process chamber. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the robotic conveyor means comprises a first robot having a comb moveable into a container, for picking up a batch of horizontal wafers, and a second robot for moving the wafers in a vertical position into the centrifugal liquid spray process chamber. 