A robotic parts handler system for removing containers filled with articles from a sorting, feeding and/or stacking apparatus such as a mail or package sorting apparatus, and moving the container to a selected location for insertion into another conveying system, transport device, carrier, or other apparatus at extremely high speeds.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic parts handling system, comprising: a platform forming a base including at least one linear servo magnetic motor affixed to and extending along the side beneath said platform; a track defining a single rail; a plurality of supporting rollers supporting and holding said platform to said rail; a plurality of magnets mounted along the length of said rail for cooperative magnetic engagement with said at least one linear servo magnetic motor; a plurality of positioning rollers mounted to said platform for maintaining a constant distance between said linear servo magnetic motor and said magnets mounted to said rail; a computer control unit; means in close proximity to said rail for generating pulses readable by a reader in communication with said control unit for positioning said platform at selected positions upon said rail; means for cooperatively engaging and positioning, loading, and unloading an object transported thereby from a preselected position on said platform and transferring, positioning and releasing said object in different selected location. 2. The robotic parts handling system of claim 1, whereby said at least one plurality of magnets mounted along the length of said first rail are permanent magnets for cooperatively engaging said at least one magnetic motor. 3. The robotic parts handling system of claim 1, whereby said at least one magnetic motor is a linear servo magnetic motor. 4. The robotic parts handling system of claim 1, wherein said means in close proximity to said rail for generating pulses further comprises a magnetic strip. 5. The robotic parts handling system of claim 1, wherein said means for cooperatively engaging and positioning, loading, and unloading an object transported thereby from a preselected position on said platform and transferring, positioning and releasing said object in a different selected location is an end effector. 6. A robotic parts handling system, comprising: a platform forming a base including at least one magnetic motor affixed to and extending along the side beneath said platform; a track including at least a first master rail and a second minor balancing rail; a plurality of supporting rollers supporting and holding said platform to said first master rail and said second minor balancing rail; a plurality of magnets mounted along the length of said first rail for cooperative magnetic engagement with said at least one magnetic motor; a plurality of positioning rollers mounted to said platform for maintaining a constant distance between said magnetic motor and said magnets mounted to said first master rail; a computer control unit; means in close proximity to said rail for generating pulses readable by a reader in communication with said control unit for positioning said platform at selected positions upon said rail; a frame mounted upon said platform; at least one end effector mounted onto said frame including means for engaging and removing a container from a first position and transferring said container to a second position and releasing said container. 7. The robotic parts handling system of claim 6, wherein said positioning rollers comprise non-magnetic material. 8. The robotic parts handling system of claim 7, wherein said non-magnetic material is selected from the group consisting of aluminum, stainless steel, graphite, polymer, ceramic and combinations thereof. 9. The robotic parts handling system of claim 6, wherein said supporting rollers are free wheeling rubber rollers. 10. The robotic parts handling system of claim 6, including at least one brake mounting to said platform, said brake including at least one brake shoe held in the "on" position by springs to bear against said rail, said at least one brake shoe being spaced apart from said rail and held in the release "open" position by air pressure so that failure of the air pressure permits said at least one brake shoe to contact said rail stopping the motion of said platform. 11. The robotic parts handling system of claim 6, said at least one end effector including a conveyor belt assembly with at least one conveyor belt. 12. The robotic parts handling system of claim 11, wherein said conveyor belt assembly includes a belt having protrusions extending therefrom for supporting a container thereon, said container including cavities extending from a bottom surface for cooperatively engaging said protrusions. 13. The robotic parts handling system of claim 6, wherein said means in close proximity to said rail for generating pulses is a magnetic tape indicator strip extending along said rail including magnetized graduations. 14. A robotic parts handling system, comprising: a platform forming a base including at least one magnetic motor thereon; a track defining at least one rail; a plurality of supporting rollers supporting and holding said platform to said rail; at least one magnet mounted on a supporting structure apart from and magnetically engageable with said at least one magnetic motor; a plurality of positioning rollers mounted to said platform for maintaining a constant distance between said at least one magnetic motor and said at least one magnet; a computer control unit; means in close proximity to said rail for generating pulses readable by a reader in communication with said control unit for positioning said platform at selected positions upon said rail; means for cooperatively engaging and positioning, loading, and unloading an object transported thereby from a preselected position on said platform and transferring, positioning and releasing said object in a different selected location. 15. The robotic parts handling system of claim 14, wherein said means for cooperatively engaging and positioning, loading, and unloading an object transported thereby from a preselected position on said platform and transferring, positioning and releasing said object in a different selected location is an end effector. 16. The robotic parts handling system of claim 15, said at least one end effector including a conveyor belt assembly with at least one conveyor belt. 17. The robotic parts handling system of claim 14, wherein said positioning rollers comprise non-magnetic material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, stainless steel, graphite, polymer, ceramic and combinations thereof. 18. The robotic parts handling system of claim 14, wherein said supporting rollers are free wheeling rubber rollers. 19. The robotic parts handling system of claim 14, whereby said at least one magnet mounted on a supporting structure apart from and magnetically engageable with said at least one magnetic motor is a permanent magnet mounted at a selected position along said rail for cooperatively engaging said at least one magnetic motor. 20. The robotic parts handling system of claim 14, whereby said at least one magnetic motor is a linear servo magnetic motor. 21. The robotic parts handling system of claim 14, including at least one brake mounting to said platform, said brake including at least one brake shoe held in the "on" position by springs to bear against said rail, said at least one brake shoe being spaced apart from said rail and held in the release `open` position by air pressure so that failure of the air pressure permits said at least one brake shoe to contact said rail stopping the motion of said platform. 22. The robotic parts handling system of claim 14, wherein said means in close proximity to said rail for generating pulses further comprises a magnetic strip. 