A method and system (10) for selectively removing one component of a material thereby concentrating other components of the material are disclosed. The material is cooled to below the melting temperature of the material to form a supercooled liquid phase with heat transfer plate with cooling channels (20). Ultrasonic energy from ultrasonic drivers (42) is applied to the material to form solid phase crystals of the component to be removed. These crystals are removed to leave the concentrated products. The ultrasonic energy prevents the growth of dendrites on the crystals, resulting in the formation and removal of small crystals of the component to be removed without damage to or removal of the remaining components. Methods and apparatuses for cryoprecipilation and chromatography are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of concentrating a material comprising at least a first component and a second component, to form a product having an increased concentration of one of said first and second components, said method comprising: (a) removing salts from said material; (b) cooling at least a portion of said material to a temperature at or below the melting point of said material, said portion containing said first component in liquid phase; (c) applying ultrasonic energy to at least said cooled portion of said material to form a solid phase comprising said first component; and (d) collecting said solid phase, wherein said material comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of blood plasma, a blood plasma concentrate, and mixtures thereof. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said steps of cooling and applying ultrasonic energy comprise passing said material adjacent a first sonified cooling plate. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said steps of cooling and applying ultrasonic energy comprise passing said material between first and second cooling plates, at least said first cooling plate comprising a sonified cooling plate. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said first and second cooling plates each comprise sonified cooling plates. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said cooling step comprises cooling at least a portion of said material to below 0.degree. C. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising depositing said material into a thin walled flexible container, and wherein said steps of cooling and applying ultrasonic energy are carried out across a wall portion of said flexible container. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of collecting said solid phase comprises centrifuging the material containing said solid phase. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of removing salts from said material comprises effecting a transfer of salts across a dialysis membrane. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring the concentration of at least one component in said product. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said step of monitoring the concentration comprises sensing the resistivity of said product. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein said step of monitoring the concentration comprises sensing the viscosity or optical properties of said product. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising testing for the presence of one or more contaminants in said product. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said material comprises blood plasma. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said material comprises a blood plasma concentrate. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -1.degree. C. 16. The method of claim 2, wherein said material is initially cooled to a temperature of -1.degree. C. and then further cooled to a lower temperature. 17. The method of claim 2, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -5.degree. C. 18. The method of claim 2, wherein said material comprises blood plasma. 19. The method of claim 2, wherein said material comprises a blood plasma concentrate. 20. The method of claim 2, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -1.degree. C. 21. The method of claim 2, wherein said material is initially cooled to a temperature of -1.degree. C. and then further cooled to a lower temperature. 22. The method of claim 2, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -5.degree. C. 23. The method of claim 3, wherein said material comprises blood plasma. 24. The method of claim 3, wherein said material comprises a blood plasma concentrate. 25. The method of claim 3, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -1.degree. C. 26. The method of claim 3, wherein said material is initially cooled to a temperature of -1.degree. C. and then further cooled to a lower temperature. 27. The method of claim 3, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -5.degree. C. 28. The method of claim 4, wherein said material comprises blood plasma. 29. The method of claim 4, wherein said material comprises a blood plasma concentrate. 30. The method of claim 4, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -1.degree. C. 31. The method of claim 4, wherein said material is initially cooled to a temperature of -1.degree. C. and then further cooled to a lower temperature. 32. The method of claim 4, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -5.degree. C. 33. The method of claim 8, wherein said material comprises blood plasma. 34. The method of claim 8, wherein said material comprises a blood plasma concentrate. 35. The method of claim 8, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -1.degree. C. 36. The method of claim 8, wherein said material is initially cooled to a temperature of -1.degree. C. and then further cooled to a lower temperature. 37. The method of claim 8, wherein said material is cooled to a temperature of -0.5.degree. C. to -5.degree. C. 