The present invention provides an improved system and method for performing a desired operation at a remote location in a wellbore. The system is composed of a downhole docking station assembly and a detachable downhole tool assembly. The downhole tool assembly includes electrically operated means to move in the wellbore and an end work device to perform the desired work. The downhole tool can also include an imaging device to provide pictures of the downhole environment and various sensors. Data from the downhole tool is communicated to a surface computer, which controls the operation of the tool and displays pictures of the tool environment. The downhole tool detaches itself from the docking station, travels to the desired location in the wellbore and performs a predefined operation according to programmed instruction. The downhole tool returns and connects to the docking station, where it transfers data relating to the operation and can be recharged for further operation. Various attachments for the downhole tool assembly can be stored and selectively retrieved for downhole locations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a task in a subterranean location in a well tubing having a main bore, the method comprising the steps of: a. installing a docking station at a downhole location in communication with the interior of the well tubing, b. locating a tractor at the docking station, the tractor comprising means to move axially within the well tubing and means to perform a task, the main bore substantially free from obstruction by the tractor while the tractor is located at the docking station, c. operating the moving means on the tractor to position the tractor assembly at a location in the well tubing where the task is to be performed, d. operating the task performing means on the tractor to perform the task, and e. thereafter, operating the moving means on the tractor to locate the tractor at the docking station. 2. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the steps of repeating steps c through e without removing the tractor from the subterranean portion of the well. 3. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the step of supplying electrical power to the tractor from the docking station. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of supplying electrical power to the tractor comprises transmitting electrical power through a conductor connected between the docking station and the tractor. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of supplying electrical power to the tractor comprises transmitting electrical power through a conductor connected between the docking station and the well surface. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of supplying electrical power to the tractor comprises releasably connecting a connector on the docking station to a connector on the tractor and transmitting electrical power through the connector to an electrical power storage device on the tractor. 7. A method as in claim 1 further comprising the step of tethering the tractor to the docking station. 8. A method as in claim 1 wherein the main bore is completely free from obstruction by the tractor while the tractor is located at the docking station. 9. Method of performing tasks at downhole locations in a well having a bore for fluid flow, without accessing the well from the surface, comprising the steps of: storing a tool for performing the tasks at a downhole storage location substantially removed from the bore; moving the tool from the storage location to a second downhole location in the well; performing a task at the second location; and thereafter, returning the tool to the storage location without returning the tool to the surface. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the tool comprises a tractor means and means operable by the tractor for performing a task. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein means for docking the tool is provided at the storage location and wherein the docking means comprises means for providing power to operate the tool. 12. A method as in claim 9 further comprising the step of tethering the tool to the storage location. 13. A sub-service safety valve and service assembly for a well for controlling the flow of fluids through a tubular assembly having an axial bore, the tubular assembly extending from a downhole location to the well surface, comprising: a normally closed safety valve for controlling the flow through the valve when the valve is connected to the tubular assembly, the valve comprising a valve member moveable in and out of a normally closed position wherein flow through the valve is prevented, a valve actuator for moving the valve to the closed position; and a tractor docked at a downhole location substantially removed from the axial bore of the tubular assembly, the tractor comprising means on the tractor for moving into and out of engagement with the valve member to move the valve member out of the closed position. 14. The subsurface safety valve of claim 13 wherein the valve actuator comprises a flow tube moveable into and out of contact with the valve member to hold the valve member away from the closed position, means urging the flow tube out of contact with the valve member to allow the valve member to move to the closed position, and a latch for releasably retaining the flow tube in contact with the valve member holding the valve member away from the closed position. 15. The subsurface safety valve of claim 14 wherein the latch is electrically operable from the well surface whereby the valve can be closed from the well surface. 16. The subsurface safety valve of claim 13 wherein the tractor is docked at a docking station and wherein the docking station comprises a means for supplying power to the tractor. 17. The subsurface safety valve of claim 16 wherein the docking station is a side pocket mandrel. 18. The subsurface safety valve of claim 16 wherein the docking station is operably associated with the tractor. 19. The subsurface safety valve of claim 18 wherein wireless receivers and transmitters operably associate the tractor and the docking station. 20. The subsurface safety valve of claim 18 wherein at least one electrical conductor operably associates the tractor and docking station. 21. The subsurface safety valve of claim 18 wherein mating electrical connectors are located on the docking station and the tractor and the tractor and docking station are operably associated by releasably connecting the electrical connector on the tractor to the electrical connector on the docking station. 22. The subsurface safety valve of claim 16 wherein the means for supplying power to the tractor comprises at least one electrical conductor connected between the tractor and docking station. 23. The safety valve of claim 16 wherein the means for supplying power to the tractor comprises mating releasable connectors located on the docking station and tractor. 24. The safety valve of claim 13 wherein the safety valve is a retrievable safety valve connected inside the tubular assembly. 25. A well having a tubular assembly extending from the well surface to a downhole location the tubular assembly having a primary bore, the well comprising: a tractor located at a downhole location in the tubular assembly, means on the tractor for moving the tractor in and out of one or more downhole locations in the tubular assembly; and a docking station at a downhole location in the tubular assembly, the docking station being operably associated with the tractor, means on the docking station for supplying power to the tractor, the docking station capable of storing the tractor substantially out of the primary bore. 26. The well of claim 25 wherein the docking station is a side pocket mandrel. 27. The well of claim 25 wherein wireless receivers and transmitters operably associate the tractor and the docking station. 28. The well of claim 25 wherein at least one electrical conductor operably associates the tractor and docking station. 29. The well of claim 25 wherein mating electrical connectors are located on the docking station and the tractor and the tractor and docking station are operably associated by releasably connecting the electrical connector on the tractor to the electrical connector on the docking station. 30. The well of claim 25 wherein the means for supplying power to the tractor comprises at least one electrical conductor connected between the tractor and docking station. 31. The well of claim 25 wherein the means for supplying power to the tractor comprises mating releasable electrical connectors located on the docking station and tractor. 