A medical system that allows a medical device to be controlled by one of two input devices. The input devices may be consoles that contain handles and a screen. The medical devices may include robotic arms and instruments used to perform a medical procedure. The system may include an arbitrator that determines which console has priority to control one or more of the robotic arms/instruments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system, comprising: a first input device receiving an input command from a surgeon; a computer coupled to said first input device, said computer transmitting a packet of information corresponding to the input command, said packet including a priority data and a data field that contains robotic data; a second input device; a first robotic manipulator assembly including a first surgical end effector; and a network coupling the computer and the second input device to the first robotic manipulator so as to transmit the packet, the first input device having control of the surgical end effector in response to the priority data so that the first robotic manipulator moves per the robotic data and does not move in response to the second input device. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein said data field includes RS232 data, said network being asynchronous. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein said input device includes a handle, the packet comprising absolute position information for a movement of the handle. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a screen coupled to said computer. 5. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein said network is asynchronous. 6. The robotic surgical system of claim 5, wherein the first robotic manipulator moves the first surgical end effector by disregarding robotic position information of a late packet received from the network after a subsequently sent packet from the computer. 7. The robotic surgical system of claim 6, wherein a re-transmission is requested if manipulator function information is received for the first robotic manipulator from the network out of sequential order. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 5, further comprising a second robotic manipulator assembly including a second surgical end effector, wherein a plurality of command packets are transmitted by the network from the input devices to the manipulators and a plurality of feedback packets are transmitted from the manipulators to the input devices, wherein each packet includes a source ID field with source data identifying an associated source manipulator or input device and a destination ID field with destination data identifying an associated destination manipulator or input device, and wherein the packets are routed from the network according to the identifying data. 9. The robotic surgical system of claim 8, further comprising an endoscope capturing an image of the surgical end effectors and a display showing the captured image, wherein video data is multiplexed onto the network with the packets between the endoscope and the display. 10. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a priority override switch operatively associated with the second input device to allow a surgeon to assume control of procedure. 11. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the computer multiplexes said robotic data and manipulator function data onto a communication link of the network. 12. The robotic surgical system of claim 11, wherein said manipulator function data comprises instrument scaling. 13. The robotic surgical system of claim 12, wherein said manipulator function data comprises actuation data. 14. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein said packet comprises robotic data and RS232 data transmitted using separate protocols. 15. A robotic surgical system, comprising: input means for receiving commands to control a medical instrument; manipulation means for moving said medical instrument in response to said input means; and transmission means for transmitting a packet of information, said packet including a priority field and a data field that contains robotic data which correspond to said commands, wherein the manipulation means effects movement of said medical instrument in response to the input means when priority data within the priority field signifies that the input means has control of the medical instrument, and wherein the manipulation means does not effect movement of said medical instrument in response to the input means when the priority data signifies that the input means does not have control of the medical instrument. 16. The robotic surgical system of claim 15, wherein said data field includes RS232 data. 17. The robotic surgical system of claim 15, wherein said input device includes a handle, the packet comprising absolute position information for a movement of the handle. 18. The robotic surgical system of claim 15, further comprising a screen coupled to said transmission means. 