An optical component measurement system including a holding fixture adapted to hold a plurality of optical components in an array; and an optical detector movably connected to the holding fixture. The detector is movable between a front side of the holding fixture and an opposite rear side of the holding fixture for taking measurements from more than one side of the optical components in the array.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical component measurement system comprising: a holding fixture adapted to hold a plurality of optical components in an array; and an optical detector movably connected to the holding fixture, wherein the detector is movable between a front side of the holding fixture and an opposite rear side of the holding fixture for taking measurements from more than one side of the optical components in the array. 2. An optical component measurement system as in claim 1 further comprising a base section adapted to have the holding fixture connected thereto. 3. An optical component measurement system as in claim 2 wherein the base section comprises a mover for moving the holding fixture on the base section. 4. An optical component measurement system as in claim 3 wherein the mover is adapted to move the holding fixture in a first path of translation and adapted to rotate the holding fixture. 5. An optical component measurement system as in claim 4 wherein the mover is adapted to rotate the holding fixture along at least two axes of rotation. 6. An optical component measurement system as in claim 2 wherein the optical detector is rotatably connected to the base section. 7. An optical component measurement system as in claim 6 further comprising a vertical mover connected between the optical detector and the base section for vertically moving the optical detector relative to the holding fixture. 8. An optical component measurement system as in claim 2 further comprising an optical energy source emitter movably connected to the base section. 9. An optical component measurement system as in claim 8 wherein the optical energy source emitter is rotatably connected to the base section. 10. An optical component measurement system as in claim 9 further comprising a vertical mover for vertically moving the energy source emitter relative to the holding fixture. 11. An optical component measurement system as in claim 8 wherein the optical energy source emitter comprises a fiber collimator mounted into a mounting arm. 12. An optical component measurement system as in claim 1 wherein the holding fixture comprises: a frame comprising receiving areas sized and shaped to receive portions of optical components in the array; and crisscrossing flexible line shaped spacers located on the frame, the flexible line shaped spacers being adapted to be located between adjacent optical components located in the receiving areas to space the adjacent optical components from each other. 13. A method of measuring an optical filter comprising steps of: mounting the optical filter in a holding fixture, the holding fixture being adapted to hold an array of optical filters; connecting the holding fixture to a measuring device between an optical emitter and an optical detector or measuring device; measuring optical transmission through the optical filter; and moving the optical detector to an opposite side of the holding fixture to measure reflection of the optical filter. 14. A method as in claim 13 wherein the step of mounting the optical filter in a holding fixture comprises positioning a first portion of the optical filter in a hole of a frame, the hole being coupled to a vacuum chamber area. 15. A method as in claim 14 wherein the step of mounting the optical filter in a holding fixture comprises positioning a second portion of the optical filter adjacent flexible line shaped spacers located above the hole. 16. A method as in claim 13 further comprising vertical moving the optical detector relative to the holding fixture. 