Real-time optimization is conducted for a control device having a fuzzy inference system that can optimize characteristics of the control device in real time, by coding parameters used in the fuzzy inference system into chromosomes, and optimizing in real time the output of the control device by subjecting the chromosomes to evolutionary computation. Coding is conducted by (i) revising a matrix of fuzzy rules used in the system by extracting a section from the matrix and coding elements of the section into chromosomes; (ii) modifying the configuration of the fuzzy rule matrix defined by membership functions by coding elements of the membership functions into chromosomes; or (iii) changing a level of an input of the parameters and a level of an output of the fuzzy inference system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of real-time optimization of a control device provided with a fuzzy inference system for controlling a machine, said fuzzy inference system comprising a matrix of fuzzy rules which are regulated by preselected parameters, said method comprising the steps of: operating the machine using the fuzzy inference system of the control device; optimizing in real-time the input-output relationship of the fuzzy inference system by: (i) selecting a section from the fuzzy rule matrix including multiple sections, and (ii) revising the fuzzy rule matrix by extracting the section from the matrix and coding elements of the section into chromosomes, said chromosomes being subjected to evolutionary computation, wherein at least one fitted individual is selected based on a user's ultimate choice or a pre-selected target; and operating the machine using the optimized fuzzy inference system. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising monitoring the fuzzy rule matrix in use while operating the machine, and evaluating the section extracted in (ii) by the user using an interface displayed to the user. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of a section is conducted deterministically or stochastically according to a total of fitness of membership functions defining the fuzzy rule matrix within a given period of time. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of a section is conducted deterministically or stochastically according to a total of fitness of fuzzy rules within a given period of time. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising evaluating fitness of fuzzy rules, wherein in the selecting step, a section whose fitness is over a threshold is selected for encoding. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the control device comprises two system, wherein in one system, the at least one fitted individual is selected by the user, and in another system, the at least one fitted individual is selected autonomously based on a pre-selected target. 7. A method of real-time optimization of a control device comprising a fuzzy inference system for controlling a machine, comprising: encoding parameters used in the fuzzy inference system into chromosomes, said fuzzy inference system determining an output associated with a manipulated variable of the machine based on preselected input signals, wherein the parameters encoded into chromosomes include at least one of number, shape, position, and expanse of membership functions; and optimizing the output of the control device by subjecting the chromosomes to evolutionary computation on a real-time basis. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the parameters encoded into chromosomes include fuzzy rules. 9. A method of real-time optimization of a control device comprising a fuzzy inference system for controlling a machine, comprising: encoding standardized coefficients for input and output values of the fuzzy inference system into chromosomes, said fuzzy inference system determining an output associated with a manipulated variable of the machine based on preselected input signals; and optimizing the output of the control device by subjecting the chromosomes to evolutionary computation on a real-time basis. 10. A method of real-time optimization of a control device comprising a fuzzy inference system for controlling a machine, comprising: selecting a part of parameters used in the fuzzy inference system deterministically or stochastically according to a total of fitness of membership functions defining the fuzzy inference system within a given period of time, said fuzzy inference system determining an output associated with a manipulated variable of the machine based on preselected input signals, said fitness of membership functions being evaluated at a non-evolutionary mode; encoding the part of parameters into chromosomes at an evolutionary mode; and optimizing the output of the control device by subjecting the chromosomes to evolutionary computation on a real-time basis at the evolutionary mode. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the parameters encoded into chromosomes further include standardized coefficients for input and output values of the fuzzy inference system. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein only parameters are selected that exceed a threshold of fitness determined according to the parameters. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the threshold is raised or lowered according to selected number of times for corresponding parameters. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the threshold is raised or lowered according to time elapsed since a previous selection of corresponding parameters. 15. A method of real-time optimization of a control device comprising a fuzzy inference system for controlling a machine, comprising: selecting a part of parameters used in the fuzzy inference system deterministically or stochastically according to a total of fitness of fuzzy rules within given period of time, said fuzzy inference system determining an output associated with a manipulated variable of the machine based on preselected input signals, said fitness of fuzzy rules being evaluated at a non-evolutionary mode; encoding the part of parameters into chromosomes at an evolutionary mode; and optimizing the output of the control device by subjecting the chromosomes to evolutionary computation on a real-time basis at the evolutionary mode. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the parameters encoded into chromosomes further include standardized coefficients for input and output values of the fuzzy inference system. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein only parameters are selected that exceed a threshold of fitness determined according to the parameters. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the threshold is raised or lowered according to selected number of times for corresponding parameters. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the threshold is raised or lowered according to time elapsed since a previous selection of corresponding parameters. 