A device for producing microscopic arrays of molecules is provided, the device comprising a plurality of inverted cavities containing solutions, a substrate adapted to be received by the cavities for extracting the solutions, a substrate for depositing the extracted solutions onto a location on a matrix; and a quality control monitoring system for verifying that the solutions are deposited onto the location on the matrix. A process for producing an array of molecules also is provided, the process comprising providing a plurality of inverted solution cavities, wherein each cavity contains a solution; extracting each solution from its respective inverted cavity; loading each solution at a predetermined position in an array; and verifying that each solution is loaded onto its respective position in the array.
Claims The embodiment of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed is defined as follows: 1. A device for producing microscopic arrays of molecules, the device comprising: a) a plurality of inverted cavities containing solutions; b) an upwardly extending pin slidably received by each of said inverted cavities for extracting solutions from the inverted cavities; c) a means for depositing the extracted solutions onto a location on a matrix; and d) a means for verifying that the solutions are deposited onto the location on the matrix. 2. The device as recited in claim 1 further comprising a means for maintaining the solution at a temperature during extraction and deposition. 3. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the verifying means comprises comparing an image of an unloaded location to the location containing deposited solution. 4. The device as recited in claim 3 wherein the image is digitized. 5. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the verifying means compares an image of an unloaded location to the loaded location during loading. 6. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the location faces downwardly. 7. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the verifying means further comprises a means for measuring a temperature difference in the extracting/depositing means during deposition. 8. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the verifying means further comprises a means for comparing the electrical conductance of the location containing deposited solution with the location not containing deposited solution. 9. A process for producing a microscopic array of molecules, the process comprising: a) providing a plurality of inverted solution cavities, wherein each cavity contains a solution containing a different molecule; b) using an upwardly extending pin to extract each solution from its inverted cavity, wherein the pins are slidably received by the cavities; c) loading each extracted solution at a predetermined position in an array; and d) verifying that each molecule is loaded onto its respective position in the array. 10. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the step of providing a plurality of cavities further comprises maintaining the molecules at a selected temperature. 11. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the step of extracting the solution further comprises contacting the solution with a transfer vehicle which is maintained at a selected temperature. 12. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the cavities each face downwardly. 13. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the step of verifying further comprises: a) supplying an index of images showing various levels of loading of the solution at the position; b) observing the level of deposition of the solution at the position; and c) comparing the observed level with the index to determine the extent of loading of the deposited solution. 14. The process as recited in claim 13 wherein the step of supplying an index further comprises comparing the difference between an indexed image of an empty position to an indexed image of a loaded position. 15. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein extraction occurs through the use of a robotic mechanism. 16. The process as recited in claim 15 wherein the step of extracting and loading each molecule further comprises: a) choosing the particular position from a position location grid; and b) choosing a concentration of molecule to be loaded to the position from a concentration grid, wherein the location grid and the concentration grid are input nodes for software which controls the robotics. 17. The process as recited in claim 16 wherein the grids are physically remote from the cavities. 18. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the solution is extracted in the direction of gravity. 19. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the position of the plurality of inverted solution cavities faces downwardly. 20. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the verifying is done visually. 21. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the verifying is based on temperature differential. 22. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the verifying is made via a differential of impedance of the position. 23. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the pin is a plurality of pins. 24. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the upwardly extending pin is a plurality of upwardly extending pins. 25. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the pin has hydrophobic vertical sides and a hydrophilic tip. 26. The device as recited in claim 1 wherein the pin is solid. 27. The device as recited in claim 25 wherein the transported solution is relegated to the tip of the pin. 28. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the pin has hydrophobic vertical sides and a hydrophilic tip. 29. The process as recited in claim 9 wherein the pin is solid. 30. The process as recited in claim 28 wherein the transported solution is relegated to the tip of the pin. 