A cable management system and method for winding on or letting out a length of cable from a cable support apparatus, in a generally curved, figure eight path, to prevent continuous twisting of a fixed length of cable coupled between the cable support apparatus and a fixed device. A control system is used to move the cable support apparatus in the figure eight path. The cable support apparatus includes a pair of spools which are arranged at a generally 45.degree. angle to one another. Cable is alternately wound onto or wound from the two spools as the apparatus is moved in the figure eight path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cable management apparatus comprising: a cable take-up apparatus for holding a length of cable thereon, said take-up apparatus including: a first spool section; a second spool section disposed adjacent to said first spool section and being arranged non-parallel to said first spool section; a member extending non-parallel to said first and second spools and having a first length of said cable extending from said take-up apparatus adapted to be secured to a structure remote from said take-up apparatus; said first and second spool sections cooperatively supporting a second length of said cable to be one of wound therefrom during a cable let out process and wound thereon during a cable take up process; and a mechanism associated with said spool sections for moving said spool sections in a figure eight path in space such that said first spool section and second spool section are alternately rotated for approximately 360 degrees of movement each, thereby enabling said second length of cable to be alternately wound off of or onto each said spool section, one revolution at a time from each said spool section, without causing continuous twisting of said first length of cable in one direction as said second length of said cable is wound or unwound from said spool sections. 2. The cable management apparatus of claim 1, wherein said mechanism comprises a robot for manipulating said member. 3. The cable management apparatus of claim 1, wherein said mechanism comprises a partial sphere having a moving element which moves in said figure eight path, said moving element being operably coupled to said member to thereby move said member in said figure eight path in said space. 4. The cable management apparatus of claim 1, wherein said member is coupled to said cable take-up apparatus in between said spool sections. 5. The cable management apparatus of claim 1, wherein said spool sections are arranged at approximately a 45 degree angle to one another. 6. A cable management apparatus comprising: a cable take-up apparatus for holding a length of cable thereon, said cable take-up apparatus including: a first spool movable about a first axis of rotation; a second spool movable about a second axis of rotation and being disposed adjacent to said first spool and being non-parallel to said first spool; a first length of said cable extending from said take-up apparatus and adapted to be secured to a structure remote from said take-up apparatus; said first and second spools cooperatively supporting a second length of said cable thereon; and a mechanism operably associated with said spools for moving said spools in a figure eight path in space such that said first spool and second spool are alternately moved about their respective axes of rotation after each 360 degrees of rotation of each said spool, and further such that said axes of rotation are arranged parallel to one another as said spools are alternately moved in said space, thereby enabling said second length of cable to be alternately wound onto or off of each said spool, one revolution at a time from each said spool, without causing continuous twisting of said first length of cable in one direction as said second length of said cable is wound or unwound from said spools. 7. The cable management apparatus of claim 6, wherein said mechanism comprises: a member fixedly secured to said spools and extending non-parallel to said spools; and a robot for moving said member in said figure eight path in said space. 8. The cable management apparatus of claim 6, wherein said mechanism comprises: a member fixedly secured to said spools and extending non-parallel to said spools; a semi-spherical support structure having a figure eight travel path defined therein; and a movable element supported by said semi-spherical support structure for movement along said figure eight travel path thereon, said movable element being coupled to said member to thereby move said spools in said figure eight path in said space. 9. The cable management system of claim 6, wherein a central axis of each of said spools is arranged at an approximate 45 degree angle to the other one of said spools. 10. The cable management system of claim 7, wherein said member is coupled to said spools at a point in between said spools so as to extend non-parallel to each of said spools. 11. A method of performing at least one of a winding process and an unwinding process of a cable associated with a cable support structure, said method comprising: providing a first length of said cable which is fixedly secured at one end to a structure remote from said cable support structure, and at a second end to said cable support structure; forming first and second independent spool sections on said cable support structure for cooperatively supporting a second length of said cable; disposing said independent spool sections at a non-parallel orientation relative to each other; moving said cable support structure such that said first spool section is moved in free space for approximately one 360 degree revolution about a first axis of rotation to thereby let out, or wind thereon, a first subportion of said second cable; reorienting said cable support structure such that said second spool section is able to be moved in said free space about a second axis of rotation generally parallel to said first axis of rotation; moving said second spool section in said free space about said second axis of rotation for approximately one 360 degree revolution, to thereby let out, or wind thereon, a second subportion of said second cable; and alternately reorienting said spool sections such that successive subportions of said second cable are alternately wound on said spool sections, said alternate reorienting of said spool sections further operating to prevent continuous twisting of said first length of said cable in one direction as said spool sections are alternately rotated about their respective said axes of rotation. 