A substrate positioning system is provided to facilitate the performing of certain processing on the substrate, such as ion implantation. The system comprises a linkage rotatably mounted to a base and an end effector member rotatably mounted to the linkage and configured for receiving a substrate. Through the synchronized rotation of the linkage about the base and the end effector member about the linkage, the system acts as a robotic unit to move the substrate to the desired location for performing processing thereon. In another aspect, the base is movable along an axis such that the system maintains a constant distance of travel for an ion beam incident on the substrate as the linkage and end effector member travel in a curved path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate positioning system, comprising: a linkage rotatably mounted on a first rotary axis to a base, the base extending to a fixed height above an x-y reference plane; an end effector member rotatably mounted on a second rotary axis to a mounting portion of the linkage, the end effector member configured for supporting a substrate thereto; and means for rotating the linkage about the first rotary axis; wherein the rotation of the linkage about the first axis causes movement of the mounting portion of the linkage and substantially positions the end effector member and substrate at a specific y-axis and z-axis location to facilitate ion implantation by scanning the substrate with an ion beam traveling generally in a y-axis plane. 2. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein a means for performing processing on the substrate is positioned at a fixed location relative to the x-y reference plane. 3. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the rotating means is mechanically connected to the linkage. 4. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the end effector member is positioned as to maintain a constant angle between a surface of the substrate and the z-axis. 5. The positioning system of claim 4, wherein the first rotary axis is configured to rotate in a direction opposite of the second rotary axis as to maintain a constant angle between a surface of the substrate and the z-axis. 6. The positioning system of claim 5, wherein the first rotary axis is configured to rotate with the same angular magnitude as the second rotary axis. 7. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the linkage has a proximal end and a distal end, the linkage being mounted to the base at the proximal end and the end effector member being mounted to the distal end. 8. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the means for rotating the linkage is further mechanically connected to the end effector member to rotate the end effector member about the second rotary axis and thereby position the end effector member and the substrate at a specific y-axis and z-axis location for performing processing on the substrate. 9. The positioning system of claim 8, wherein the means for rotating the linkage is configured to maintain a constant angle between a surface of the substrate and the z-axis. 10. The positioning system of claim 1, further comprising a second means mechanically connected to the end effector member to rotate the member about the second rotary axis to position the member and the substrate at a specific y-axis and z- axis location for performing processing on the substrate. 11. The positioning system of claim 10, wherein the second means for rotating the end effector member is configured to maintain a constant angle between a surface of the substrate and the z-axis. 12. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the means for rotating the linkage comprises a motor. 13. The positioning system of claim 1, wherein the substrate is a semiconducting wafer. 14. The positioning system of claim 1, further comprising a means for linearly moving the base in a y-axis direction to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam from an ion beam transport system end to an impact point of the beam with the substrate while the linkage is being rotated to position the substrate at a specific z-axis location. 15. The positioning system of claim 14, wherein the end effector member is positioned as to maintain a constant implant angle for the ion beam with a surface of the substrate, and the movement of the base to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam is determined by the equation or the relation substantially equivalent thereto: 16. An ion implantation apparatus, comprising: a chamber into which an ion beam is entered, the ion beam being configured for scanning over the width of a substrate along an x-axis, the ion beam being configured to travel generally in a y-axis the substrate being positioned in the chamber; a substrate holder comprising a linkage and an end effector member, the linkage having a proximal end with a first rotary axis and a distal end with a second rotary axis, the first rotary axis attached to a base and the second rotary axis attached to the end effector member, the substrate holder positioning the substrate in the chamber; a drive unit mechanically connected to the linkage to move the substrate through the ion beam substantially in a direction along a z-axis perpendicular to the direction of the ion beam scan; and a means for linearly moving the base in a y-axis direction to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam from an ion beam transport system end to an impact point of the beam with the substrate while the substrate holder is being rotated to move the substrate through the ion beam more precisely in a direction along the z-axis; wherein the end effector member is configured to rotate about the second rotary axis as the linkage rotates about the first rotary axis to maintain a substantially constant implant angle of the substrate relative to the ion beam. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein variations of the dose of the ion beam reaching the substrate, caused by the changing distance the ion beam has to travel along the y-axis to reach the substrate due to the rotation of the end effector member, are avoided by calculating a correction factor and adjusting at least one of the ion beam current, the duty cycle of the ion beam scan, and the mechanical scan velocity to produce a constant dose of the ion beam. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first and second rotary axes are parallel to the x-axis. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first rotary axis is configured to rotate in a direction opposite of the second rotary axis as to maintain the substantially constant implant angle. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the first rotary axis is configured to rotate with the same angular magnitude as the second rotary axis. 21. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the drive unit is further mechanically connected to the end effector member to aid in moving the substrate though the ion beam substantially in a direction along a z-axis perpendicular to the direction of the ion beam scan. 22. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising an end effector drive unit mechanically connected to the end effector member to move the substrate through the ion beam substantially in a direction along a z-axis perpendicular to the direction of the ion beam scan. 23. The apparatus system of claim 16, wherein the substrate is a semiconducting wafer. 24. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the substrate is affixed to the end effector member, and the movement of the base to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam is determined by the equation or the relation substantially equivalent thereto: 25. A method for ion implantation on a substrate, comprising the steps of: positioning a substrate on a substrate holder, the holder comprising a linkage and an end effector member, the linkage having a proximal end with a first rotary axis and a distal end with a second rotary axis, the first rotary axis attached to a base and the second rotary axis attached to the end effector member, the holder being disposed within a chamber into which an ion beam is entered, the ion beam being configured for scanning over the width of the substrate along an x-axis; translating the substrate through the ion beam substantially in a direction along a z-axis perpendicular to the direction of the ion beam scan by simultaneously rotating the linkage at the first rotary axis about the base and rotating the end effector member at the second rotary axis about the linkage so as to maintain a substantially constant implant angle of the substrate relative to the ion beam; and moving the base linearly in a y-axis direction to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam from an ion beam transport system end to an impact point of the beam with the substrate while the substrate holder is being rotated to move the substrate through the ion beam more precisely in a direction along the z-axis. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the movement of the base to maintain a constant travel distance for the ion beam is determined by the equation or the relation substantially equivalent thereto: 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the substrate is a semiconducting wafer. 