In an automated processing system, a system controller uses a meta-heuristic technique for identifying an optimal or near-optimal control schedule for controlling movements and operations of a robot. In particular embodiments, the system controller uses a genetic algorithm to breed a control schedule for the robot. In particular embodiments, the system controller dynamically updates the control schedule based on system operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calculating a control schedule for a robot within a fabrication system, the method comprising: determining operating characteristics for steps in a fabrication process, the operating characteristics comprising: a robot movement matrix for movements between a plurality of processing stations, wherein the robot movement matrix indicates movement time for a robot between the processing stations based on whether or not the robot is currently loaded with a wafer; processing times for each of the processing stations; and for each of the processing stations, a time for the robot to load a wafer at the processing station and a time for the robot to unload a wafer at the processing station; identifying a plurality of control schedules each detailing a process for the robot to shuttle wafers between the processing stations; determining fitness for each of the control schedules using the operating characteristics; applying a genetic algorithm to select a chosen control schedule based on fitness for each of the control schedules; and operating the robot according to the chosen control schedule. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring actual operating characteristics of the robot and of the processing stations; re-performing the genetic algorithm to identify an updated chosen control schedule; and operating the robot according to the updated chosen control schedule. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the genetic algorithm comprises creating a plurality of resulting generations of control schedules. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the fitness of a control schedule indicates the amount of time to complete the control schedule, and wherein the chosen control schedule results in the smallest amount of time as compared to other control schedules in any of the resulting generations. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising selecting the chosen control schedule from a final one of the resulting generations based on fitness. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing stations comprise a series of stages for execution in a specified order to perform photolithography of a semiconductor wafer, the processing stations comprising a coating station, a baking station, an ultraviolet exposure station, and a development station. 7. A wafer fabrication system comprising: a plurality of processing stations; a system controller operable to determine operating characteristics for steps in a fabrication process, the operating characteristics comprising: a robot movement matrix for movements of a robot between the processing stations, wherein the robot movement matrix indicates movement time for the robot between the processing stations based on whether or not the robot is currently loaded with a wafer; processing times for each of the processing stations; and for each of the processing stations, a time for the robot to load a wafer at the processing station and a time for the robot to unload a wafer at the processing station; the system controller further operable to identify a plurality of control schedules each detailing a process for the robot to shuttle wafers between the processing stations, and to apply a genetic algorithm to select a chosen control schedule based on fitness for each of the control schedules; and the robot operable to service the processing stations according to the chosen control schedule. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein: the system controller is further operable to monitor actual operating characteristics of the robot and of the processing stations and to re-perform the genetic algorithm to identify an updated chosen control schedule; and the robot is further operable to service the processing stations according to the updated chosen control schedule. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the system controller is further operable to apply the genetic algorithm to create a plurality of resulting generations of control schedules. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the fitness of a control schedule indicates the amount of time to complete the control schedule, and wherein the chosen control schedule results in the smallest amount of time as compared to other control schedules in any of the resulting generations. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising selecting the chosen control schedule from a final one of the resulting generations based on fitness. 12. The system of claim 7, wherein the processing stations comprise a series of stages for execution in a specified order to perform photolithography of a semiconductor wafer, the processing stations comprising a coating station, a baking station, an ultraviolet exposure station, and a development station. 13. Logic for calculating a control schedule for a robot within a fabrication system, the logic encoded in media and operable when executed to perform the steps of: determining operating characteristics for steps in a fabrication process, the operating characteristics comprising: a robot movement matrix for movements between a plurality of processing stations, wherein the robot movement matrix indicates movement time for a robot between the processing stations based on whether or not the robot is currently loaded with a wafer; processing times for each of the processing stations; and for each of the processing stations, a time for the robot to load a wafer at the processing station and a time for the robot to unload a wafer at the processing station; identifying a plurality of control schedules each detailing a process for the robot to shuttle wafers between the processing stations; determining fitness for each of the control schedules using the operating characteristics; applying a genetic algorithm to select a chosen control schedule based on fitness for each of the control schedules; and providing the chosen control schedule to the robot to control operation of the robot. 14. The logic of claim 13, further operable when executed to perform the steps of: monitoring actual operating characteristics of the robot and of the processing stations; re-performing the genetic algorithm to identify an updated chosen control schedule; and operating the robot according to the updated chosen control schedule. 15. The logic of claim 13, wherein the logic is further operable to apply the genetic algorithm to create a plurality of resulting generations of control schedules. 16. The logic of claim 15, wherein the fitness of a control schedule indicates the amount of time to complete the control schedule, and wherein the chosen control schedule results in the smallest amount of time as compared to other control schedules in any of the resulting generations. 17. The logic of claim 15, further comprising selecting the chosen control schedule from a final one of the resulting generations based on fitness. 18. The logic of claim 13, wherein the processing stations comprise a series of stages for execution in a specified order to perform photolithography of a semiconductor wafer, the processing stations comprising a coating station, a baking station, an ultraviolet exposure station, and a development station. 