A method and system for laser welding non-circular or non-concentric parts, such as catalytic converter components. The present invention provides a method (and corresponding system for carrying out the method), comprising: providing a part having sections to be welded together; rotating the part on a constant speed rotary; generating a laser beam; directing the laser beam onto a surface of the part to weld the sections of the part together; and controlling the laser beam such that an angle of incidence of the laser beam on the surface of the part remains constant, the laser beam remains in focus on the surface of the part, and the laser beam moves at a constant surface speed along the surface of the part as the part is rotated on the constant speed rotary.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of laser welding comprising: providing a part having sections to be welded together; rotating the part on a constant speed rotary; generating a laser beam; directing the laser beam onto a surface of the part to weld the sections of the part together; and controlling the laser beam such that an angle of incidence of the laser beam on the surface of the part remains constant, the laser beam remains in focus on the surface of the part, and the laser beam moves at a constant surface speed along the surface of the part as the part is rotated on the constant speed rotary; wherein the controlling step is provided by manipulating a focus head outputting the laser beam using a robot, and wherein a programming method is used to program the robot, the programming method comprising: determining a surface distance around the part; segmenting the surface distance of the part into a plurality of increments having equal surface distances; determining an incremental angular displacement of the constant speed rotary based on the surface distance of the part and the number of increments; positioning the part at a reference angular start point corresponding to a selected programming point; manipulating the focus head to brine the laser beam into focus at the anile of incidence on the surface of the part at the selected programming point, and storing positional information for the focus head in a path program for the robot; rotating the part by the incremental annular displacement to the next programming point; and repeating the manipulation and rotating steps for each successive programming point. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the part is non-circular. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the non-circular part is a catalytic converter. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the part includes an outer section and an inner section, and wherein a weld produced by the laser beam penetrates the outer section and a portion of the inner section. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sections of the part are welded about a circumference of the part. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the angle of incidence of the laser beam on the surface of the part is maintained substantially normal to the surface. 7. A method for programming a laser welding robot, comprising: determining a surface distance around a part to be welded, wherein the part is rotated on a constant speed rotary; segmenting the surface distance of the part into a plurality of increments having equal surface distances; determining an incremental angular displacement of the constant speed rotary based on the surface distance of the part and the number of increments; positioning the part at a reference angular start point corresponding to a selected programming point; manipulating a focus head of the robot to bring a laser beam into focus at the angle of incidence on the surface of the part at the selected programming point, and storing positional information for the focus head in a path program for the robot; rotating the part by the incremental angular displacement to the next programming point; and repeating the manipulation and rotating steps for each successive programming point. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the part is non-circular. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein non-circular part is a catalytic converter. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the part includes an outer section and an inner section, and wherein a weld produced by the laser beam penetrates the outer section and a portion of the inner section. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the sections of the part are welded about a circumference of the part. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the angle of incidence of the laser beam on the surface of the part is maintained substantially normal to the surface. 