A method and apparatus for detection of a particular material, such as photoresist material, on a sample surface. A narrow beam of light is projected onto the sample surface and the fluoresced and/or reflected light intensity at a particular wavelength band is measured by a light detector. The light intensity is converted to a numerical value and transmitted electronically to a logic circuit which determines the proper disposition of the sample. The logic circuit controls a sample-handling robotic device which sequentially transfers samples to and from a stage for testing and subsequent disposition. The method is particularly useful for detecting photo-resist material on the surface of a semiconductor wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting a presence of at least one material on a surface of a semiconductor substrate, comprising: providing a light source; providing a first optical apparatus for directing light from said light source to a location on the surface of the semiconductor substrate, the first optical apparatus including a filter cube comprising a plurality of dichroic mirrors and a plurality of selectable ligth paths; selecting a desired light path from said plurality of selectable light paths; positioning said surface of said semiconductor substrate to receive said light directed through said desired light path; irradiating said surface of said semiconductor substrate; collecting light emanating from said surface of said semiconductor substrate responsive to said irradiating; filtering said light emanating from said semiconductor substrate surface in at least one wavelength indicative of the presence of said at least one material; and generating a signal indicative of an intensity of said filtered light. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting said signal to a logic circuit for processing. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising generating an instruction with said logic circuit for transmission to an automated substrate handling apparatus to control disposition of said semiconductor substrate based on the intensity of said filtered light as indicated by said signal. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising moving said semiconductor substrate by said automated substrate handling apparatus to a location designated to receive substrates emanating a light intensity within a selected range. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: sequentially positioning additional semiconductor substrates to receive said light directed through said desired light path on a surface of each of said additional semiconductor substrates; sequentially irradiating said surface of each of said additional semiconductor substrates; and sequentially evaluating light emanating from said surface of each of said additional semiconductor substrates responsive to said irradiating. 6. The method of claim 2, further comprising transmitting said signal to a programmed computer for processing. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the presence of said at least one material by detecting a selected wavelength of light emanating from said surface of said semiconductor substrate, said selected wavelength of light being characteristic of said at least one material. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising filtering said light generated from said light source with an excitation filter to remove non-fluorescence producing light wavelengths from said light. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the presence of said at least one material by detecting an absence of a given wavelength of light characteristically absorbed by said at least one material and characteristically reflected by said semiconductor substrate surface. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising filtering said light generated from said light source through a filter to limit light transmission to wavelengths substantially absorbed by said at least one material and substantially reflected by said semiconductor substrate surface. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the presence of said at least one material by detecting a given wavelength of light characteristically reflected by said at least one material and characteristically absorbed by said semiconductor substrate surface. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising filtering said light generated from said light source through at least one filter to limit light transmission to wavelengths substantially reflected by said at least one material and substantially absorbed by said semiconductor substrate surface. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the presence of said at least one material by detecting at least one wavelength band indicative of the presence of said at least one material. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a signal indicative of said intensity of said filtered light includes passing said filtered light through a photo-multiplier tube. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein positioning said surface of said semiconductor substrate to receive said light directed through said desired light path comprises positioning a semiconductor wafer. 16. The method of claim 2, further comprising positioning said semiconductor substrate on a movable stage for evaluating said presence of said at least one material at a plurality of sites on said surface of said semiconductor substrate. 17. The method of claim 16, further including controlling movement of said movable stage by said logic circuit. 