This invention is an instrument adaptable for integration into a process tool the combines a number of instruments for surface characterization. As an integrated process monitor, the invention is capable of monitoring surface dishing, surface erosion and thickness of residue layers on work-pieces with little time delay. The invention is adaptable to making measurements while a wafer or work-piece is either wet or dry. A preferred embodiment includes an integrated optical profiler adapted to surface profiling in the presence of optical interference arising from retro-reflections from underlying optical non-uniformities. Alternate embodiments include an integrated stylus profiler with vibration isolation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer polishing system with the integrated capability to measure wafers after polishing, said wafers having structure formed on the surface comprised of one or more stacks, said system comprising: a polisher station; an optical profilometer for evaluating variations in height of the wafer by measuring the relative optical phase of a light beam reflected off of measurement points on the wafer; an optical characterization monitor selected from a group consisting of a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer, said characterization monitor providing information about the dimensions and/or optical characteristics of the structure such that the effect of the dimensions and optical characteristics of the structure on the measured phase of the light beam in the optical profilometer can be considered in determining the variations of the height of the wafer surface; and a wafer handler for transferring wafers between the polisher station and the optical profilometer and the optical characterization monitor. 2. A polishing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said optical profilometer is selected from the group consisting of a differential interference contrast, quantitative differential interference contrast, white-light point-diffraction interferometry, phase-shift interferometry, heterodyne interferometry and phase retrieval from transport-of-intensity systems. 3. A polishing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said optical characterization monitor includes a polychromatic light beam which is directed onto the wafer with an optical element and wherein the probe beam of the optical profilometer is directed onto the wafer with the same optical element. 4. A polishing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said optical characterization monitor further functions to determine the diffraction characteristics of the structure. 5. A polishing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said optical characterization monitor is a normal incidence spectroscopic reflectometer. 6. A polishing system as recited in claim 5, wherein said optical profilometer is a common path differential interference contrast interferometer. 7. A polishing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said optical characterization monitor measures at single points. 8. A polishing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said optical characterization monitor is an imaging instrument. 9. A method of determining the optical profile of a wafer having a structure formed on the surface comprised of one or more stacks, said method comprising the steps of: evaluating changes in the height of the wafer using an optical profilometer which measures the relative optical phase of light reflected from measurement points on the wafer; and determining the optical characteristics and/or dimensions of the structure on the wafer using one of a spectroscopic reflectometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer, wherein the effects of the optical characteristics and dimensions of the stack on the measured phase of the reflected light in the optical profilometer can be considered in determining the variations in the height of the wafer surface. 