A carrier shape measurement device includes: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject of measurement; and a measurement section which measures a shape of the carrier, and the stage comprises kinematic coupling pins to support the carrier by a kinematic coupling.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A carrier shape measurement device, comprising: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject of measurement; and a measurement section which measures a shape of the carrier, wherein said stage comprises kinematic coupling pins to support the carrier by a kinematic coupling; and said measurement section specifies a horizontal datum plane based upon said kinematic coupling pins and a vertical datum plane vertical to the horizontal datum plane, and measures the shape of the carrier based upon the horizontal datum plane and the vertical datum plane. 2. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 1, wherein said stage comprises a surface which coincides with or is parallel to at least one of the horizontal datum plane and the vertical datum plane. 3. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 2, wherein said measurement section measures the shape of the carrier by taking as a reference said coinciding or parallel surface of said stage. 4. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 2, further comprising: a shifting section which shifts said measurement section relatively to the carrier, wherein a direction of shifting by said shifting section is parallel or perpendicular to said coinciding or parallel surface of said stage. 5. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 1, further comprising: a calculation section which calculates results of measurement by said measurement section, wherein said calculation section derives coordinates of a center of a wafer which is loaded into the carrier by substituting coordinates of a plurality of points upon an edge of the wafer which have been measured by said measurement section, into a predetermined equation. 6. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 1, wherein: said kinematic coupling pins comprises three pins arranged in a predetermined arrangement; and in order to support the carrier in a desired orientation with said kinematic coupling pins, said stage is made with such a structure that an orientation of the arrangement of said three pins upon said stage can be changed while the arrangement is being maintained relatively between said three pins. 7. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 6, wherein: said stage comprises a plate which comprises said kinematic coupling pins, and a support portion upon which said plate is loaded; and said support portion comprises a mechanism which can change a loading direction of said plate, in order to change the orientation of the arrangement of said three pins. 8. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 7, further comprising: a dimension calculation section which calculates dimensions of the carrier from results of measurement by said measurement section, wherein said dimension calculation section calculates the dimensions of the carrier either by using coordinates which result from said measurements just as they are, or by using coordinates which have been converted by said coordinate conversion section. 9. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 6, wherein said stage comprises a plate which comprises said kinematic coupling pins, and a rotation section which rotates said plate. 10. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 6, wherein said stage comprises a plurality of kinematic coupling pins whose arrangements of the three pins differ from one another, a mechanism section for projecting and retracting said plurality of kinematic coupling pins from said stage, and a control section which controls said mechanism section so as to selectively to project one of said plurality of kinematic coupling pins from said stage. 11. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 6, further comprising: a coordinate conversion section which converts coordinates of results of measurement according to the orientation of said kinematic coupling pins upon said stage. 12. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 1, wherein said stage comprises a surface which coincides with or is parallel to a surface based upon a designed shape of the carrier. 13. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 12, wherein said measurement section measures a shape of the carrier by comparison with said coinciding or parallel surface of said stage. 14. A carrier shape measurement device, comprising: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject of measurement; and a measurement section which measures a shape of the carrier, wherein: said stage comprises kinematic coupling pins to support the carrier by a kinematic coupling; and said stage comprises a mechanism section which vibrates said kinematic coupling pins. 15. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 14, further comprising: a detection section which detects whether or not an engagement between the carrier and said kinematic coupling pins is normal; and a control section which, if said detection section has detected that said engagement is normal, stops vibrating by said mechanism section. 16. A carrier shape measurement device, comprising: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject of measurement; and a measurement section which measures a shape of the carrier, wherein: said stage comprises kinematic coupling pins to support the carrier by a kinematic coupling; and each of said kinematic coupling pins comprises an air ejection orifice for ejecting air from its tip towards the carrier, and a flow conduit which conducts air to said air ejection orifice. 17. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 16, further comprising: a detection section which detects whether or not an engagement between the carrier and said kinematic coupling pins is normal; and a control section which, if said detection section has detected that said engagement is normal, stops supplying air to said flow conduit. 18. A carrier shape measurement device comprising: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject of measurement; a measurement section which measures a shape of the carrier; and a calculation section which calculates results of measurement by said measurement section, wherein: said stage comprises kinematic coupling pins to support the carrier by a kinematic coupling; and said calculation section derives coordinates of a center of a wafer which is loaded into the carrier by adding a dead weight bending amount, which has been determined in advance from a weight of the wafer, to at least one of coordinates of a wafer support portion of the carrier which have been measured by said measurement section, and coordinates of a point upon an edge of the wafer which have been measured by said measurement section. 19. A carrier shape measurement device comprising: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject of measurement; a measurement section which measures a shape of the carrier; and a calculation section which calculates results of measurement by said measurement section, wherein: said stage comprises kinematic coupling pins to support the carrier by a kinematic coupling; and said calculation section, by using coordinates of left and right wafer support portions of the carrier which have been measured by said measurement section, derives an inclination of a wafer which is loaded into the carrier and which is supported by said wafer support portions. 20. A carrier shape measurement device, comprising: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject for measurement; an imaging section which forms an image of the carrier, an optical axis of the imaging section being substantially parallel to a plane of a wafer which is loaded into the carrier; and a calculation section which calculates image formation results of said imaging section, wherein said imaging section comprises an objective lens, and an operational distance of said objective lens is longer than a distance from an opening of an aperture for taking a wafer out from the carrier and inserting it thereinto, to a wafer support portion within the carrier. 21. A carrier shape measurement device, comprising: a stage which supports a carrier which is to be a subject of measurement; and a measurement section which measures a shape of the carrier, wherein said stage comprises a surface which coincides with or is parallel to a vertical datum plane based upon which said measurement section measures the shape of the carrier. 22. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 21, wherein: said stage comprises a surface which coincides with or is parallel to a horizontal datum plane based upon which said measurement section measures the shape of the carrier. 23. A carrier shape measurement device according to claim 22, wherein: said stage comprises kinematic coupling pins to support the carrier by a kinematic coupling; and said measurement section specifies the horizontal datum plane based upon said kinematic coupling pins and the vertical datum plane vertical to the horizontal datum plane. 