An endoscope is provided which comprises an elongated body adapted for insertion into a body lumen, and a plurality of electrically controlled actuators associated with the body which are controllable to impart an orientation to the body that is complimentary to the natural orientation of the lumen into which the endoscope is inserted.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An endoscope comprising an elongated body adapted for insertion into a lumen, said elongated body further comprising (a) a tubular structural member and (b) electrically controlled electroactive polymer actuators that are controllable to impart a desired orientation to said body, wherein a plurality of said actuators are disposed upon a first flexible sheet and wherein a plurality of said actuators are disposed upon a second flexible sheet. 2. The endosoope of claim 1, further comprising a sensing system at a distal end of the elongated body for sensing the natural orientation of the lumen into which the endoscope is inserted. 3. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope is adapted to maintain an orientation that is complimentary to the natural orientation of the lumen as the endoscope is advanced into the lumen. 4. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said actuators are controllable to provide a desired curvature to said body in 3-dimensional space at each of a plurality of loci along the length of said body. 5. The endoscope of claim 2, wherein said sensing system is an optical system. 6. The robotic endoscope of claim 5, wherein said optical system comprises a light source and a camera. 7. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising lavage and insufflation tubes. 8. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said body is adapted to be manually advanced. 9. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope further comprises a drive mechanism for advancing the body through the lumen in accordance with a drive algorithm. 10. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a depth gauge. 11. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a linear displacement transducer. 12. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of sensors that are adapted to provide feedback regarding the orientation of the elongated body. 13. The endoscope of claim 12, wherein said sensors are strain gauges. 14. The endoscope of claim 12 wherein said sensors are disposed upon one or more flexible sheets that are subsequently rolled to form a tube that is coaxial with said elongated body. 15. The endoscope of claim 12, wherein said sensors are disposed on said first and second flexible sheets along with said actuators. 16. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said electroactive polymer actuators comprise an electroactive polymer selected from the group consisting of polyaniline, polypyrrole, and polyacetylene. 17. The endoscope of claim 14, wherein said electroactive polymer is polypyrrole. 18. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a lubricious layer disposed on the outer surface of said body. 19. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said elongated body is provided with a restoring force to bring it into alignment with its longitudinal axis, and wherein said elongated body deviates from such alignment when said actuators are in a contracted state. 20. The endoscope of claim 19, wherein said tubular structural member further comprises a plurality of structural elements, and wherein at least a portion of said restoring force is provided by a plurality of springs disposed between structural elements. 21. The endoscope of claim 19, wherein at least a portion of said restoring force is provided by an elastic cover disposed over said tubular structural member. 22. The endoscope of claim 19, wherein at least a portion of said restoring force is provided by said tubular structural member. 23. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said tubular structural member comprises one or more structural elements selected from the group consisting of (a) an open-mesh network comprising at least one metallic filament, (b) an interconnected network of articulable segments, (c) a helical structure comprising at least one metallic filament, and (d) a patterned tubular sheet. 24. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said tubular structural member further comprises a plurality of structural elements, wherein said structural elements comprise a series of short tubes. 25. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said tubular structural member comprises a plurality of structural elements, and wherein said structural elements are disposed on one or more flexible sheets that are subsequently rolled to form a tube that is coaxial with said elongated body. 26. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein each of said actuators is connected to a controlling device by way of an individual cable. 27. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein each of said actuators is connected to a controlling device by way a multiplexed cable. 28. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein each of said actuators is connected to a controlling device by way of interconnection lines that are printed on said first and second flexible sheets. 29. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope is equipped with a manual steering system that is operated under image guidance. 30. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said endoscope is equipped with an automated or semi-automated steering system comprising a lumen-center-seeking algorithm. 31. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said body comprises a lead module and a plurality of subsequent modules, and wherein said endoscope is adapted to travel through lumen in such a way that, when each subsequent module reaches a position in the lumen previously occupied by said lead module, said actuators cause said each subsequent module to replicate the orientation of the lead module at said position. 32. The endoscope of claim 31, wherein data regarding said position is provided by a depth gauge of a linear displacement module. 33. The endoscope of claim 31, wherein data regarding said lead module orientation is provided by strain gauges disposed in said lead module. 34. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein the lumen is an intestinal lumen. 35. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 1; and inserting the elongated body of said endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 36. The endoscope of claim 1, further comprising a lubricious hydrogel layer disposed on the outer surface of said elongated body. 37. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said tubular structural member further comprises a plurality of tubular structural elements. 38. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are rolled such that they are both coaxial with said tubular structural member. 39. The endoscope of claim 1, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are disposed outside said tubular structural member. 40. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 2; and inserting the elongated body of said endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 41. An endoscopic procedure, compromising: providing the elongated body of said endoscope of claim 23; and inserting the endoscope into a body lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 42. An endoscopic procedure, comprising: providing the endoscope of claim 30; and inserting the elongated body of said endoscope into said intestinal lumen while controlling said actuators to impart said desired orientation to the elongated endoscope body. 43. An endoscope comprising an elongated body adapted for insertion into a lumen, said elongated body further comprising (a) a tubular structural member, (b) electrically controlled electroactive polymer actuators that are controllable to impart a desired orientation to said body, wherein a plurality of said actuators are disposed upon a first flexible sheet, and (c) sensors disposed on a second flexible sheet that are adapted to provide feedback regarding the orientation of the elongated body. 44. The endoscope of claim 43, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are rolled such that they are both coaxial with said tubular structural member. 45. An endoscope, comprising: an elongated body adapted for insertion into an a lumen, said elongated body further comprising (a) a tubular structural member and (b) a plurality of electrically controlled electroactive polymer actuators associated with said body, said actuators being controllable to impart a desired orientation to said body that reflects the natural orientation of the lumen into which the endoscope is inserted, wherein a plurality of said actuators are disposed upon a first flexible sheet which is disposed inside said tubular structural member. 