A fermentation apparatus is constructed to produce a known and repeatable amount of untainted fermentation product using multiple fermentation vessels. To facilitate further processing compatible with other product processing steps, the fermentation apparatus has an array of sample vessels arranged in a container frame. The container frame is configured to hold the sample vessels during fermentation and to transport the vessel array to or from another processing station. Corresponding to the number of sample vessels in the sample vessel array, a cannula array is configured such that each cannula may be placed inside a sample vessel. The cannula array is attached to a gas distributor that delivers oxygen and/or one or more other gases from a gas source through the cannula into the sample vessel. Because the fermentation volume for each individual sample vessel is smaller than a bulk fermentation apparatus, the fermentation product yields are predictable and cell growth rates can be effectively optimized.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fermentor head for multiple sample fermentation, the fermentor head comprising: (a) a dispensing plate that comprises a top portion and a bottom portion, wherein the bottom portion and the top portion are joined together such that a hollow space exists between the top portion and the bottom portion; (b) an array of sample vessel areas located in a bottom surface of the bottom portion, which sample vessel areas each comprise a recess and are positioned to correspond to an array of sample vessels; (c) an array of cannulas that are in fluid communication with the hollow space and protrude from a bottom surface of the dispensing plate through the sample vessel areas, wherein at least one cannula of the array of cannulas extends into a liquid in a sample vessel when the sample vessel is positioned in a sample vessel area through which the cannula protrudes; and (d) a gas inlet in fluid communication with the hollow space for delivering gas into a plurality of sample vessels via the cannulas during fermentation. 2. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein the dispensing plate further comprises an array of apertures for accessing samples during fermentation. 3. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein the array of cannulas comprises an 8 by 12 array. 4. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein the array of cannulas comprises at least 96 cannulas. 5. The fermentor head of claim 4, wherein the array of cannulas comprises 96, 384, or 1536 cannulas. 6. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein the cannulas extend 15 to 16 centimeters below the bottom surface of the dispensing plate. 7. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein at least one sample vessel area comprises a size sufficient to hold a sample vessel having a volume of 50 to 200 ml. 8. The fermentor head of claim 7, wherein the recess is of a size sufficient to hold a sample vessel having a volume of 50 to 100 ml. 9. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein the cannulas deliver gas adjacent to a bottom of the sample vessels during fermentation. 10. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein the gas inlet delivers oxygen or nitrogen into the hollow space of the dispensing plate, thereby providing oxygen or nitrogen to the sample vessels via the cannulas during fermentation. 11. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein each of the cannulas comprise at least three passages. 12. The fermentor head of claim 1, wherein the cannulas are adapted to deliver gas, deliver fluid, or aspirate fluid from the sample vessels during fermentation. 