The present invention provides a robotic gripper mechanism. The invention comprises gripping jaws and a wedge that moves along angled groove between the gripping jaws. The angled grooves are connected to the gripping jaws, and the wedge moves the gripping jaws together and apart as it slides backward and forward along the angled grooves. The wedge also keeps the gripper jaws parallel to each other as they open and close. A motor moves the wedge backward and forward, and guiding surfaces attached to the base prevent the jaws from moving horizontally relative to the base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic gripper, comprising: gripping jaws for gripping objects; a wedge between the gripping jaws, wherein the wedge moves along angled grooves connected to the gripping jaws, and wherein the wedge moves the gripping jaws together and apart as it slides forward and backward between the jaws along the angled grooves, and wherein the wedge keeps the jaws parallel to each other as they open and close; and a motor that moves the wedge backward and forward. 2. The robotic gripper according to claim 1, further comprising: guiding surfaces connecting the gripper jaws to a base, wherein the guiding surfaces prevent the gripping jaws from moving horizontally relative to the base as they move apart and together. 3. The robotic gripper according to claim 1, further comprising a leadscrew and nut connecting the motor and wedge, wherein the nut applies pressure to the wedge. 4. The robotic gripper according to claim 3, further comprising a spring between the nut and wedge, wherein the spring provides a mechanical damping to contact between the gripper jaws and gripped objects. 5. The robotic gripper according to claim 4, wherein the leadscrew and nut increase the compression of the spring in order to increase gripping force. 6. The robotic gripper according to claim 5, further comprising a sensor that can turn off the motor when spring compression reaches a specified maximum level. 7. The robotic gripper according to claim 1, wherein the gripper mechanism is part of an automated data storage library. 8. The robotic gripper according to claim 1, wherein the wedge moves in a direction parallel to the gripping jaws. 