A substrate to be processed in a high temperature processing chamber is preheated to avoid the problems associated with thermal shock when the substrate is dropped onto a heated susceptor. Preheating is effected by holding the substrate over a susceptor maintained at or near the processing temperature until the temperature of the substrate approaches the processing temperature. Thus, wafer warping and breakage are greatly reduced, and wafer throughput is improved because of time saved in maintaining the susceptor at constant temperature without cool down and reheat periods.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for processing substrates comprising: a substrate support; a robot handler to place a substrate on the support and to remove the substrate from the support; one or more heating elements positioned to heat at least the substrate and the substrate support; and a control system configured to cause the handler to hold the substrate above the substrate support for a preheat period before placing the substrate on the support, while maintaining a support temperature of greater than about 900.degree. C. during the time the substrate is being moved on or off the support. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the heating elements include radiant heat lamps. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the heating elements include a resistive heating element in the substrate support. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said heating elements include a plurality of radiant heating lamps which are positioned above the substrate support, and said handler is configured to move above the substrate support and below the lamps, said control system during said preheat period is configured to cause the lamps to heat the upper side of said substrate during said preheat period while said substrate support heats a lower side of the substrate. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said robot handler is a Bernoulli wand which is configured to hold the substrate from above by creating a low gas pressure above the wafer without contacting the upper surface of the wafer, and said wand is substantially transparent to radiant energy such that the substrate can be heated from above by said lamps. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said robot handler is a Bernoulli wand which is configured to hold the substrate from above by creating a low gas pressure above the wafer without contacting the upper surface of the wafer, and said wand absorbs radiant energy such that the wand and the substrate can be heated by said lamps. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said robot handler includes a paddle to support a substrate from below while maintaining a substantial portion of the lower surface of the substrate exposed to the substrate support during said preheat period. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said robot handler comprises an end effector that holds the substrate by substrate edges. 9. An apparatus for processing substrates comprising: a substrate support; a substrate handler to place a substrate on the support and to remove the substrate from the support; one or more heating elements positioned to heat at least the substrate and the substrate support, wherein said heating elements include a plurality of radiant heating lamps which are positioned above the substrate support, and said handler is configured to move above the substrate support and below the lamps, said control system during said preheat period is configured to cause the lamps to heat the upper side of said substrate during said preheat period while said substrate support heats a lower side of the substrate; a control system configured to cause the handler to hold the substrate above the substrate support for a preheat period before placing the substrate on the support, while maintaining a support temperature of greater than about 900.degree. C. during the time the substrate is being moved on or off the support; and gas tubes connected to provide purging gas to a chamber enclosing the substrate support, and said control system being configured to reduce the flow of purging gas into the chamber during the preheat period. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot handler comprises an end effector that introduces the substrate into a process chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the robot handler further comprises a robot arm, the end effector located at the end of the robotic arm. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the end effector is a Bernoulli wand or paddle with a fork-like configuration. 