A system and method for positioning a medical instrument at a desired biological target tissue site is provided. The system includes an elongated sheath having a deflectable distal end configured to deflect or otherwise position at least a portion of a medical instrument during a surgical procedure allowing for the placement of the deflected portion adjacent or proximate to a predetermined target tissue surface. The positioning system may be incorporated into the medical instrument. The medical instrument may be an ablation system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device to position a medical instrument during a surgical procedure, comprising: a handle; a guide sheath operably attached to the handle and having a deflectable distal end comprising a sharp tip translatable from a position external to the distal end to a position within at least a portion of the deflectable distal end; an activation means for slidably controlling the translatable sharp tip; and a deflection means for deflecting the distal end of the guide sheath, wherein tissue is dissected by the translatable sharp tip creating an opening through which at least a portion of the medical instrument can be advanced and positioned adjacent a target tissue site. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the guide sheath is configured to slidably receive a portion of a medical instrument along a longitudinal axis of the deflectable distal end. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the guide sheath is malleable. 4. The device of claim 2, wherein the guide sheath is slidably attached to the handle. 5. The device of claim 2, wherein the deflection means comprises an attachment point allowing for the deflection of the deflectable distal end along at least one plane. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein the attachment point comprises one or more nodes on the distal end of the elongated sheath and one or more matching recesses on the proximal end of the deflectable distal end which are configured to accept the one or more nodes. 7. The device of claim 5, wherein the attachment point comprises one or more pins, the one or more pins defining a fulcrum about which the deflectable distal end rotates. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the deflection means comprises one or more components, alone or in combination, selected from the group consisting of pull wires, springs of various shapes and configurations, sliders, switches, or motors. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the activation means is part of the deflection means, the operation of the deflection means and the activation means being performed in one controlled movement by a surgeon performing the surgical procedure. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the deflection means is at least partially located within the handle. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein the deflection means deflects the deflectable distal end from about 0.degree. to about 180.degree.. 12. The device of claim 1 herein the medical instrument is an ablation system. 