A system (10) for conducting an image-guided medical procedure on a subject (20) includes a medical imaging apparatus (100) which intermittently during the procedure obtains, upon demand, real-time medical images of the actual procedure. A robotic arm (200) hold a medical instrument (e.g., a biopsy needle (210)) that is used to perform the procedure. The robotic arm (200) manipulates the medical instrument in response to drive signals from a haptic control (400). A detector (e.g., a strain gauge (230)) measures forces experienced by the medical instrument during the procedure. The haptic control (400) generates the drive signals in response to manipulations of an input device (e.g., a knob (404) or an auxiliary instrument, such as, in the case of a biopsy, a remote needle (500)) by an operator, and the operator receives tactile feedback from the haptic control (400) in accordance with the measured forces experienced by the medical instrument. A display (e.g., a video monitor (152)) shows a virtual planning view of the procedure. The virtual planning view depicts a pre-procedure image (310) of the subject (20) with a virtual medical instrument (e.g., a virtual needle (300)) corresponding to the medical instrument held by the robotic arm (200) superimposed therein. In response to the drive signals from the haptic control (400), the virtual medical instrument has its position and orientation updated relative to the pre-procedure image (310).
Claims Having thus described the preferred embodiment(s), the invention is now claimed to be: 1. A system for conducting an image-guided medical procedure on a subject, the system comprising: a medical imaging apparatus which intermittently during the procedure obtains, upon demand, real-time medical images of the actual procedure; a robotic arm that holds a medical instrument used to perform the procedure, said robotic arm manipulating the medical instrument in response to a first signal; a detector which measures forces experienced by the medical instrument during the procedure and generates a second signal proportional thereto; a feedback circuit which receives the second signal and generates a third signal that has a non-linear relationship to the second signal; a haptic control, said haptic control generating the first signal in response to manipulations of an input device by an operator, said operator receiving tactile feedback from the haptic control in accordance with the third signal such that the tactile feedback has a non-linear relationship to the measured forces experienced by the medical instrument; and, a display which shows a virtual planning view of the procedure, said virtual planning view depicting a pre-procedure image of the subject with a virtual medical instrument corresponding to the medical instrument held by the robotic arm superimposed therein, said virtual medical instrument, in response to the first signal from the haptic control, having its position and orientation updated relative to the pre-procedure image. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the detector is a strain gauge, a load cell or a pressure sensor. 3. A system for conducting an image-guided medical procedure on a subject, the system comprising: a medical imaging apparatus which intermittently during the procedure obtains, upon demand, real-time medical images of the actual procedure; a robotic arm that holds a medical instrument used to perform the procedure, said robotic arm manipulating the medical instrument in response to a first signal; a gripper having an end-effector in which the medical instrument is held, said end-effector being mechanically joined to the gripper by at least one strain gauge and a plurality of resilient spring members, said resilient spring members and said strain gauge being arranged to protect against canting of the end-effector; a haptic control, said haptic control generating the first signal in response to manipulations of an input device by an operator, said operator receiving tactile feedback from the haptic control in accordance with forces measured by the strain gauge; and, a display which shows a virtual planning view of the procedure, said virtual planning view depicting a pre-procedure image of the subject with a depiction of the medical instrument held by the robotic arm superimposed therein. 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the strain gauge and at least one of the resilient spring members are arranged juxtaposed to one another on opposite sides of the end-effector. 5. The system according to claim 3, wherein said detector generates a second signal responsive to the forces measured thereby, and further comprising: a feedback processing unit that in response to the second signal generates a third signal which is communicated to the haptic control, said haptic control producing the tactile feedback in response to the third signal. 6. A system for conducting an image-guided medical procedure on a subject, the system comprising: a medical imaging apparatus which intermittently during the procedure obtains, upon demand, real-time medical images of the actual procedure; a robotic arm that holds a medical instrument used to perform the procedure, said robotic arm manipulating the medical instrument in response to a first signal; a detector which measures forces experienced by the medical instrument during the procedure and generates a second signal indicative thereof; an amplifier which amplifies the second signal; an analog-to-digital converter which digitizes the amplified second signal; a look-up table which is accessed by the digitized second signal and maps the digitized second signal to a programmable power supply control signal; a programmable power supply which generates the third signal in response to the programmable power supply signal; a haptic control, said haptic control generating the first signal in response to manipulations of an input device by an operator, said operator receiving tactile feedback from the haptic control in accordance with the third signal; and, a display which shows images of the subject. 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the look-up table is tuned such that the tactile feedback provided to the operator by the haptic control is essentially the same as would be experienced by the operator if the operator were to directly manipulate the medical instrument. 8. The system according to claim 6, wherein the look-up table is tuned to enhance the tactile feedback provided to the operator by the haptic control when the medical instrument transitions from one particular tissue type to another. 9. A system for conducting an image-guided medical procedure on a subject, the system comprising: a medical imaging apparatus which intermittently during the procedure obtains, upon demand, real-time medical images of the actual procedure; a robotic arm that holds a medical instrument used to perform the procedure, said robotic arm manipulating the medical instrument in response to a first signal; a detector which measures forces experienced by the medical instrument during the procedure; a haptic control including: an input device which is manipulated by an operator; a shaft which rotates in response to the operator's manipulation of the input device; a brake which regulates how easy it is to rotate the shaft, said brake being responsive to the forces measured by the detector; an encoder which measures the rotation of the shaft and generates the first signal responsive thereto; a display which shows a view of the procedure, said view depicting an image of the subject with an indication of the position and orientation of the medical instrument held by the robotic arm superimposed therein. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the input device is an auxiliary medical instrument coupled to the shaft, said auxiliary medical instrument substantially mimicking the medical instrument held by the robotic arm. 11. The system according to claim 9, wherein the haptic control further comprises: an adjustable mount for mounting the haptic control to a work surface, said adjustable mount including a joint that allows the operator to selectively orient the input device along a plurality of orientations regardless of the work surface's orientation. 12. The system according to claim 9, wherein when the measured force from the detector exceeds a determined threshold, the brake is fully engaged thereby substantially fixing the shaft against rotation. 13. A method of conducting a medical procedure on a subject, said method comprising: (a) planning the medical procedure, said planning including obtaining a pre-procedure image of the subject and superimposing therein a virtual medical instrument that corresponds to an actual medical instrument used to conduct the medical procedure; (b) remotely controlling a robotic arm holding the actual medical instrument to conduct the medical procedure; (c) measuring forces experienced by the actual needle as the medical procedure is being conducted; (d) providing tactile feedback to an operator conducting the procedure based on the measured forces, the tactile feedback varying in degree in different portions of the procedure; (e) updating a position and orientation of the virtual medical instrument in the pre-procedure image in accordance with the controlling of the robotic arm; and, (f) intermittently during the medical procedure, obtaining real-time images of the actual medical procedure. 14. The method according to claim 13, wherein step (b) comprises: manipulating an auxiliary medical instrument that substantially mimics the actual medical instrument such that the robotic arm manipulates the actual medical instrument in substantially the same manner. 15. A method of conducting a medical procedure on a subject, said method comprising: (a) planning the medical procedure, said planning including obtaining a pre-procedure image of the subject and superimposing therein a virtual medical instrument that corresponds to an actual medical instrument used to conduct the medical procedure and determining a threshold force which indicates an upper limit of the force which the actual medical instrument should be allowed to exert during the planned procedure; (b) remotely controlling a robotic arm holding the actual medical instrument to conduct the medical procedure by manipulating an auxiliary medical instrument that substantially mimics the actual medical instrument such that the robotic arm manipulates the actual medical instrument in substantially the same manner; (c) measuring forces experienced by the actual medical instrument as the medical procedure is being conducted; (d) providing tactile feedback to an operator conducting the procedure based on the measured forces; (e) substantially fixing the auxiliary medical instrument against manipulation when the measured forces exceed the determined threshold forces; (f) updating a position and orientation of the virtual medical instrument in the pre-procedure image in accordance with the controlling of the robotic arm; and, (g) intermittently during the medical procedure, obtaining real-time images of the actual medical instrument. 16. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: indicating to the operator when the measured forces exceed a determined threshold. 17. An apparatus for performing a medical procedure on a subject with a medical instrument, the apparatus comprising: imaging means for intermittently during the procedure obtaining, upon demand, real-time medical images of the actual procedure; robotic means for holding the medical instrument used to perform the procedure, said robotic means manipulating the medical instrument in response to a first signal; force detecting means for measuring forces experienced by the medical instrument during the procedure; control means for generating the first signal in response to manipulations of an input device by an operator and for providing said operator tactile feedback in accordance with the measured forces experienced by the medical instrument; and, display means for showing a virtual planning view of the procedure, said virtual planning view depicting a pre-procedure image of the subject with a virtual medical instrument corresponding to the medical instrument held by the robotic means superimposed therein, said virtual medical instrument, in response to the first signal from the control means, having its position and orientation updated relative to the pre-procedure image. 18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the imaging means is a CT scanner, an MRI scanner, a fluoroscope, a SPECT scanner or a PET scanner. 19. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the force detecting means is a strain gauge, a load cell or a pressure sensor. 20. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the medical instrument is a biopsy needle. 