A lightweight windshield wiper installation system is provided wherein the system includes a re-usable mounting device in combination with a lightweight windshield wiper assembly which does not require a connecting member. The mounting device includes a mounting arm having a first end and a second end, a first retaining means, a second retaining means. The lightweight windshield wiper installation system may further include an arm linkage, and a release handle. The mounting arm is operative to position a lightweight windshield wiper system onto a vehicle which is removably attached to the mounting arm via the first retaining means and the second retaining means. The release handle cooperates with the first retaining means and the second retaining means via an arm linkage to hold and release the lightweight windshield wiper system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An easy-to-install lightweight windshield wiper system, the wiper system consisting of: a motor; a first wiper arm for cleaning a windshield; a first pivot shaft having an indented surface and being adapted to receive the first wiper arm, the first pivot shaft being operative to reciprocate the first wiper arm across the windshield; a first pivot body integral with a first mounting plate, the first pivot body surrounding the connection between the first pivot shaft and the first wiper arm; a second wiper arm for cleaning a windshield; a second pivot shaft having an indented surface and being adapted to receive the second wiper arm, the second pivot shaft being operative to reciprocate the second wiper arm across the windshield; a second pivot body integral with a second mounting plate, the second pivot body surrounding the connection between the second pivot shaft and the second wiper arm; and a linkage connecting the first pivot shaft to the second pivot shaft, whereby the motor transfers energy to the first wiper arm and the second wiper arm through the linkage, the first pivot shaft, and second pivot shaft causing the first and second wiper arms to reciprocate across the windshield. 2. The lightweight windshield wiper system of claim 1 wherein the indented surface of the first pivot shaft engages with a retaining clip of a mounting arm. 3. The lightweight windshield wiper system of claim 1 wherein the indented surface of the second pivot shaft engages with a retaining clip of a mounting arm. 