A method for controlling the variation in process parameters using test structures sensitized to process parameter changes. Wavefront engineering techniques are used to make features of the test structure more sensitive to process changes. Focus and exposure parameters are adjusted in response to the measurements of the test structures. In another embodiment, the wavefront engineering features are placed to permit the test structure appearing on the reticle out of focus. The wavefront engineering feature is an OPC technique applied to the test structure to modify it. The OPC features are applied in an asymmetrical manner to the test structure and enable identifying the direction of process focus changes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling semiconductor lithographic process parameters comprising: forming a test structure on a reticle, the test structure having wavefront engineering features to modify the print transfer characteristics of the test structure; transferring the test structure to a first wafer using the lithography process to form a wafer test structure; and measuring at least a portion of the wafer test structure and comparing it to a reference dimension to determine whether at least one lithographic process parameter has changed and to provide an indirect measure of the change in the at least one lithographic process parameter. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein the reference dimension is obtained from a second formation of the wafer test structure on one of the first wafer or a second wafer. 3. The method recited in claim 1 further comprising adjusting the at least one lithographic process parameter when the lithographic process has changed. 4. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the design of the wavefront engineering features is selected to result in an optimal sensitivity of the wafer test structure to a change in the at least one lithographic process parameter. 5. The method recited in claim 1, further comprising determining the design of the wavefront engineering feature by experimental means. 6. The method recited in claim 1 further comprising determining design of the wavefront engineering feature by a simulation run on a simulation tool. 7. The method recited in claim 2 wherein an optical overlay tool is used to measure the test structure in at least one of the first and second formations of the wafer test structure. 8. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the design of the wavefront engineering feature is selected so that the test structure is sensitive to changes in focus and exposure of an exposure tool used to form the wafer test structure. 9. The method recited in claim 2 wherein the wafer test structure is analyzed using image processing software. 10. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the wavefront engineering feature is a phase shift mask design. 11. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the wavefront engineering feature is an optical proximity correction. 12. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the test structure responds independently to focus and exposure variations. 13. The method recited in claim 1 further comprising adjusting the lithographic process parameter when the measured portion exceeds the reference dimension by a predetermined threshold. 14. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the wavefront engineering feature is configured to produce a predetermined change in the wafer test structure when the at least one lithography process parameter changes by a predetermined threshold. 