A fast serial interface including a three-wire network connection between a bus controller and one or more bus devices is disclosed. The bus controller processes and issues data packets across the three-wire network that include a command code, a bus device selection code, and a bus device register selection code. If the command code corresponds to write code, then the selected bus device stores the data contained within the packet in the selected register. If the command code corresponds to a read command, the selected bus device retrieves the data stored in the selected register, forms a read data packet and transfers the read data packet to the bus controller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for providing serial data communication between a first robot bus device and a second robot bus device, the apparatus comprising: a first robot bus device acting as a bus controller; a second robot bus device; a three wire network connection including a first data line to transmit data from the first robot bus device to the second robot bus device and a second data line to transmit data from the second robot bus device to the first robot bus device, and a clock line having a clock signal thereon for providing a clock signal from the first robot bus device to the second robot bus device; the first robot bus device coupled to the second robot bus device via the three wire network connection; and a multi-bit data packet that is a data out packet including, a data synchronization portion, a command portion, a receiver selection portion, a data portion, a parity portion, and an error portion. 2. The apparatus in claim 1 wherein the data packet further includes: the data synchronization includes 3 bits for packet synchronization; the command portion includes 2 bit field command select; the receiver selection portion includes 6 bits; the data portion includes 8 bits of data; the parity portion includes 1 bit of even parity for the 8 bits of data, 1 bit for parity error detect for the 8 bits of data, and 1 bit of even parity; and the error portion includes 1 bit for bus collision status. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further including a null portion. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the null portion includes 3 bits. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the 6 bit receiver selection portion includes 3 bits to select the second robot bus device and 3 bits to select a one of a plurality of registers therewithin. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first robot bus device further comprises: a first robot bus device control and status register that stores a plurality of bus device selection data; and a first robot bus device data register that stores a plurality of data transferred to and from the second robot bus device. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second robot bus device further comprises; a second device data register that stores a plurality of data to be transferred to and from the first robot bus device. 8. A method for transferring data between a first robot bus device and a second robot bus device having a plurality of data registers, the first robot bus device including a control register for storing second robot bus device selection data, second robot bus device register selection data, and command data, and a data transfer register for storing data to be transferred to and from the selected bus device, the second robot bus device plurality of data registers including a data transfer register for storing data to be transferred to and from the first robot bus device, the method comprising: providing second robot bus device selection data; storing said second robot bus device selection data in said control register; providing second robot bus device register selection data; storing said second robot bus device register selection data in said control register; providing data to be transferred; storing said data to be transferred in said first robot bus device data register; and forming a data packet including a plurality of packet data including, a data synchronization portion, a command portion, a receiver selection portion, a data portion, a parity portion, and an error portion. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the data packet includes a data synchronization portion including 3 bits in a predetermined synchronization pattern for packet synchronization; the command portion including 2 bits as a command code read from the first robot bus device control register; the receiver selection portion including 6 bits; the data portion including 8 bits of data to be transferred read from the first robot bus device data transfer register; the parity portion 1 bit of even parity for the 8 bits of data, and 1 bit for parity error detect for the 8 bits of data and the 1 bit of even parity; and the error portion 1 bit for bus collision status; and transferring the data packet from the first robot bus device to the second robot bus device over a serial link including a first data transfer line and a clock line having a clock signal thereon. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the data packet further includes a null data portion. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the null data portion includes 3 bits. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the 6 bit includes a bus robot device selection portion and a register selection portion. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the bus robot device selection portion includes 3 bits and the register selection portion includes 3 bits. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the command code is a write command, the method further including the steps of: receiving the data packet by the second robot bus device corresponding to the second robot bus device selection data; reading the 8 bits of data in the device packet; and storing the 8 bits of data in the register corresponding to the second robot bus device register select data. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the command code is a read command, the method further including the steps of: receiving the data packet by the second robot bus device corresponding to the second robot bus device selection data; reading the data stored in the register corresponding to the second robot bus device register select data; forming a read 26 bit packet data including, 3 bits for packet synchronization; 8 bits indicating status of each of the second robot devices; 8 bits of data; 1 bit of even parity for the 8 bits of data 1 bit for parity error detect for the 8 bits of data and 1 bit of even parity; 1 bit for bus collision status; and 3 bit as a null field; and transferring the read 26 bit data packet to the first robot bus device. 