A working robot is used in space for inspecting the state of a structure of a house module in space or for replacing M/D shields. A robot body is provided with four multifunctional arms (or two moving arms and two multifunctional arms), which are equipped with manipulation tools at their leading ends. The robot is moved by the manipulation tools of each of the multifunctional arms gripping a working socket or the head of a bolt of an M/D shield and by the arms extending/contracting themselves. The M/D shield is fixed and lifted by the multifunctional arms 10 by inserting the manipulation tool into a T-handle socket. The bolts are removed by the manipulation tool of the multifunctional arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A working robot comprising: a robot body; and at least one arm device including a plurality of arm members and a manipulation tool, wherein adjacent end portions of said plurality of arm members are articulately jointed, one end of said at least one arm device is turnably attached to said robot body, and said manipulation tool is located at another end of said at least one arm device, wherein said at least one arm device is extensible and contractible, and wherein said at least one arm device comprises at least one moving arm and at least one multifunctional arm, and said at least one moving arm is for moving said robot body with said manipulation tool by either gripping a head of a bolt of a plurality of bolts for attaching an attached member to a surface of a structure, or removing the bolt and screwing another bolt in place of the bolt, and by extending and contracting said at least one moving arm. 2. A working robot as set forth in claim 1, wherein a lower face of said robot body has a fixing member, and said robot body and said at least one multifunctional arm are operable to lift the attached member by fixing said fixing member onto the attached member and by fixing said manipulation tool of said at least one multifunctional arm onto another attached member to be replaced. 3. A working robot as set forth in claim 2, wherein said fixing member of said robot body is a piston type adaptor and said multifunctional arm has another piston type adapter, and said manipulation tool and the structure have sockets that are engagable with said adapters. 4. A working robot as set forth in claim 2, wherein said manipulation tool of said at least one multifunctional arm has an unbolting driver for the plurality of bolts of the attached member. 5. A working robot as set forth in claim 2, wherein said manipulation tool of said at least one multifunctional arm has a hand for gripping hand rails attached to the structure. 6. A working robot as set forth in claim 1, wherein said manipulation tool of said at least one moving arm has a light and a camera. 7. A working robot as set forth in claim 1, wherein said at least one multifunctional arm has a light and a camera for detecting a position of said at least one multifunctional arm and a state of the ground. 8. A working robot comprising: a robot body; and at least one arm device including a plurality of arm members and a manipulation tool, wherein adjacent end portions of said plurality of arm members are articulately jointed, one end of said at least one arm device is turnably attached to said robot body, and said manipulation tool is located at another end of said at least one arm device, wherein said at least one arm device is extensible and contractible, and wherein said at least one arm device comprises a plurality of multifunctional arms having manipulation tools and said multifunctional arms are operable to move said robot body by said manipulation tools gripping sockets or bolt heads protruding from a surface of a structure and by said multifunctional arms extending and contracting. 9. A working robot as set forth in claim 8, wherein one of said plurality of multifunctional arms is operable to replace an attached member attached to a surface of a structure by fixing said manipulation tool of said one of said plurality of multifunctional arms onto the attached member to be replaced, and by said manipulation tools of a remainder of said plurality of multifunctional arms gripping the sockets or bolt heads of another attached member. 10. A working robot as set forth in claim 9, wherein said manipulation tools of said plurality of multifunctional arms have piston type adapters operable to engage with sockets within the structure. 11. A working robot as set forth in claim 9, wherein said manipulation tools of said plurality of multifunctional arms have unbolting drivers for bolts of the attached member. 12. A working robot as set forth in claim 9, wherein said manipulation tools of said plurality of multifunctional arms have hands for gripping hand rails attached to the structure. 13. A working robot as set forth in claim 8, wherein leading ends of said manipulation tools have lights and cameras. 14. A working robot as set forth in claim 8, wherein said plurality of multifunctional arms have lights and cameras for detecting positions of said plurality of multifunctional arms and a state of the ground. 15. A working robot comprising: a robot body; and at least one arm device including a plurality of arm members and a manipulation tool, wherein adjacent end portions of said plurality of arm members are articulately jointed, one end of said at least one arm device is turnably attached to said robot body, and said manipulation tool is located at another end of said at least one arm device, wherein said at least one arm device is extensible and contractible, and wherein said at least one arm device comprises at least one moving arm having said manipulation tool and at least one multifunctional arm, a lower face of said robot body and said manipulation tool of said at least one moving arm have drills or bits for inserting and fixing in the ground, and said at least one moving arm is operable to move said robot body, while said robot body is unfixed on the ground, by said at least one moving arm extending and contracting and screwing said drill or bit of said at least one moving arm into the ground, then to fix said robot body on the ground by said drills or bits of said robot body, and to remove said drill or bit of said at least one moving arm from the ground after said robot body is fixed. 16. A working robot as set forth in claim 15, wherein said manipulation tool of said at least one moving arm has a light and a camera. 17. A working robot as set forth in claim 15, wherein said at least one multifunctional arm has a light and a camera for detecting a position of said at least one multifunctional arm and a state of the ground. 18. A working robot as set forth in claim 20, wherein said plurality of multifunctional arms have lights and cameras for detecting positions of said plurality of multifunctional arms and a state of the ground. 19. A working robot comprising: a robot body; and at least one arm device including a plurality of arm members and a manipulation tool, wherein adjacent end portions of said plurality of arm members are articulately jointed, one end of said at least one arm device is turnably attached to said robot body, and said manipulation tool is located at another end of said at least one arm device, wherein said at least one arm device is extensible and contractible, and wherein said at least one arm device comprises at least one moving arm having said manipulation tool and at least one multifunctional arm, and said manipulation tool of said at least one moving arm has a wheel adapter operable to move said robot body. 20. A working robot comprising: a robot body; and at least one arm device including a plurality of arm members and a manipulation tool, wherein adjacent end portions of said plurality of arm members are articulately jointed, one end of said at least one arm device is turnably attached to said robot body, and said manipulation tool is located at another end of said at least one arm device, wherein said at least one arm device is extensible and contractible, and wherein said at least one arm device comprises a plurality of multifunctional arms having manipulation tools, said manipulation tools of said plurality of multifunctional arms having drills or bits for inserting and fixing in the ground, and said plurality of multifunctional arms are operable to move said robot body by alternately extending and contracting and alternately screwing and removing said drills or bits into or from the ground. 21. A working robot as set forth in claim 20, wherein leading ends of said manipulation tools have lights and cameras. 22. A working robot comprising: a robot body; and at least one arm device including a plurality of arm members and a manipulation tool, wherein adjacent end portions of said plurality of arm members are articulately jointed, one end of said at least one arm device is turnably attached to said robot body, and said manipulation tool is located at another end of said at least one arm device, wherein said at least one arm device is extensible and contractible, and wherein said at least one arm device comprises a plurality of multifunctional arms having manipulation tools, said manipulation tools of said plurality of multifunctional arms having wheel adapters operable to move said robot body. 23. A working robot comprising: a robot body; and at least one arm device including a plurality of arm members and a manipulation tool, wherein adjacent end portions of said plurality of arm members are articulately jointed, one end of said at least one arm device is turnably attached to said robot body, and said manipulation tool is located at another end of said at least one arm device, wherein said at least one arm device is extensible and contractible, and wherein said at least one arm device is operable to move said robot body by said manipulation tool gripping sockets of bolt heads protruding from a surface of a structure and by at least one arm device extending and contracting, and said manipulation tool of said at least one arm device is for gripping, carrying and transferring an attached member attached to a surface of a structure. 24. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, wherein said at least one arm device has an attaching portion attaching said at least one arm device to said robot body, said attaching portion being operable to detach said at least one arm device from said robot body during operation of said working robot. 25. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, further comprising a plurality of visual sensors are attached to a surface of said robot body. 26. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, further comprising an adapter attached to a leading end of said at least one arm device for gripping the sockets or bolt heads protruding from the surface of the structure, wherein said adapter is removable from said leading end of said at least one arm device during operation of said working robot. 27. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, further comprising a support device disposed on an upper face of said robot body, said support device being adjustable according to a width-wise contour of a supported member of an arbitrary shape to support the supported member on two sides. 28. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, further comprising an adapter operable to mount a supported member of an arbitrary shape on an upper face of said robot body, wherein a bottom surface of the supported member is supported by said adapter. 29. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, wherein said at least one arm device has a plurality of joints and an attaching portion operable to be extended by a predetermined length to adjust a position thereof, and said at least one arm device is operable to extend and contract at said joints. 30. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, wherein said at least one arm device has an extensible mechanism between joints of said at least one arm device, said extensible mechanism being operable to change a moving range, a gripping range and a moving speed of said at least one arm device. 31. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, further comprising a plurality of solar cell modules attached to a surface of said robot body and to a periphery of said at least one arm device so that individual portions of said working robot, even when separated from said robot body, can be driven by communications thereto. 32. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, wherein an upper face of said robot body has an antenna mounted thereon. 33. A working robot as set forth in claim 23, wherein said robot body is foldable in two at a center thereof. 