A method and system for researching and developing and/or optimizing new catalysts and products in a combinatorial manner is disclosed. The method begins with starting components or a ligand library and provides methods of creating catalyst or product libraries, which are then tested in a reaction of interest. The system uses methods of robotic handling for moving libraries from station to station. The method and apparatus are especially useful for synthesizing, screening, and characterizing combinatorial catalyst libraries, but also offer significant advantages over conventional experimental methods as well.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for researching for novel metal ligand catalysts, the method comprising: providing a parent ligand library comprising a plurality of chemically diverse member ligands in a spatially addressable format, forming a daughter library from the parent ligand library, the daughter ligand library being formed in a spatially addressable format on a common substrate by withdrawing aliquots of one or more member ligands from the parent ligand library and dispensing the withdrawn aliquots onto the common substrate, creating a metal-ligand complex library by combining one or more of the member ligands of the daughter library with one or more metal precursors on the common substrate, wherein the member ligand(s) and the metal precursor(s) are selected to provide the same metal-ligand complex in two separate spatially addressable regions of the common substrate from different member ligand and metal precursor combination(s), and screening at least a portion of the complex library in a reaction of interest. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the parent ligand library is provided by synthesizing the member ligands thereof, testing the synthesized member ligands to determine successful synthesis thereof, and providing the member ligands in a spatially addressable format on a common substrate prior to daughtering. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the parent ligand library is provided on a common substrate. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein each member ligand of the parent or daughter ligand library is provided in a separate vial supported by the common substrate. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate on which the daughter library is formed is a parallel reactor block, and the complex library is formed and subsequently screened in the parallel reactor block for the reaction of interest. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the daughter library comprise each member ligand of the parent ligand library. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising daughtering the metal ligand complex library to form a daughter complex library therefrom, the daughter complex library being formed in a spatially addressable format on a common substrate by withdrawing one or more aliquots from one or more members of the parent complex library and dispensing the withdrawn one or more aliquots to the daughter complex library. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the metal ligand complex library is screened without determining whether a metal ligand product forms from the combination of metal precursor and member ligand of the daughter library. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the daughter library is formed at a daughtering station, the metal ligand complex library is formed at a combining station, and the complex library is screened at a reaction station and optionally additionally at a screening station, the method further comprising transferring the daughter ligand library from the daughtering station to the combining station, transferring the complex library from the combining station to the reaction station, and optionally transferring the reacted complex library from the reaction station to the screening station. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein at least one of the transferring steps is automated. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein each of the transferring steps is automated. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein a solution comprising a member ligand of the daughter library and a solution comprising a metal precursor are combined to form homogeneous metal-ligand complexes. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction of interest is a polymerization reaction. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising activating at least a portion of the metal ligand complex library members by adding an activator to said members prior to screening. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the reaction of interest is selected from the group consisting of: carbonylation, hydroformylation, hydroxycarbonylation, hydrocarbonylation, hydroesterification, hydrogenation, transfer hydrogenation, hydrosilylation, hydroboration, hydroamination, epoxidation, aziridination, reductive amination, aryl amination, polymerization, oligomerization, C--H activation, insertion, C--H activation-insertion, C--H activation-substitution, C-halogen activation, C-halogen activation-insertion, C-halogen activation-substitution, cyclopropanation, alkene metathesis, and alkyne metathesis. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein screening at least a portion of the metal ligand complex library members in a reaction of interest includes subjecting said members to reaction conditions in parallel reactor. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said screening is performed in a parallel polymerization reactor. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein in said screening is performed in a continuous parallel feed reactor. 