In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for use in housing media cartridges, each cell having a location in the library, the library further having a moveable robot for retrieving the cartridges from the cells, a system and method for aligning the robot with a cell. A target in the library has a first, second and third portion, each with a different reflectivity. A source on the robot directs a beam toward the target portions, and the reflected beam has an intensity based on the reflectivity of the respective target portion. A sensor on the robot senses the reflected beam and generates a signal representing the reflected beam intensity. A controller receives the signal, determines a location of the target in the library relative to the robot based on changes in the reflected beam intensity, and generates a control signal for aligning the robot with the cell based on a known relationship between the target location and the cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for use in housing media cartridges, each media cartridge having a location in the library, the library further having a moveable robot for use in retrieving the cartridges from the cells, a system for aligning the robot with a cell, the system comprising: a target in the library, the target having a first target portion in a first plane, and a second target portion in a second plane different than the first plane, the first target portion having a first section with a first reflectivity and a second section with a second reflectivity, the second target portion having a third section with a third reflectivity; a source on the robot for directing a beam toward the target; an actuator for use in scanning the beam source over the first, second and third sections of the first and second target portions, wherein the beam reflects off the sections as a reflected beam; a sensor on the robot for sensing the reflected beam and generating a signal representing the intensity of the reflected beam; and a controller for receiving the signal from the sensor, determining a location of the target in the library relative to the robot based on changes in the intensity of the reflected beam, and generating a control signal for use in aligning the robot with the media cartridge based on a known relationship between the target location determined and the location of the media cartridge. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the second reflectivity is substantially different from the first reflectivity, and the third reflectivity is substantially similar to the first reflectivity. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot includes a gripper which is aligned by the controller for use in retrieving the cartridge from the cell. 4. In a data storage library having a plurality of cells for use in housing media cartridges, each cell having allocation in the library, the library further having a moveable robot for use in retrieving the cartridges from the cells, a method for aligning the robot with a cell, the method comprising: providing a target in the library, the target having a first target portion in a first plane, and a second target portion in a second plane different than the first plane, the first target portion having a first section with a first reflectivity and a second section with a second reflectivity, the second target portion having a third section with a third reflectivity; providing a source on the robot for directing a beam toward the first, second and third sections of the first and second target portions, wherein the beam reflects off the sections as a reflected beam; providing a sensor on the robot for sensing the reflected beam and generating a signal representing the intensity of the reflected beam; and providing a controller for receiving the signal from the sensor, determining a location of the target in the library relative to the robot based on changes in the intensity of the reflected beam, and generating a control signal for use in aligning the robot with the cell based on a known relationship between the target location determined and the location of the cell. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising providing an actuator for use in scanning the beam source over the first, second and third sections of the first and second target portions, wherein the beam reflects off the sections as a reflected beam. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the second reflectivity is substantially different from the first reflectivity, and the third reflectivity is substantially similar to the first reflectivity. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein the robot includes a gripper which is aligned by the controller for use in retrieving the cartridge from the cell. 