One aspect of the present invention comprises an apparatus for storing an end effector nestably adjacent a pipe to which it is attached and for moving the end effector into a working position laterally-displaced from said pipe is disclosed. Such apparatus desirably is part of the robotic welding apparatus wherein the end effector is a welding head. This apparatus comprises a pair of pipe segments in rotating end-abuttable relationship, each segment bearing a ring gear about its circumference; a pair of helical lotus petals having an in inner surface which conforms to the outer surface of the pipe segment to which each lotus petal is hingedly attached at its distal end, each lotus petal being attached hingedly at their respective distal ends to a lotus petal hinge attachment stage; drive means drivably connected to each of said ring gears for separately driving each pipe segment; and an end effector carried by said lotus petal hinge attachment stage. Each lotus petal and said lotus petal hinge attachment stage, and thus said end effector, are nestably stored adjacent their respective pipe segments. The end effector is movable to a working position laterally-displaced from said pipe by said drive means driving said pipe segments in opposite directions. The end effector is movable horizontally (Y axis motion) by driving said pipe segments differentially in the same direction.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for storing an end effector nestably adjacent a pipe to which it is attached and for moving said end effector into a working position laterally-displaced (X axis) from said pipe, which comprises: (a) a pair of pipe segments in rotating end-abuttable relationship, each segment bearing a ring gear about its circumference; (b) a pair of helical lotus petals having an inner surface which conforms to the outer surface of a pipe segment to which each lotus petal is hingedly attached at a distal end, each lotus petal being attached hingedly at their respective proximal ends to a lotus petal hinge attachment stage and carrying engaged gear segments on each lotus petal proximal end which stabilize the lotus petals with respect to each other; (c) drive means drivedly connected to each of said ring gears for separately driving each pipe segment; and (d) an end effector carried by said lotus petal hinge attachment stage, each lotus petal and said lotus petal hinge attachment stage, and thus said end effector, being nestably stored adjacent their respective pipe segments, said end effector being moveable to a working position laterally-displaced (X axis) from said pipe by said drive means rotating said pipe segments in opposite directions and being moveable horizontally (Y axis) by said drive means differentially rotating said pipe segments in the same direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said ring gears have bosses which carry hinges to which each lotus petal is attached at their distal ends. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said end effector comprises a robotic welding assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said drive means comprises two d.c. motors, one each of which drives each pipe segment. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said drive means comprises a d.c. motor coupled with said pipe segments through a clutch/brake and a differential gear. 6. A method for storing an end effector nestably adjacent a pipe to which it is attached and for moving said end effectuator into a working position laterally-displaced (X axis) from said pipe, which comprises: (a) providing an apparatus comprising: (1) a pair of pipe segments in rotating end-abuttable relationship, each segment bearing a ring gear about its circumference; (2) a pair of helical lotus petals having an inner surface which conforms to the outer surface of a pipe segment to which each lotus petal is hingedly attached at a distal end, each lotus petal being attached hingedly at their respective proximal ends to a lotus petal hinge attachment stage; (3) drive means drivedly connected to each of said ring gears for separately driving each pipe segment; and (4) an end effector carried by said lotus petal hinge attachment stage; (b) moving said end effector laterally-displaced from said pipe by rotating with said drive means said pipe segments in opposite directions; and (c) moving said end effector horizontally (Y axis) by differentially rotating with said drive means said pipe segments in the same direction. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said ring gears are provided as having bosses which carry hinges to which each lotus petal is attached at their distal ends. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein said end effector provided comprises a robotic welding assembly. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein said drive means provided comprises two d.c. motors, one each of which drives each pipe segment. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein said drive means provided comprises a d.c. motor coupled with said pipe segments through a clutch/brake and a differential gear. 11. A welding tip loading apparatus for ejecting a spent welding tip and loading a new welding tip for use by a robotic welding apparatus, which comprises: (a) a magazine which retains a plurality of welding tips; (b) a hollow loading chute disposed beneath said magazine and adapted to receive a welding tip from said magazine; (c) a remotely-actuable driver for urging a welding tip from within said magazine into said loading chute; (d) a hollow loading chamber which retains an annular reciprocating telescoping loader/ejector, said chamber in communication with said loading chute for receiving a welding tip disposed in said chute, said loader/ejector adapted to move the welding tip through said loading chamber into a position where a portion of said welding tip protrudes out of said loading chamber and in a welding use position; (e) biasing means for retaining said welding tip in its welding use position; and (f) a movable remotely-actuable connector which communicates to within said loading chamber, said connector in communication with a source of electrical power and being moveable from a position where it contacts said welding tip for providing electrical connection to the welding tip in its use position to a position where it no longer contacts said welding tip so that the welding tip can be released from said loading chamber by said loader/ejector to be replaced by another welding tip which is fed by the loader/ejector to a use position. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said robotic welding apparatus comprises a welding head having an articulated welding tip wrist attached to an arm which bears said magazine, said arm connected to an arm driver for effecting integral roll motion of said arm and wrist, said wrist connected to a wrist driver for effecting pitch motion of said wrist relative to said arm, said arm bearing said hollow loading chute and said loader/ejector, said wrist bearing said hollow loading chamber and said welding tip; whereby operation of said arm driver to effect integral roll motion to a predetermined position permits said welding tip housed within said magazine, which is spring loaded, into said loading chute; operation of said wrist driver to vertically align said loading chute with said hollow loading chamber permits said welding tip in said loading chute to pass into said loading chamber; and actuation of said loader/ejector pushes said welding tip in said loading chamber into a spent welding tip for ejection of said spent welding tip and replacement by said welding tip in said loading chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said drivers comprise d.c. electric motors and said connector is pneumatically moveable. 14. A method for ejecting a spent welding tip and loading a new welding tip in a robotic welding apparatus, which comprises: (a) providing a welding tip loading apparatus which comprises: (1) a magazine which retains a plurality of welding tips; (2) a hollow loading chute disposed beneath said magazine and adapted to receive a welding tip from said magazine; (3) a remotely-actuable driver for urging a welding tip from within said magazine into said loading chute; (4) a hollow loading chamber which retains an annular reciprocating telescoping loader/ejector, said chamber in communication with said loading chute for receiving a welding tip disposed in said chute, said loader/ejector adapted to move the welding tip through said loading chamber into a position where a portion of said welding tip protrudes out of said loading chamber and in a welding use position; (5) biasing means for retaining said welding tip in its welding use position; and (6) a movable remotely-actuable connector which communicates to within said loading chamber, said connector in communication with a source of electrical power and being moveable from a position where is contacts said welding tip for providing electrical connection to the welding tip in its use position to a position where it no longer contacts said welding tip so that the welding tip can be released from said loading chamber by said loader/ejector to be replaced by another welding tip which is fed by the loader/ejector to a use position; (7) said robotic welding apparatus comprises a welding head having an articulated welding tip wrist attached to an arm which bears said magazine, said arm connected to an arm driver for effecting integral roll motion of said arm and wrist, said wrist connected to a wrist driver for effecting pitch motion of said wrist relative to said arm, said arm bearing said hollow loading chute and said loader/ejector, said wrist bearing said hollow loading chamber and said welding tip; (b) activating said arm driver to effect integral roll motion of said arm and wrist to a predetermined position for permitting said welding tip housed within said magazine, which is spring loaded, to pass into said loading chute; (c) activating said wrist driver to vertically align said loading chute with said hollow loading chamber for permitting said welding tip in said loading chute to pass into said loading chamber; (d) moving said connector to a position where it no longer contacts said spent welding tip in its use position; (e) activating said loader/ejector for pushing said welding tip in said loading chamber into a spent electrode for ejection of said spent welding tip and replacement by said welding tip in said loading chute; and (f) moving said connector to a position where it contacts said replacement welding electrode. 15. A robotic welding apparatus adapted to be placed at the bottom head of a nuclear reactor pressure vessel (RPV) for effecting weld build-ups and repairs, which comprises: (a) an upper guide can stationarily-attached to a first tube of a pair of annular telescoping lower tubes; (b) an annular moveable water seal can which houses said pair of telescoping lower tubes, and is moveable from a position where, when filled with gas, it encases said telescoping lower tubes and keeps water out so that said apparatus can be lowered in a water-filled RPV to its bottom head, to a position where it is retracted upwardly to expose said telescoping lower tubes when the RPV is drained of water; (c) a water seal can driver for moving said water seal can; (d) an elongate clamp tool which firmly retains the second of said pair of lower tubes against the RPV bottom head; (e) a driver for extending the first telescoping tube away from the second telescoping tube; and (f) a robotic welding assembly attached to said first telescoping tube in a nested position against said first telescoping tube when said water seal can encases said telescoping lower tubes and moveable laterally away from said first telescoping tube when said water seal can is in its retracted position. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said welding assembly includes the apparatus of claim 1. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said end effector includes the apparatus of claim 11. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said end effector includes the apparatus of claim 12. 19. A method for effecting weld build-ups and repairs at the bottom head of a nuclear reactor pressure vessel (RPV) which includes upper and lower apertured core plates and a plurality of control rod stube tube and housing assemblies, which comprises: (a) lowering a robotic welding apparatus down into said RPV containing water through said upper and lower apertured core plates, said welding apparatus comprising: (1) an upper guide can stationarily-attached to a first tube of a pair of annular telescoping lower tubes; (2) a gas-filled, moveable annular moveable water seal can which encases said pair of telescoping lower tubes to keep water out while said apparatus is lowered into said water-filled RPV to its bottom head; (3) a water seal can driver for moving said water seal can; (4) an elongate clamp tool which is capable of firmly retaining the second of said pair of lower tubes against the RPV bottom head; (5) a driver for extending the first telescoping tube away from the second telescoping tube; and (6) a robotic welding assembly attached to said first telescoping tube in a nested position against said first telescoping tube when said water seal can encases said telescoping lower tubes and moveable laterally away from said first telescoping tube when said water seal can is in its retracted position; (b) resting said second lower tube on the end of a stube tube with said housing penetrating withing the annulus of said second lower tube; (c) engaging said clamp tool to firmly retain said second lower tube against the end of said stub tube; (d) draining water out of said RPV; (e) retracting said water seal can upwardly to expose said telescoping tubes and said welding head; and (f) engaging said welding head to effect weld build-ups or repairs. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said welding head is moved to a working position according to the method of claim 7. 