A system, method and apparatus for controlling, via a closed-form forward displacement computation, the position and orientation of a movable platform of a parallel mechanism. A movable platform is supported above a base platform by a plurality of parallel support legs such as linear actuators. The dimensions of the base platform and the movable platform, as well the lengths of the support legs, are provided to a control system. The control system is operative to compute at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of the geometry of a polyhedron (an octahedron for the disclosed embodiments) formed by the movable platform, the base platform, and the support legs. The control system determines a final position and orientation of the movable platform by eliminating imaginary roots of the closed-form solutions and roots which would result in discontinuous paths of travel for the movable platform. A novel special 6-6 parallel mechanism is also disclosed. The control system is suitable for controlling known 3-3 or 6-3 Stewart platforms in a novel manner, as well as controlling the novel special 6-6 parallel mechanism. The special 6-6 parallel mechanism is distinguished from a general 6-6 by the fact that it is geometrically reducible to an octahedron, and therefore it has a simple geometry, even though its legs possess distinct connections. Also disclosed is a method for reducing the novel special 6-6 parallel mechanism to a Stewart platform equivalent, which is then controlled by the disclosed closed-form forward displacement control system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motion system capable of motion in six degrees of freedom, comprising: a base platform providing at least three points of connection in a first plane; a movable platform providing at least three points of connection in a second plane; at least six linearly extensible support members extending from said points of connection in said base platform to said points of connection on said movable platform; coupling means for providing said linearly extensible support members with at least two rotation degrees of freedom at said points of connection; and closed-form forward displacement control means, coupled to said linearly extensible support members, (1) for determining, in response to selective changes in the lengths of said linearly extensible members, at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of the geometry of a structure formed by said movable platform, said base platform, and said linearly extensible support members, such structure being reducible to an equivalent octahedron, and (2) for providing control signals in response to said solutions, said control signals being used to produce predictable motion of said movable platform. 2. The motion system of claim 1, wherein said points of connection in said first plane and said points of connection in said second plane are distinct. 3. The motion system of claim 1, wherein there are exactly six distinct points of connection in said first plane and exactly six distinct points of connection in said second plane, wherein the resultant mechanism is a special 6-6 platform. 4. The motion system of claim 1, wherein said linearly extensible support members comprise actuatable linearly extensible members for a motion producing system. 5. The motion system of claim 4, wherein said system comprises the motion system for a flight or motion simulator. 6. The motion system of claim 4, wherein said system comprises a heavy object lifting machine. 7. The motion system of claim 4, wherein said actuatable linearly extensible members comprise hydraulic cylinders. 8. The motion system of claim 1, wherein said linearly extensible support members comprise passive force resistant members for a motion and force determination system. 9. The motion system of claim 1, wherein said closed-form forward displacement control means comprises: transducer means for acquiring the lengths of lines of said structure, said lines comprising virtual octahedron edges extending between said movable platform and said base platform; computing means responsive to said acquired line lengths for computing at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of the geometry of said structure; and determining means responsive to said at least one closed-form forward displacement solution for determining the position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 10. The motion system of claim 9, wherein said computing means provides a plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions, some of said solutions corresponding to imaginary solutions or to impossible discontinuous paths of travel of said movable platform, and further comprising: means for storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; means responsive to said stored path of travel data for identifying a particular one of said plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions which corresponds to a real, continuous path of travel of said movable platform; and means for providing said identified particular one of said closed-form forward displacement solutions as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 11. The motion system of claim 1, further comprising: means for providing Cartesian coordinate position commands indicative of a commanded Cartesian coordinate position for said movable platform; reverse displacement control means responsive to said Cartesian coordinate position commands for providing leg length commands; leg control means responsive to said leg length commands for actuating selective changes in the lengths of said linearly extensible support members; and means for sensing the lengths of said linearly extensible support members and for providing actual leg length signals; and wherein said closed-form forward displacement control means is responsive to said actual leg length signals for determining and providing Cartesian coordinates of the actual position and orientation of said movable platform as feedback to said Cartesian coordinate position command means, thereby forming a closed-loop Cartesian controller for said motion system. 12. A motion system capable of motion in six degrees of freedom, comprising: a base platform comprising at least three points defining a base plane, said three points in said base plane defining a first triangle; a movable platform providing at least three points defining a second plane, said three points in said second plane defining a second triangle; at least six linearly extensible support members extending between said base platform and said movable platform, each of said support members being actuatable for a motion-producing system and/or alternatively being passively-force resistant for a motion-sensing system, each of said support members being connected (1) from a first single point of connection on a line defined by any two of said at least three points in said first plane on said base platform, said first single point of connection being distinct from any other first single point of connection of any other support member, (2) to a corresponding second single point of connection on a line defined by any two of said at least three points in said second plane on said second triangle, said second single point of connection being distinct from any other second single point of connection of any other support member, for imparting or allowing motion of said movable platform relative to said base platform in accordance with selective changes in the lengths of said support members, at least three of said support members being connected at the apices of said first triangle and at least three of said support members being connected at the apices of said second triangle; and control means, coupled to said linearly extensible support members, for actuating or responsive to selective changes in the lengths of said support members, and for producing predictable movement of said movable platform when said support members are actuatable or sensing movement of said movable platform when said support members are passively force-resistant. 13. The motion system of claim 12, wherein said system is utilized in a flight or motion simulator, and further comprising means on said movable platform for experiencing motion effects produced by movement of said movable platform. 14. The motion system of claim 12, wherein said system is utilized as a force/torque sensor, further comprising means for sensing the lengths of said support members, and wherein said control means is responsive to detect changes in the lengths of said support members by said sensing means and to compute forces and/or torques applied to the movable platform in response to said detected changes. 15. The motion system of claim 12, wherein each of three of said support members are connected from an apex of said first triangle on said base platform to an apex of said second triangle of said movable platform. 16. The motion system of claim 12, wherein each of three of said support members are connected from an apex of said first triangle on said base platform to a point along a side of said second triangle of said movable platform. 17. The motion system of claim 12, wherein each of three of said support members are connected from an apex of either said first triangle of said base platform or said second triangle of said movable platform to a distinct point of connection on a line created by two of the points defining said triangles but not on the sides of said triangles. 18. The motion system of claim 12, wherein said control means comprises closed-form forward displacement control means for determining at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of the geometry of a structure formed by said movable platform, said base platform, and said linearly extensible support members, such structure being reducible to an equivalent octahedron, for closed-loop control of the position and orientation of said movable platform. 19. The motion system of claim 18, wherein said closed-form forward displacement control means comprises: transducer means for acquiring the lengths of lines of said structure, said lines comprising virtual octahedron edges extending between said movable platform and said base platform; computing means responsive to said acquired line lengths for computing at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of said structure; and determining means responsive to said at least one closed-form forward displacement solution for determining the position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 20. The motion system of claim 19, wherein said computing means provides a plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions, some of said solutions corresponding to imaginary solutions or to impossible discontinuous paths of travel of said movable platform, and further comprising: means for storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; means responsive to said stored path of travel data for identifying a particular one of said plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions which corresponds to a real, continuous path of travel of said movable platform; and means for providing said identified particular one of said closed-form forward displacement solutions as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 21. An apparatus for controlling and/or determining the position and orientation of a movable platform relative to a base platform, having linear extensible members extending between said movable platform and said base platform, given predetermined dimensions for said movable platform, said base platform, and lengths of lines of a structure formed by said movable platform, said base platform, and said linearly extensible support members, said structure being reducible to an equivalent octahedron, said lines comprising virtual octahedron edges extending between said movable platform and said base platform, the apparatus comprising: transducer means for acquiring the lengths of said lines; computing means responsive to said acquired line lengths for computing at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of said structure; and determining means responsive to said at least one closed-form forward displacement solution for determining the position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said linear extensible members are co-linear with said lines extending between said movable platform and said base platform, and said lengths of said lines are provided from linear position transducers associated with said linear extensible members. 23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said apparatus is a 3-3 or a 6-3 Stewart-type platform having said linear extensible members extending from the apices of either said movable platform or the apices of said base platform, wherein said apices define a triangle. 24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said apparatus is a special 6-6 parallel mechanism, with said linear extensible members extending between distinct points of connection on said movable platform and distinct points of connection on said base platform. 25. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said base platform comprises at least three points in a plane defining a first triangle, and wherein said movable platform comprises at least three points in a second plane defining a second triangle, and wherein there are six of said linear extensible members. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein each of three of said linear extensible members are connected from an apex of said first triangle on said base platform to an apex of said second triangle on said movable platform. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein each of three of said linear extensible members are connected from an apex of said second triangle on said movable platform to a point along a side of said first triangle on said movable platform. 28. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said computing means provides a plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions, some of said solutions corresponding to imaginary solutions or to impossible discontinuous paths of travel of said movable platform, and further comprising: means for storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; means responsive to said stored path of travel data for identifying a particular one of said plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions which corresponds to a real, continuous path of travel of said movable platform; and means for providing said identified particular one of said closed-form forward displacement solutions as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 29. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said structure comprises a plurality of apices defined by the intersection of four lines extending either along the sides of said movable platform, along the sides of said base platform, or from a point of connection on an opposite platform, and wherein said computing means is operative for: (1) determining constants corresponding to spherical four-bar linkages associated with each apex of said base platform; (2) utilizing said constants, determining a polynomial associated with each of said spherical four-bar linkages of said base platform; (3) assembling three polynomial equations in three variables representing angular input/output relationships for said spherical four-bar linkages, each of said three polynomial equations being bi-quadric and containing two of said three variables, (4) obtaining an eliminant polynomial in one of said three variables whose roots comprise all possible values of said one variable which exist in all possible solution sets of said three variables for said three bi-quadric polynomials; (5) calculating all real roots of said eliminant polynomial; (6) identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial based on predetermined root selection criteria; and (7) providing said identified one real root of said eliminant as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, further comprising means for storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform, and wherein said predetermined root selection criteria comprises a computed continuous path of travel for said movable platform, and wherein said computing means is operative to identify said one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial by comparing all of said real roots to said stored path of travel data and select only one of said real roots which corresponds to said continuous path of travel. 31. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising means for determining the Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform utilizing said at least one closed-form forward displacement solution. 32. A method for controlling and/or determining, with a computer, the position and orientation of a movable platform relative to a base platform, having linear extensible members extending between said movable platform and said base platform, given predetermined dimensions for said movable platform, said base platform, and lengths of lines of a structure formed by said movable platform, said base platform, and said linearly extensible support members, said structure being reducible to an equivalent octahedron, said lines comprising virtual octahedron edges extending between said movable platform and said base platform, the method comprising the steps of: (1) acquiring the lengths of said lines; (2) utilizing said acquired line lengths, computing at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of the geometry of said structure; and (3) utilizing said at least one closed-form forward displacement solution, determining the position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein said linear extensible members are co-linear with said lines extending between said movable platform and said base platform, and said lengths of said lines are provided from linear position transducers associated with said linear extensible members. 34. The method claim 32, wherein said apparatus is a 3-3 or a 6-3 Stewart-type platform having said linear extensible members extending from the apices of either said movable platform or the apices of said base platform, wherein said apices define a triangle. 35. The method of claim 32, wherein a plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions are determined, some of said solutions corresponding to imaginary solutions or to impossible discontinuous paths of travel of said movable platform, and further comprising the steps of: storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; utilizing said stored path of travel data, identifying a particular one of said plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions which corresponds to a real, continuous path of travel of said movable platform; and providing said identified particular one of said closed-form forward displacement solutions as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 36. The method of claim 32, wherein said structure comprises a plurality of apices defined by the intersection of four lines extending either along the sides of said movable platform, along the sides of said base platform, or from a point of connection on an opposite platform, and wherein the step of computing at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of the geometry of said structure comprises the steps of: (1) determining constants corresponding to spherical four-bar linkages associated with each apex of said base platform; (2) utilizing said constants, determining a polynomial associated with each of said spherical four-bar linkages of said base platform; (3) assembling three polynomial equations in three variables representing angular input/output relationships for said spherical four-bar linkages, each of said three polynomial equations being bi-quadric and containing two of said three variables, (4) obtaining an eliminant polynomial in one of said three variables whose roots comprise all possible values of said one variable which exist in all possible solution sets of said three variables for said three bi-quadric polynomials; (5) calculating all real roots of said eliminant polynomial; (6) identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial based on predetermined root selection criteria; (7) providing said identified one real root of said eliminant as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform; (8) determining the other two angular coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform; and (9) responsive to said angular coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform, determining the Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein said predetermined root selection criteria comprises a computed continuous path of travel for said movable platform, and wherein the step of identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial comprises the steps of: (1) storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; (2) utilizing said stored path of travel data, comparing each of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial to said stored path of travel data; (3) eliminating any of said roots which correspond to a path of travel for said movable platform outside a predetermined range of error values for said one angular coordinate of said movable platform; and (4) providing only a remaining one of said roots as said identified one real root. 38. A method for controlling and determining, with a computer, the position and orientation of a Stewart-type platform, given predetermined dimensions for a movable platform having a predetermined number of apices, a base platform having a predetermined number of apices, and leg lengths of variable positionable linear actuating means extending between said movable platform and said base platform, said leg lengths being determined by corresponding linear position transducers, comprising the steps of: (1) acquiring from said linear position transducers the lengths of said variably positionable linear actuating means to obtain known leg lengths; (2) storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; (3) utilizing said known leg lengths, determining the constants corresponding to spherical four-bar linkages associated with each apex of said base platform; (4) utilizing said constants, determining a four-bar polynomial associated with each of said spherical four-bar linkages of said base platform; (5) determining an eliminant polynomial corresponding to each of said four-bar polynomials; (6) calculating all real roots of said eliminant polynomial; (7) identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial based on a comparison of said real roots to said stored path of travel data; and (8) providing to a controller said identified one real root of said eliminant as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform, said controller being adapted to use said one real root to generate positional feedback information and to control the position of said movable platform in response to said positional feedback information. 39. The method of claim 38 wherein said stored path of travel is utilized to compute a projected continuous path of travel for said movable platform, and wherein the step of identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial comprises the steps of: (1) comparing each of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial to said stored path of travel data; (2) eliminating any of said roots which correspond to a path of travel for said movable platform outside a predetermined range of error values for said one angular coordinate of said movable platform; and (3) providing only a remaining one of said roots as said identified one real root. 40. The method of claim 38, further comprising the step of utilizing said one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform to determine remaining angular coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 41. The method of claim 40, further comprising the step utilizing said angular coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform to determine Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform, and providing said Cartesian coordinates to said controller as positional feedback. 42. A method for controlling and determining, with a computer, the position and orientation of a Stewart-type equivalent parallel mechanism, given predetermined dimensions for a movable platform, a base platform, and leg lengths of variably positionable linear actuating members extending between said movable platform and said base platform, said leg lengths being determined by corresponding linear position transducers, comprising the steps of: (1) acquiring from said linear position transducers the lengths of said variably positionable linear actuating members to obtain known leg lengths; (2) storing in memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; (3) assembling twelve edge lengths of a virtual octahedron corresponding to said movable platform, said base platform, and said known leg lengths; (4) utilizing said twelve edge lengths, determining spherical four-bar linkages associated with the apices of said base platform; (5) computing a set of constant coefficients of an input-output relation corresponding to each of said spherical four-bar linkages associated with said base platform apices; (6) assembling three polynomial equations in three variables representing angular input/output relationships for said spherical four-bar linkages, each of said three polynomial equations being bi-quadric and containing two of said three variables, (7) obtaining an eliminant polynomial in one of said three variables whose roots comprise all possible values of said one variable which exist in all possible solution sets of said three variables for said three bi-quadric polynomials; (8) calculating all real roots of said eliminant polynomial; (9) identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial based on predetermined root selection criteria; (10) providing said identified one real root of said eliminant as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform; (11) determining the remaining angular coordinates of said movable platform utilizing said first calculated coordinate; (12) determining Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform utilizing said angular coordinates; and (13) providing said Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform as positional feedback to a controller adapted to control the position of said movable platform in response to said positional feedback. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the method is carried out in a controller for the parallel mechanism in real time, and further comprising the steps of: (14) receiving a positional command corresponding to a desired end position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform; and (15) generating drive signals to said linear actuating member to cause said movable platform to begin movement in a commanded direction relative to said base platform; periodically carrying out the steps (1)-(15) to obtain positional feedback as to the position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform during movement; removing said drive signals when said movable platform reaches said desired end position. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the Stewart-type mechanism is utilized as the motion system of a flight simulator, and wherein said positional commands are provided to generate accelerations, decelerations, and orientations of said movable platform relative to said base platform to simulate movement of an aircraft. 45. A system for controlling and determining the position and orientation of a Stewart-type platform, given predetermined dimensions for a movable platform, a base platform, and leg lengths of variably positionable linear actuating members extending between said movable platform and said base platform, comprising: transducer means for acquiring the lengths of said variably positionable linear actuating members to obtain known leg lengths; means for storing in memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; means for assembling data corresponding to the edge lengths of an octahedron formed by said movable platform, said base platform, and said known leg lengths; means responsive to said edge length data for determining spherical four-bar linkages associated with the apices of said base platform; means for computing a set of constant coefficients of an input-output relation corresponding to each of said spherical four-bar linkages associated with said base platform apices; means for assembling three polynomial equations in three variables representing angular input/output relationships for said spherical four-bar linkages, each of said three polynomial equations being bi-quadric and containing two of said three variables, means for obtaining an eliminant polynomial in one of said three variables whose roots comprise all possible values of said one variables which exist in all possible solution sets of said three variables for said three bi-quadric polynomials; means for calculating all real roots of said eliminant polynomial; means for identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial based on predetermined root selection criteria; means for providing said identified one real root of said eliminant as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform; means responsive to said one angular coordinate for determining the remaining angular coordinates of said movable platform; means responsive to said angular coordinates for determining Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform; and feedback means for providing said Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform as positional feedback to a controller adapted to control the position of said movable platform in response to said positional feedback. 46. The system of claim 45, wherein said path of travel data storing means, said edge length data assembling means, said spherical four-bar linkage determining means, said coefficient computing means, said polynomial providing means, said eliminant polynomial means, said root calculating means, said root identifying means, said angular coordinate determining means, said Cartesian coordinate determining means, and said feedback means comprises a programmed computer. 47. The system of claim 46, further comprising: means for receiving from an external controller a positional command corresponding to a desired end position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform; reverse displacement control means responsive to said positional command for determining commanded leg lengths; means responsive to said commanded leg lengths for generating drive signals to said linear actuating members to cause said movable platform to begin movement in a commanded direction relative to said base platform; means for causing said programmed computer to periodically provide said Cartesian coordinates to said external controller as positional feedback as to the position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform during movement; and means associated with said programmed computer for removing said drive signals when said movable platform reaches said desired end position. 48. The system of claim 47, wherein the Stewart-type platform is utilized as the motion system of a flight simulator, and wherein said positional commands are provided by said external controller to generate accelerations, decelerations, and orientations of said movable platform relative to said base platform to simulate movement of an aircraft. 49. A method for controlling and/or determining the position and orientation of a movable platform relative to a base platform, with each one of six linear extensible members connected between a distinct point of connection on said base platform and a distinct point of connection on said movable platform, given predetermined dimensions for said movable platform and said base platform, the method comprising the steps of: (1) determining an equivalent octahedron structure based on a structure comprising said linear extensible members, said movable platform, and said base platform, the equivalent octahedron structure including virtual lines extending between said movable platform and said base platform; (2) acquiring the lengths of said virtual lines; (3) utilizing said acquired line lengths, computing at least one closed-form forward displacement solution of the geometry of said equivalent geometric structure; and (4) utilizing said at least one closed-form forward displacement solution, determining the position and orientation of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein said platform has said linear extensible members extending between apices on said movable platform and apices on said base platform. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein a plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions are determined, some of said solutions corresponding to discontinuous paths of travel of said movable platform, and further comprising the steps of: storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; utilizing said stored path of travel data, identifying a particular one of said plurality of closed-form forward displacement solutions which corresponds to a real, continuous path of travel of said movable platform; and providing said identified particular one of said closed-form forward displacement solutions as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform. 52. The method of claim 49, wherein said solvable geometric structure is defined by a plurality of apices defined by the intersection of four lines extending either along the sides of said movable platform, along the sides of said base platform, or from a point of connection on an opposite platform, and wherein the step of computing at least one closed-form forward displacement solution comprises the steps of: (1) determining constants corresponding to spherical four-bar linkages associated with each apex of said base platform; (2) utilizing said constants, determining a polynomial associated with each of said spherical four-bar linkages of said base platform; (3) assembling three polynomial equations in three variables representing angular input/output relationships for said spherical four-bar linkages, each of said three polynomial equations being bi-quadric and containing two of said three variables, (4) obtaining an eliminant polynomial in one of said three variables whose roots comprise all possible values of said one variable which exist in all possible solution sets of said three variables for said three bi-quadric polynomials; (5) calculating all real roots of said eliminant polynomial; (6) identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial based on predetermined root selection criteria; (7) providing said identified one real root of said eliminant as one angular coordinate of said movable platform relative to said base platform; (8) determining the other two angular coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform; and (9) in response to said angular coordinates of said movable platform relative to said base platform, determining the Cartesian coordinates of said movable platform. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein said predetermined root selection criteria comprises a computed continuous path of travel for said movable platform, and wherein the step of identifying one of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial comprises the steps of: (1) storing in a memory data corresponding to a path of travel for said movable platform; (2) utilizing said stored path of travel data, comparing each of said real roots of said eliminant polynomial to said stored path of travel data; (3) eliminating any of said roots which correspond to a path of travel for said movable platform outside a predetermined range of error values for a coordinate of said movable platform; and (4) providing only a remaining one of said roots as said identified one real root. 54. A control system for use in a closed-loop Cartesian controller for a parallel mechanism having a movable platform, a base platform, and a plurality of linearly extensible legs supporting said movable platform relative to said base platform, comprising: means for receiving Cartesian coordinate position commands indicative of a commanded Cartesian coordinate position and orientation for said movable platform from a higher level control source external to said control system; reverse displacement control means responsive to said Cartesian coordinate position commands for providing leg length commands corresponding to a desired length for said legs; leg control means responsive to said leg length commands for actuating selective changes in the lengths of said legs; means for sensing the lengths of said legs and for providing actual leg length signals; and closed-form forward displacement control means responsive to said actual leg length signals for determining and providing Cartesian coordinate actual position and orientation signals of said movable platform as feedback to said higher level control source, thereby forming a closed-loop Cartesian controller for said movable platform. 55. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said linearly extensible support members include actuatable linearly extensible members for a motion producing system. 56. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said linearly extensible support members include passive force resistant members for a motion and force determination system. 57. The apparatus of claim 1 or 21, wherein said linearly extensible support members include force sensing members for a motion and force determination system. 58. The method of claims 32 or 49, wherein said linearly extensible support members include actuatable linearly extensible members for a motion producing system. 59. The method of claim 32 or 49, wherein said linearly extensible support members include passive force resistant members for a motion and force determination system. 60. The method of claim 32 or 49, wherein said linearly extensible support members include force sensing members for a motion and force determination system. 