A probe used for programming a robot arm in order to perform a cutting operation on a work-piece. During the programming operation, the probe is attached to the robot arm and moved around the profile of a test-piece. An electric lamp is provided for indicating contact between the probe and the test piece. Additional circuitry including an electric lamp is provided for indicating when the body of the probe and a pin (4) having an end tip (8) which actually forms the contracting portion of the probe are misaligned.
Claims We claim: 1. A probe assembly including a probe, for indicating both physical contact with an electrically conductive workpiece and misalignment of said probe in a misalignment direction, said probe assembly comprising: an elongate electrically conducting body having at least one end; an electrically conducting pin extending beyond said at least one end of said body, one of said pin and body received into a hollow portion of the other of said pin and body; non-conducting resilient means for mounting said pin with respect to said body and permitting movement of said pin with respect to said body in said misalignment direction; first electrical means for indicating electrical contact between said pin and said workpiece; and second electrical means for indicating electrical contact between said pin and said body during misalignment. 2. A probe assembly according to claim 1, wherein said electrically conducting body comprises a hollow portion, and thus is in the form of a hollow body, and said electrically conducting pin is received into said hollow portion. 3. A probe assembly according to claim 2 in which said hollow body and pin are of cylindrical form. 4. A probe assembly according to claim 3 in which said pin is located within said hollow body by two resilient annular washers which comprise rubber `O` rings. 5. A probe assembly according to claim 2 in which said pin incorporates an annular electrically conducting ring at a position adjacent to the point at which said pin emerges from said hollow body. 6. A probe assembly according to claim 2 further comprising an electrically conducting cap, slideably mounted on a portion of said pin remote from said hollow body, an electrically conducting collar secured around said pin adjacent to said cap and electrically insulated from said pin and means for resiliently biasing said cap away from said collar. 7. A probe assembly according to claim 6 in which the means for resiliently biasing the cap away from the collar comprises a rubber `O` ring. 8. A probe assembly according to claim 6 further comprising a thin rubber gaiter located between said hollow body and said pin at the point of emergence of said pin from said hollow body. 9. A probe assembly according to claim 6 and including electrical means for indicating contact between said cap and said collar. 10. A probe assembly according to claim 2 further comprising a thin rubber gaiter located between said hollow body and said pin at the point of emergence of said pin from the hollow body. 