The invention is a counter-balanced, multiple cable construction crane. The apparatus for hoisting payloads comprises a crane having a lifting segment and a counter-balanced segment. The lifting segment comprises an end effector and three cables. One end of each cable attaches to a different winding device located on the lifting segment, and the other end of each cable attaches to a different point on the end effector, such that the three cables have a theoretical point of convergence, this point corresponding with a center of mass of the payload. Three controls command rotation of the winding device to a predetermined position. Accordingly, the crane provides precise and autonomous positioning of the payload without human guidance. Two controls position the counter-balancing segment to offset the overturning moment which arises during the lifting of heavy payloads.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for hoisting and moving a payload having a center of mass, comprising: (a) a lifting means comprising an end effector and three cables; each cable having a winding end and a working end; each winding end attached to a different point of the lifting means; and each working end attached to a different point of the end effector such that the three cables each lift the payload and converge toward the center of mass of the payload; (b) a counter-balancing means comprising a first boom, a first cable, a second cable, a first means for coiling, a second means for coiling, and a counterweight; the first boom having a first end and a second end, the first end of the first boom rotatably joined to the foundation, the second end of the first boom rotatably joined to the second boom; the second boom having a first end and a second end; the first cable having a working end and a coiling end, the working end of the first cable attached to the second end of the first boom, the coiling end of the first cable attached to the first means for coiling; the first means for coiling attached to the foundation; the second cable having a working end and a coiling end, the working end of the second cable attached to the first end of the second boom, the coiling end of the second cable attached to the second means for coiling; the second means for coiling attached to the foundation; the counterweight being attached to the second end of the second boom; (c) a foundation having a top and a bottom and two opposite ends; the lifting means joined to one of the two opposite ends of the foundation; and the counter-balancing means joined to the opposite end which is not joined to the lifting means; and (d) a transporting means connected to the bottom of the foundation, the transporting means providing for transportation of the apparatus. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a first pulley attached to the top of the foundation the first pulley guiding the first cable. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first means for coiling further comprises a first coiling drum, a first rotating means, and a first control means, the first control means driving the first rotating means such that the first coiling drum rotates and coils the first cable to a predetermined position, whereby the first boom may be raised or lowered. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the second means for coiling further comprises a second coiling drum, a second rotating means, and a second control means, the second control means driving the second rotating means such that the second coiling drum rotates and coils the second cable to a predetermined position, whereby the second boom may be positioned as desired. 5. An apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the lifting means further comprises a third boom, a third cable, and a third means for coiling; the third boom having a first end and a second end; the first end of the third boom joined to the foundation; the third cable having a working end and a coiling end, the working end of the third cable attached to the second end of the third boom, the coiling end of the third cable attached to the third means for coiling; the third means for coiling attached to the foundation. 6. An apparatus according to claim 5, further comprising: a second pulley attached to the top of the foundation, the second pulley guiding the third tension means. 7. An apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the third means for coiling further comprises a third coiling drum, a third rotating means, and a third control means, the third control means driving the third rotating means such that the third coiling drum rotates and coils the third cable to a predetermined position, whereby the third boom may be raised or lowered. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the lifting means further comprises three winding means; each winding means comprising a winding drum, a turning means, and a regulating means; each winding end of each suspension means attached to a different winding drum; each regulating means driving a different turning means such that each winding drum rotates and winds the attached suspension means to a predetermined position, whereby precise and autonomous positioning of the payload is provided. 9. An apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the end effector further comprises three positioning means; each working end of each suspension means attached to a different positioning means, the positioning means providing a plurality of points of attachment for each suspension means. 10. An apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the end effector further comprises attaching means such that the end effector grasps the payload. 11. An apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising: a third pulley means attached to the second end of the third boom, the third pulley means guiding one of the three suspension means. 12. An apparatus for hoisting and moving a payload having a center of mass, comprising: a lifting means; and a counter-balancing means comprising a first boom, a first cable, a second cable, a first means for coiling, a second means for coiling, and a counterweight; the first boom having a first end and a second end, the first end of the first boom rotatably joined to the foundation, the second end of the first boom rotatably joined to the second boom; the second boom having a first end and a second end; the first cable having a working end and a coiling end, the working end of the first cable attached to the second end of the first boom, the coiling end of the first cable attached to the first means for coiling; the first means for coiling attached to the foundation; the second cable having a working end and a coiling end, the working end of the second cable attached to the first end of the second boom, the coiling end of the second cable attached to the second means for coiling; the second means for coiling attached to the foundation; the counterweight being attached to the second end of the second boom. 13. An apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the lifting means further comprises an end effector and three cables; each cable having a winding end and a working end; each winding end attached to a different point of the lifting means; and each working end attached to a different point of the end effector means such that the three cables each lift the payload and converge toward the center of mass of the payload. 14. An apparatus according to claim 13, further comprising: a foundation having a top and a bottom and two opposite ends; the lifting means joined to one of the two opposite ends of the foundation; and the counter-balancing means joined to the opposite end which is not joined to the lifting means. 15. An apparatus according to claim 14, further comprising: a transporting means connected to the bottom of the foundation, the transporting means providing for transportation of the apparatus. 