Cable handling and preparation apparatus comprising a cable source (12), cable stripping and crimping means (14), length determining means, robotic control means (13), cable guidance (43) and marking (11) means and cable conveying means (16). The arrangement is such that at least one cable or possibly more can be selectively drawn from a source comprising several powered cable reels (18) holding cables of different size by the robotic control means (13), subjected to processing by the stripping and crimping means (14) and subjected to marking, preferably laser marking, along its length, the prepared cable simultaneously and progressively being conveyed from the apparatus by the conveying means (16).
Claims We claim: 1. Cable handling and preparation apparatus comprising: a cable source; robotic control means for selectively drawing at least one cable form the source; means for stripping and crimping said at least one cable; means for determining a length of the cable, said length determining means ensuring an adequate length of cable is subjected to a cable gripping an crimping process by said stripping and crimping means; means for guiding the cable; an ultra-violet laser marking apparatus for marking said at least one cable along a length thereof; means for shielding a laser beam generated by said laser marking apparatus; and means for conveying said at least one cable simultaneously and progressively through the apparatus, said cable guiding means comprising a guide shoe having a generally vee-shaped guide element adapted to receive and guide a range of cables of different sizes therein, the guide shoe being disposed on a side of the cable opposite to the laser marking apparatus for engaging the cable being drawn past the laser marking apparatus under tension and urging the cable to a focal point of the laser beam, the vee-shaped guide element providing vertical and horizontal positioning of the moving cable as it passes the laser marking apparatus. 2. Apparatus according to claim in which the cable source includes a series of cable reels having powered de-reeling capability and further includes take-up members comprising at least spaced first and second pulleys around which the cable passes, the spacing of the pulleys being variable to allow the take-up members to take up more or less cable as required. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 in which at least one first pulley is urged away from at least one second pulley by gravity. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which the generally vee-shaped guide element comprises a groove extending longitudinally of the cable, the groove having a curved longitudinal axis to direct the cable in a curved path past the laser beam. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 4 in which the guide shoe is moveable between a range of positions of use to ensure that a face to be marked of a cable of each size is positioned at the focal point of the laser beam. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 4 in which the guide shoe is moveable between a retracted position disengaged form the cable and said range of positions of use. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 or 4 further comprising tubular laser shielding means on the laser marking apparatus surrounding the laser beam, said tubular laser shielding means being engageable in an annular groove formed in the cable guidance means to substantially enclose the laser beam during laser marking. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, further including a protective sleeve member associated with each of said cables, said protective sleeve member being constrained to prevent the bend radius to which said cables are subjected, from reducing below a minimum value. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8 including an interface arrangement operative between the cable source and the robotic control means, the arrangement including a park rail having means for releasably holding the leading end of each cable and of each protective sleeve member, each protective sleeve member including means for engaging the park rail and means for simultaneously engaging the robotic control means during cable removal form and replacement to the park rail. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9 in which the means on the protective sleeve member for engaging both the park rail and robotic control means comprises spaced grooves to be gripped by jaws on both the park rail and robotic control means. 11. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which said conveying means comprises dual longitudinal conveyor belts having adjacent surfaces in close abutment to engage and convey cable from a remainder of said apparatus without imposing a significant tension on the cable emerging from the remainder of the apparatus. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11 in which the longitudinal speed of the belts is in the range of 95 to 99% speed of cable leaving the remainder of the apparatus. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12 in which one end of the cable is held at a position to one side of the conveying means such that a loop of cable engages between the belts and is conveyed by the conveying means form the remainder of the apparatus. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13 in which, once the cable has been cut and separated from the cable at the source, the cut end is conveyed along the conveying means until tension form a held end of the cable unwinds the loop and the cable is substantially fully extended whereupon said tension draws the cut end sideways and outwardly from between the belts for the complete cable to fall into a receptacle disposed alongside the belts. 15. Apparatus according to claim 11 in which the opposed belts are in spaced relationship for part of their length to assist entry of the cable therebetween. 16. Apparatus according to claim 3 in which said at least one first pulley is rotatably mounted on a swingable arm. 17. Apparatus according to claim 16 in which swinging movement of the arm is used to control operation of a powered de-reeling motor to drive the cable reel. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17 in which the position of the swingable arm operates at least an on switch and an off switch spaced therefrom on the arc of movement of the arm. 19. Apparatus according to claim 16 including motor speed control member given a speed signal to the motor dependant upon the position of the swingable arm on its arc of movement. 