A processor for centrifugal processing of semiconductor wafers and similar units. The processor is specially constructed to provide an automatically extendible and retractable rotor head to allow automated loading and unloading of wafers. The processor includes a novel shaft assembly construction which includes an axially extendible shaft controlled using pressurized fluid. The pressurized fluid is supplied to the shaft assembly by a pressure supply which is controllably extendable and retractable for engagement with the shaft assembly when rotation is stopped. The shaft assembly also preferably incorporates an axial locking mechanism which holds the axially movable components of the shaft assembly in fixed axial position during rotation, while allowing release when rotation is stopped so that movable portions of the shaft assembly can be axially extended.
Claims We claim: 1. A centrifugal processor for centrifugally processing at least one unit, such as semiconductor wafers, photomasks, optical disks, and magnetic disks, comprising: a frame; a processing enclosure for containing and enclosing at least portions of a processing chamber; said processing enclosure being mounted upon the frame and having at least one access opening through which said unit can be loaded into and unloaded from the processing chamber; a closure mounted for controlled motion to open and close the access opening in the processing enclosure; said closure being controllably movable between at least a closed position wherein a substantially enclosed processing chamber is provided, and at least one open position wherein said access opening is substantially clear to allow ingress and egress of said unit into and from the processing chamber; a rotor mounted for rotation relative to said frame; said rotor having portions thereof within the processing chamber; extendible unit support means mounted upon said rotor for holding said unit upon said rotor; said extendible unit support means being mounted to said rotor to allow extension of at least portions of the extendible unit support means relative to the rotor at least partially through said access opening when said closure is in an open position to allow at least one unit to be loaded onto the extendible unit support means, and to allow retraction of the unit support means and any units supported thereon into the processing chamber for processing when the closure is in a closed position; and rotor drive means operably connected to the rotor for spinning the rotor and extendible unit support means when the unit support means and any units supported thereon are retracted into the processing chamber. 2. A processor according to claim 1 wherein said extendible unit support means includes at least two unit support members mounted in a cantilevered arrangement to hold said at least one unit thereon. 3. A processor according to claim 1 wherein said extendible unit support means includes at least two unit support members mounted in a cantilevered arrangement to an extendible shaft mounted within an outer shaft which is mounted for rotation. 4. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means. 5. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means; said unit support actuator including at least an outer shaft mounted for rotation relative to the frame, and at least an inner shaft mounted within the outer shaft for axial extension and retraction relative to the outer shaft. 6. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means; said unit support actuator including at least an outer shaft mounted for rotation relative to the frame, and at least an inner shaft mounted within the outer shaft for axial extension and retraction relative to the outer shaft; said at least an inner shaft including anti-rotation means for preventing relative rotation between the at least an outer shaft and at least an inner shaft when the extendible unit support means is extended. 7. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means includes an unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means; said unit support actuator including at least one fluid pressure actuator for extending or retracting portions of the extendible unit support means using fluid pressure. 8. A processor according to claim 1 wherein: the extendible unit support means extends in a cantilevered relationship from remaining portions of the rotor when in an extended position; and said rotor includes non-extendible portions which engage and support outer portions of the extendible unit support means when the unit support means is in a retracted position. 9. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate. 10. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate; said at least one unit being positioned such that said rotational axis intersects the unit. 11. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate; said at least one unit being positioned such that said rotational axis intersects the unit at a central location upon said unit. 12. A processor according to claim 1 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate; said at least one unit being positioned such that said rotational axis is approximately aligned with a central axis of the unit. 13. A centrifugal processor for centrifugally processing at least one unit, such as semiconductor wafers, photomasks, optical disks, and magnetic disks, comprising: a frame; a processing enclosure for containing and enclosing at least portions of a processing chamber; said processing enclosure being mounted upon the frame and having at least one access opening through which said unit can be loaded into and unloaded from the processing chamber; a closure mounted for controlled motion to open and close the access opening in the processing enclosure; said closure being controllably movable between at least a closed position wherein a substantially enclosed processing chamber is provided, and at least one open position wherein said access opening is substantially clear to allow ingress and egress of said unit into and from the processing chamber; a rotor mounted for rotation relative to said frame; said rotor having portions thereof within the processing chamber; extendible unit support means mounted upon said rotor for holding said unit upon said rotor; said extendible unit support means being mounted to said rotor to allow extension of at least portions of the extendible unit support means at least partially through said access opening when said closure is in an open position to allow at least one unit to be loaded onto the extendible unit support means, and to allow retraction of the unit support means and any units supported thereon into the processing chamber for processing when the closure is in a closed position; wherein the extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means; said unit support actuator including at least an outer shaft mounted for rotation relative to the frame, and at least an inner shaft mounted within the outer shaft for axial extension and retraction relative to the outer shaft. 14. A processor according to claim 13 wherein said at least an inner shaft includes anti-rotation means for preventing relative rotation between the at least an outer shaft and at least an inner shaft when the extendible unit support means is extended. 15. A centrifugal processor for centrifugally processing at least one unit, such as semiconductor wafers, photomasks, optical disks, and magnetic disks, comprising: a processing enclosure for containing and enclosing at least portions of a processing chamber; said processing enclosure having at least one access opening through which said unit can be loaded into and unloaded from the processing chamber; a closure which is movably mounted to open and close the access opening in the processing enclosure; a rotor mounted for rotation, said rotor having portions thereof within the processing chamber; extendible unit support means mounted upon said rotor for holding said unit upon said rotor; said extendible unit support means being mounted to said rotor to allow extension of at least portions of the extendible unit support means relative to the rotor at least partially through said access opening when said closure is in an open position to allow at least one unit to be loaded onto the extendible unit support means, and to allow retraction of the unit support means and any units supported thereon into the processing chamber for processing when the closure is in a closed position; and rotor drive means for spinning the rotor and extendible unit support means. 16. A processor according to claim 15 wherein said extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support member mounted in a cantilevered arrangement to hold said at least one unit thereon. 17. A processor according to claim 15 wherein said extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support member mounted in a cantilevered arrangement to an extendible shaft mounted within an outer shaft which is mounted for rotation. 18. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means. 19. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means; said unit support actuator including at least an outer rotatable shaft and at least an inner shaft mounted within the outer shaft for axial extension and retraction relative to the outer shaft. 20. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means includes at least one unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means; said unit support actuator including at least an outer rotatable shaft and at least an inner shaft mounted within the outer shaft for axial extension and retraction relative to the outer shaft; said at least an inner shaft including anti-rotation means for preventing relative rotation between the at least an outer shaft and at least an inner shaft when the extendible unit support means is extended. 21. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means includes an unit support actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means; said unit support actuator including at least one fluid pressure actuator for extending and retracting portions of the extendible unit support means using fluid pressure. 22. A processor according to claim 15 wherein: the extendible unit support means extends in a cantilevered relationship from remaining portions of the rotor when in an extended position; and said rotor includes non-extendible portions which engage and support outer portions of the extendible unit support means when the unit support means is in a retracted position. 23. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate. 24. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate; said at least one unit being positioned such that said rotational axis intersects the unit. 25. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate; said at least one unit being positioned such that said rotational axis intersects the unit at a central location upon said unit. 26. A processor according to claim 15 wherein the extendible unit support means supports the at least one unit transverse to a rotational axis about which the rotor and extendible unit support means rotate; said at least one unit being positioned such that said rotational axis is approximately aligned with a central axis of the unit. 27. A centrifugal processor for centrifugally processing at least one unit such as semiconductor wafers, photomasks, optical disks, and magnetic disks, comprising: a processing enclosure for containing and enclosing at least portions of a processing chamber, said processing enclosure having at least one access opening; a closure which is movable to open and close the access opening in the processing enclosure; a rotor assembly mounted for rotation and having extendible and non-extendible parts, at least portions of the extendible and non-extendible parts extending into the processing chamber; said unit being supportable upon extendible parts of the rotor assembly, the extendible parts of the rotor assembly being controllable into retracted positions within the processing chamber and extended positions wherein the extendible parts extend at least partially through the access opening; and a rotor drive operably connected to rotate both extendible and non-extendible parts of the rotor assembly. 28. A processor according to claim 27 and further comprising axial locking means for selectively preventing axial movement between the extendible and non-extendible parts when the extendible parts are retracted. 29. A processor according to claim 27 and further comprising anti-rotation means for preventing relative rotation between the extendible and non-extendible parts. 30. A processor according to claim 27 and further comprising at least one fluid pressure actuator for axially moving the extendible parts relative to the non-extendible parts. 31. A processor according to claim 27 and further comprising: at least one fluid pressure actuator for axially moving the extendible parts relative to the non-extendible parts; and axial locking means for selectively preventing axial movement between the extendible and non-extendible parts when the extendible parts are retracted. 32. A processor according to claim 27 wherein the rotor drive comprises a motor coupled to the rotor assembly at an intermediate position along its length, the motor being controlled to selectively rotate the rotor assembly. 33. A processor according to claim 27 wherein the rotor assembly includes shaft alignment means for providing positive coaxial positioning of the extendible parts of the rotor assembly when they are retracted. 34. A processor according to claim 27 wherein: the rotor drive comprises a motor coupled to the rotor assembly at an intermediate position along its length, the motor being controlled to selectively rotate the rotor assembly; the rotor assembly has a rearward end, the rotor assembly further comprising axial shaft locking means for engaging the rearward end of the rotor assembly and for securing the axial position of the extendible shaft assembly parts during rotation of the rotor assembly. 35. A processor according to claim 27 and further comprising: at least one fluid pressure actuator for axially moving the extendible parts relative to the non-extendible parts; and a pressurized fluid supply which is controllably extendible and retractable to allow controlled coupling to the rotor assembly during rotationally stopped periods, and to allow decoupling from the rotor assembly during periods the rotor assembly is rotating. 36. A processor according to claim 35 wherein the pressurized fluid supply includes a pair of pressurized fluid supply conduits which are movable to couple with the rotor assembly. 37. A processor according to claim 27 wherein: the non-extendible parts include inner and outer non-extendible shafts; and the extendible parts include an outer extendible shaft received for axial movement between the inner and outer non-extendible shafts. 38. A processor according to claim 35 wherein the extendible parts of the rotor assembly further include an inner extendible shaft within the outer extendible shaft. 39. A processor according to claim 35 wherein the rotor assembly further comprises: an inner extendible shaft within the outer extendible shaft; an axial shaft locking mechanism which engages the inner extendible shaft to secure the axial position of the rotor assembly extendible parts during rotation. 40. A processor according to claim 37 wherein the outer extendible shaft has a slidable piston which seals between the inner and outer non-extendible shafts, the slidable piston defining a shaft extension chamber between the non-extendible shafts and a shaft retraction chamber between the outer extendible shaft and the inner non-extendible shaft. 41. A processor according to claim 37 wherein the outer extendible shaft has a slidable piston which seals between the inner and outer non-extendible shafts, the slidable piston defining a shaft extension chamber between the non-extendible shafts and a shaft retraction chamber between the outer extendible shaft and the inner non-extendible shaft, the rotor assembly further comprising: an inner extendible shaft connected to move rotationally and axially with the outer extendible shaft; and an axial shaft locking mechanism which engages the inner extendible shaft to secure the axial position of the rotor assembly extendible parts during rotation. 42. A processor according to claim 37 wherein the outer extendible shaft has a slidable piston which seals between the inner and outer non-extendible shafts, the slidable piston defining a shaft retraction chamber; the rotor assembly further comprising a tubular shaft which defines an annular space about its exterior within the inner non-extendible shaft, the annular space communicating fluid pressure to the shaft retraction chamber for retracting the extendible parts of the rotor assembly. 43. A processor according to claim 27 wherein the rotor assembly further comprises extendible and non-extendible shafts. 44. A processor according to claim 43 wherein: the extendible shaft has a first tapered section at its forward end; and the rotor assembly includes a second tapered section which mates with the first tapered section when the extendible shaft is retracted to provide positive coaxial positioning of the extendible shaft. 45. A processor according to claim 43 wherein the rotor assembly further comprises a releasable detent mechanism for preventing relative axial movement between the extendible shaft and the non-extendible shaft. 46. A processor according to claim 43 wherein the rotor assembly further comprises: a non-extendible cylindrical sleeve portion, the inner extendible shaft being positioned for axial movement within the sleeve portion, the sleeve portion having at least one locking opening; a locking ball positioned within the locking opening; a rearwardly biased locking collar having a beveled surface which urges the locking ball inwardly, the extendible shaft having a detent which receives the locking ball to retain the extendible shaft in a retracted position; and a locking release actuator positioned rearward of the locking collar for selective forward axial movement to engage and axially move the locking collar to release the locking element from engagement with the extendible shaft, the locking release actuator being movable by fluid pressure. 47. A processor according to claim 27 and further comprising a stop positioner disk which extends outward from the rotor assembly and which rotates with the rotor assembly; and an engagement element which is axially movable to engage the stop positioner disk and to lock the rotor assembly in a desired upright position. 48. A processor according to claim 47 and further comprising a depression in the stop positioner disk to receive the engagement element. 49. A processor according to claim 47 wherein the engagement element comprises a roller mounted at the forward end of a throw rod, the throw rod being slidably mounted for axial movement relative to the stop positioner disk. 50. A processor according to claim 47 wherein the engagement element comprises a roller mounted at the forward end of a throw rod, the throw rod being slidably mounted for axial movement relative to the stop positioner disk, the throw rod being actuable by fluid pressure to urge the roller into engagement with the stop positioner disk. 