This invention pertains to an automatic method and apparatus for ascertaining the mass-moment of a blade of a jet engine. It encompasses robotic means to transport the blade from its loading station to the weighing station where its mass-moment is computed via a computer. Afterwards, the blade is returned to the loading station where the cycle begins over again.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining the mass-moment of a blade comprising the steps of: a) positioning an individual blade at a first work area within an enclosed chamber, said first work area being accessible from outside said enclosed chamber; b) engaging the blade at said first work area by robotic means within said enclosed chamber for transporting the blade from said first work area to a second work area also located within said enclosed chamber; c) automatically transferring the blade at said second work area from said robotic means to a weighing beam; d) weighing the blade at said second work area via engagement of said weighing beam with a weighing scale, and transmitting the weight measured by said weighing scale to processing means for determination of the mass-moment of the blade; e) disengaging the blade from said weighing beam; and, f) automatically returning the blade from said second work area to said first work area via said robotic means for subsequent removal of the blade from said enclosed chamber. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of individually identifying each such blade within said enclosed chamber and transmitting such identity to said processing means. 3. The method as set forth in claim 2 wherein said positioning step comprises the step of initially installing the blade in a blade holder. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3 wherein said blade holder is attached to a rotatable platter containing several such blade holders. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4 wherein said robotic means removes the blade from said blade holder. 6. The method as set forth in claim 5 wherein said weighing beam comprises gripping means for gripping the blade from said robotic means. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein said gripping means on said weighing beam are activated by said robotic means. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7 further comprising the step of raising said weighing beam prior to engaging said robotic means. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8 further comprising the step of lowering said weighing beam with the blade secured thereto prior to weighing the blade at said second work area. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the step of weighing the blade is accomplished by lowering said weighing beam upon said weighing scale. 11. A method of determining the mass-moment of a blade comprising the steps of: a) engaging the blade at a first workstation location by a robotic assembly and transporting it via said robotic assembly to a second workstation location, said robotic assembly and both said first and second workstation locations being located within an enclosed chamber with said first workstation location being accessible from outside said enclosed chamber; b) automatically transferring the blade at said second workstation location to a weighing beam, said weighing beam engaging the root end of the blade; c) measuring the force of the blade on said weighing beam by resting said weighing beam upon a scale; d) transmitting the force measured by said scale to processing means for determination of the mass-moment of the blade; e) raising said weighing beam off said scale and disengaging the blade from said weighing beam so as to transfer the blade back to said first workstation location for subsequent removal from said enclosed chamber; and, f) marking the blade for identification purposes. 12. The method as set forth in claim 11 wherein said first workstation location comprises a rotatable platter from which the blade is engaged by said robotic assembly. 13. The method as set forth in claim 12 wherein said weighing beam comprises gripping means for gripping the blade from said robotic assembly. 