Apparatus for routing optical fiber comprises an elongated manipulator (20, FIG. 2) having a vertical axis which can be controlled to move in an X-Y plane and in the .theta. direction around its vertical axis. A rotatable wheel (21) is mounted on a free end of the manipulator, and a reel (19) containing optical fiber (17) is mounted on one side of the manipulator. The fiber is threaded over a peripheral portion of the wheel and the wheel presses the fiber against an adhesive-coated surface of a substrate (18) to cause it to adhere to the coated surface. The manipulator is then moved in a direction parallel to the flat surface at an appropriate speed and direction to cause the wheel to rotate and to exert tension on the optical fiber. The tension causes additional optical fiber to unwind from the reel and to be fed to the wheel for adherence to the coated surface, thereby to form a continuous optical fiber portion extending along, and adhered to, the coated surface.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for making optical interconnections comprising the steps of: coating a flat surface of a substrate with an adhesive; mounting a container of optical fiber on a manipulator; mounting a rotatable wheel on an end of the manipulator; threading one end portion of said optical fiber from said container over a peripheral portion of said wheel; moving the manipulator such that said peripheral portion of the wheel presses said one end portion of the optical fiber against the adhesive-coated surface of the substrate, thereby to cause said first end portion of the optical fiber to adhere to said coated surface; and moving the manipulator in a direction parallel to said flat surface at an appropriate speed and direction to cause the wheel to rotate and to exert tension on said optical fiber, said tension causing additional optical fiber to feed from the container to the wheel for adherence to said coated surface, thereby to form an optical fiber portion extending along, and adhered to, said coated surface; and severing the optical fiber adhered to the coated surface from that contained on the manipulator. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the container is a rotatable reel upon which the optical fiber is wound; and said tension causes the reel to rotate, thereby to feed additional optical fiber to the wheel. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: the wheel has a groove extending around its periphery to hold the optical fiber in place. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein: the wheel rotates in a plane of rotation, said plane of rotation being substantially parallel to the direction of movement of said manipulator and substantially perpendicular to said flat surface. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: changing the direction of movement of the manipulator and simultaneously changing the plane of rotation appropriately to maintain the plane of rotation substantially parallel to the direction of movement of said manipulator. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein: the adhesive is a pressure sensitive adhesive. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein: the first mounting step comprises the steps of mounting three rotational reels each containing optical fiber on the said manipulator, the three reels having parallel planes of rotation; the wheel has three grooves; the threading step comprises the step of threading optical fiber from each of the three reels to a different one of the three grooves; and the moving step causes the wheel to exert tension on optical fiber from all of the three reels to cause such reels to feed additional optical fiber to the wheel for adherence to the coated surface, thereby to form three parallel optical interconnections extending along the coated surface. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein: the moving step comprises the step of moving the manipulator to form a pattern of continuous optical fiber on said coated substrate; and further comprising the steps of: testing the light transmission capability of said continuous optical fiber adhered to the coated substrate; and thereafter cutting the substrate and the optical fiber adhered thereto to form a plurality of optical fiber interconnections extending along the coated surface. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein: the testing step comprises the step of directing light in one end of said continuous optical fiber and detecting light emerging from another end of said continuous optical fiber. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of: after the substrate cutting step, using at least some of said plurality of light interconnections to transmit light from one region of the substrate to another region of the substrate. 11. A method for making a plurality of optical interconnections on a substrate comprising the steps of: locating one end portion of an optical fiber on a bonding tool; using the bonding tool to bond said one end portion of the optical fiber to the substrate; causing relative movement between the substrate and the bonding tool; feeding optical fiber to the bonding tool during said movement; during said movement, using the bonding tool to bond the optical fiber to the substrate, whereby a continuous optical fiber path is formed on the surface of the substrate having a configuration related to said relative movement; changing the direction of said relative movement so as to cause the continuous optical fiber path to form a plurality of loops; said changing of direction being sufficiently gradual to avoid damaging the optical fiber; testing the light transmission capability of said continuous optical fiber path; and thereafter cutting the substrate to sever the optical fiber path; said cutting being along a line that extends across at least certain ones of said loops, thereby to form a plurality of independent optical fiber interconnections on the surface of the substrate. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein: the testing step comprises directing light into one end of the continuous optical fiber path and detecting light emerging from an opposite end thereof. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of: covering the substrate with pressure-sensitive adhesive; and wherein: the bonding step comprises the step of pressing the optical fiber against the pressure-sensitive adhesive. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: covering the bonded optical fibers with a layer of thermoplastic material; and moving at least one heated roller over a top surface of the thermoplastic layer to cause said layer to adhere to the substrate and to said optical fibers. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the steps of: covering the layer of thermoplastic material with a cover layer; and wherein: the heated roller moving step comprises the step of contacting the heated roller to an upper surface of the cover layer. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein: the thermoplastic layer is polyurethane; and the cover layer is Kapton. 17. A method for making optical interconnections comprising the steps of: mounting on a bonding member a freely rotatable reel upon which is wound a continuous optical fiber; said bonding member including a grooved rotatable wheel on one end thereof; unreeling optical fiber from the reel and compressing one end portion of the optical fiber between a groove of the rotatable wheel and an adhesive-coated substrate surface; causing relative movement between the substrate and the bonding member thereby to exert a tension on the optical fiber and cause it to unreel from the reel; during the step of causing the relative movement, using the grooved rotatable wheel of the bonding member to compress the optical fiber against the coated surface, thereby to adhere to the coated surface that optical fiber unreeled from the reel. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein: the mounting step comprises the step of mounting at least two independently rotatable reels of optical fiber on the bonding member; the unreeling step comprises the step of unreeling optical fiber from both of said reels and compressing optical fiber from both of said reels between the bonding member and the adhesive-coated substrate surface; and during the step of causing relative movement, using the bonding member to compress the optical fiber from both reels against the coated surface, thereby to adhere to the coated surface that optical fiber unreeled from both reels. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein: the bonding member includes at one end thereof a wheel having at least two peripheral grooves; the optical fiber from one reel is located on one of said grooves and the optical fiber from the other reel is located on the other of said grooves; and optical fiber from both reels is compressed by the wheel against the coated surface, whereby two optical fiber interconnection of substantially the same length are formed on the coated substrate. 20. Apparatus for making optical interconnections comprising: a manipulator having a vertical central axis, the manipulator being moveable in X-Y directions and in a .theta. direction around the central axis; a rotatable wheel mounted at one end of the manipulator, the wheel being rotatable on an axis that is transverse to the central axis of the manipulator; a reel of optical fiber mounted on the manipulator vertically above said wheel; said reel being freely rotatable such that optical fiber therefrom may be threaded over a peripheral portion of said wheel; said wheel comprising means for pressing the optical fiber against a flat surface of a substrate coated with an adhesive; means for moving the manipulator in a direction parallel to said flat surface at an appropriate speed and direction to cause the wheel to rotate and to exert tension on said optical fiber, said tension causing additional optical fiber to unreel from the container to the wheel for adherence to said coated surface, thereby to form an optical fiber portion extending along, and adhered to, said coated surface. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein: the wheel has a groove extending around its periphery to hold the optical fiber in place; the wheel rotates in a plane of rotation, said plane of rotation being substantially parallel to the direction of movement of said manipulator and substantially perpendicular to said flat surface. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: means for changing the direction of movement of the manipulator; said direction changing means comprising means for rotating the manipulator on its central axis to maintain the plane of rotation of the wheel substantially parallel to the direction of movement of said manipulator. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein: the means for changing the direction of movement of the manipulator comprises means for changing the direction of movement through more than three hundred sixty degrees. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein: the movement of said manipulator is controlled by a stored computer program. 