A retractable tool bit assembly for a tool such as an allen key. The assembly includes one or more spring loaded nestable or telescoping tubular sections together with a catch mechanism for capturing and holding the tool in its retracted position. The catch mechanism consists of a latch mechanism located in a base section and which engages a conically shaped tool head located at the inner end of the tool. The tool head adjoins an eccentric oval type neck portion which extends to a rear lip of the tool head. The latch mechanism releases when the ovular neck portion rotates about the catch members upon actuation of a rotary tool drive motor. When released, all the telescoping sections and the tool extends fully outward to a use position.
Claims I claim: 1. A retractable tool bit assembly comprising: at least one rotatable outwardly protruding tool bit holder section; an elongated spring biased tool mounted for axial movement in and out of said holder section and having an inwardly retracted parked position and an outwardly extended use position, said tool further including an inner end having a grippable tool head thereat; a hook type catch mechanism located adjacent the holder section and including means for engaging said tool head when said tool is moved to said parked position, said tool further having an eccentric ovular neck portion adjacent the tool head for releasing the tool head from the catch mechanism when said tool is rotated, whereupon said spring biased tool extends fully outward to said use position. 2. A retractable tool bit assembly comprising: a rotatable outwardly protruding base section; at least one coaxial spring biased telescoping extension section mounted for axial movement in and out of said base section; an elongated spring biased tool mounted for axial movement in and out of said extension section and having an inwardly retracted parked position and an outwardly extended use position, said tool having an adjacent eccentric ovular neck portion further including a grippable tool head at the inner end thereof; a hook type catch mechanism located adjacent the base section and including means for engaging said tool head when said telescoping extension section and said tool are moved to said parked position, said tool further having an eccentric ovular neck portion adjacent the tool head for releasing the tool head from the catch mechanism upon rotational movement of said tool, whereupon said spring biased tool extends fully outward to said use position. 3. The retractable tool bit assembly as defined by claim 2 wherein said tool head is generally conically shaped. 4. The retractable tool bit as defined by claim 3 wherein said eccentric ovular neck portion includes an outer surface section coextensive with a lower outer edge portion of the conically shaped head. 5. The retractable stool bit assembly as defined by claim 3 wherein said means for engaging said end portion of said tool includes at least two opposing distending hook members having inward facing head engagement means at mutually different levels relative to a bottom lip portion of the tool head. 6. The retractable tool bit as defined by claim 5 wherein said conically shaped tool head includes a generally flat outer rim surface adjacent said bottom lip portion. 7. The retractable tool bit assembly as defined by claim 5 wherein said hook members comprise spring type members. 8. The retractable tool bit assembly as defined by claim 7 wherein said at least two opposing spring type hook members comprise opposing pairs of hook members. 9. The retractable tool bit assembly as defined by claim 8 wherein respective pairs of said pairs of hook members comprise redundant hook members. 10. The retractable tool bit as defined by claim 9 wherein said hook members comprise generally flat planar members. 11. The retractable tool bit as defined by claim 10 wherein each said hook member includes an outwardly diverging inner side surface for contacting the conically shaped tool head during axial movement of the tool for engagement with said hook members. 12. The retractable tool bit as defined by claim 5 wherein said hook members comprise a pair of generally L-shaped members. 13. The retractable tool bit as defined by claim 12 wherein one of said hook members comprise a spring biased hook member. 14. The retractable tool bit as defined by claim 13 wherein each said hook members an outwardly diverging inner side surface for contacting the conically shaped tool head during axial movement of the tool for engagement with said hook members. 15. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 3 wherein said base section and said at least one extension section are generally circular in cross section 16. The tool bit assembly as defined by claim 3 wherein said tool comprises an allen key type member. 