A fabricating process for pagewidth reading and/or writing bars assembled from subunits, such as ink jet printhead subunits, is disclosed. At least two lengths of subunits are cut and placed on corresponding flat containers. An assembly robot places the subunits in a butted array on an alignment fixture and checks the accumulated positional error of the subunits as they are being assembled. When the robot detects an error exceeding some preset limits, it chooses a subunit of a known size to compensate for the detected error.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for fabricating a pagewidth linear array for use as a pixel reading and/or writing bar, the array being assembled by the end-to-end abutment of subunits, each subunit having a plurality of equally spaced, linearly arranged discrete reading and/or writing elements, comprising the steps of: (a) providing at least two supplies of substantially identical fully functional subunits having opposing ends wherein said supplies comprise (i) a supply of shorter subunits having a predetermined shorter length plus or minus a predetermined tolerance and (ii) a supply of longer subunits having a predetermined longer length plus or minus a predetermined tolerance, wherein said predetermined shorter length is smaller than said predetermined longer length by a predetermined amount; (b) mounting a first subunit from a selected one of the supplies on an alignment fixture and in alignment with a predetermined location point on said fixture; (c) mounting additional subunits one at a time on the alignment fixture in an end-to-end abutting relationship until the array is completed with a final subunit; (d) measuring the distance between the location point on the alignment fixture and a registration point on each subunit immediately after it is mounted on said fixture and before a next subunit is mounted; (e) determining a stackup error by comparing the measured distance between the location point on the alignment fixture and the registration point on the last mounted subunit with a desired distance; and (f) correcting the stackup error if the stackup error is outside a range of plus or minus a predetermined tolerance stackup from said desired distance by replacing the last mounted subunit with a subunit selected from one of said supplies other than the supply from which said last mounted subunit was selected. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the subunit ends are parallel and designed so that the distance between adjacent elements in two separately abutted subunits is within the same predetermined adjacent distance as the elements in a single subunit plus or minus a predetermined adjacent tolerance; and wherein one end of the first subunit mounted is aligned with the location point on said fixture. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the location point comprises a predetermined reference point inscribed on the alignment fixture. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the location point on the alignment fixture comprises a contact surface thereof in which the aligned first subunit end is placed in contact therewith. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the method further comprises: (g) repeating steps (c) through (e), but continuing to choose subunits from the supply last used in step (f) to correct the stackup error until the current stackup error is again outside the range of plus or minus the predetermined amount from said desired distance in the opposite direction from the previously corrected stackup error; and (h) repeating steps (f) and (g) to correct the current stackup error until the array is completed with a final subunit. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of providing a supply of substantially identical fully functional ideal subunits having opposing ends, wherein said ideal subunits have a predetermined ideal length plus or minus a predetermined tolerance and said ideal length is intermediate said shorter and longer lengths. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the selected supply of subunits in step (b) is the supply of subunits with the ideal length and step (f) further comprises: (i) choosing the appropriate subunit to correct the stackup error by selecting the replacement subunit from either the supply of shorter subunits or the supply of longer subunits, so that the stackup error is within the range of plus or minus the predetermined amount from said desired distance; (j) then repeating steps (c) through (e) choosing subunits from the supply of subunits with the ideal length until the current stackup error is outside the range of plus or minus the predetermined amount from said desired distance; and (k) repeating step (f) to correct the current stackup error when it is outside the range of plus or minus the predetermined amount from said desired distance. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the selected supply of subunits in step (b) is the supply of subunits with the ideal length and step (f) further comprises: (l) choosing the appropriate subunit to correct the stackup error by selecting the replacement subunit from either the supply of shorter subunits or the supply of longer subunits and continuing to choose subunits from the supply used to correct the stackup error until the current stackup error is outside the range of plus or minus the predetermined amount from the desired distance in the opposite direction from the previously corrected stackup error; (m) repeating step (f) to correct the stackup error, then choosing subunits from the supply of subunits with the desired length during steps (c) through (e) until the current stackup error is outside the range of plus or minus the predetermined amount from said desired distance; and (n) repeating step (f) to correct the current stackup error when the current stackup error is outside the range of plus or minus the predetermined amount from said desired distance until the array is completed with a final subunit. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the registration point on the subunits comprises the element of the last mounted subunit which is farthest from the contact surface on the alignment fixture. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the subunits are fully functional printhead subunits with an array of nozzles on its roof; and wherein the elements are the nozzles. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the subunits are fully functional printhead subunits with an array of nozzles on its edge or side; and wherein the elements are the nozzles. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein step (b) further comprises: (o) measuring the distance between the contact surface on the alignment fixture and a selected one of the nozzles with an identified position on the first mounted printhead subunit; (p) comparing the measured distance between the contact surface on the alignment fixture and the selected nozzle on the first mounted printhead subunit with a desired distance A; and (q) if the measured distance is outside a range of plus or minus a predetermined tolerance, replacing the printhead subunit with another one from the supplies of printhead subunits until one is within said predetermined tolerance. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the step (q) of replacing the first printhead subunits comprises the steps of: removing the first mounted printhead subunit; mounting a replacement first mounted printhead subunit; and repeating the process of measuring, comparing, and replacing the first mounted printhead subunit until the distance A between the contact surface on the alignment fixture and the selected nozzle on the first mounted printhead subunit is within said predetermined tolerance. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the step (q) of replacing the first mounted printhead subunit further comprises: (r) only replacing one printhead subunit, followed by selecting an appropriate printhead subunit to be mounted next from another supply in accordance with step (f), thereby waiving said predetermined tolerance for distance A. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein step (d) further comprises: (s) measuring the distance between the contact surface of the alignment fixture and the last nozzle on the next-to-last mounted printhead subunit and the distance between the contact surface of the alignment and the first nozzle on the last mounted printhead subunit; (t) subtracting the two measurements to obtain distance B which represents the distance between the last nozzle of the next-to-last mounted printhead subunit and the adjacent first nozzle of the last mounted printhead subunit; (u) comparing the measured distance B with a desired predetermined distance; (v) replacing the last mounted printhead subunit with another printhead subunit from a different supply, if measured distance B is outside a range of plus or minus the predetermined adjacent tolerance from the predetermined adjacent distance; and (w) repeating steps (s) through (v) until measured distance B is within the range of plus or minus the predetermined adjacent tolerance. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the means for measuring in step (s) is a video camera and computer. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein a robot mounts and removes the subunits. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the predetermined amount from said desired distance is within ten micrometers. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the predetermined adjacent tolerance is five micrometers. 20. The method of claim 11, wherein the length of one supply of functional longer, printhead subunits is approximately five micrometers longer than the ideal length and the length of one supply of functional shorter printhead subunits is approximately five micrometers shorter than the ideal length. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the method further comprises the steps of: (x) applying a layer of adhesive to a surface of an elongated structural member having a predetermined length which is longer than the pagewidth array of printhead subunits; (y) aligning, mating and bonding the structural member with the array of printhead subunits mounted on the alignment fixture with the layer of adhesive therebetween; and (z) curing the adhesive and removing the pagewidth in jet printhead array from the alignment fixture. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the method further comprises mounting an ink supply manifold to the printhead array on the side of the abutted printhead subunits opposite the one bonded to the structural member. 23. A method for fabricating a pagewidth linear array for use as a printbar, the array being assembled by the end-to-end abutment of fully functional printhead subunits, each subunit having a plurality of equally spaced, linearly arranged discrete nozzles, comprising the steps of: (a) providing at least one supply of substantially identical fully functional longer printhead subunits, each having opposing ends adopted for abutment with each other, the distance between opposing ends of each printhead subunit being within a predetermined distance plus or minus a predetermined tolerance, so that the distance between adjacent nozzles in two separately abutted printhead subunits are within the same spacing as the nozzles in the printhead subunits plus or minus the predetermined tolerance. (b) providing at least one supply of fully functional shorter printhead subunits that are substantially identical to the longer printhead subunits, except for the distance between opposing ends which is slightly smaller than the distance between the opposing ends of the longer printhead subunits by at least a predetermined amount; (c) mounting a first printhead subunit from one of the supplies with one end on a contact surface of an alignment fixture; (d) mounting a second printhead subunit from the same supply as the first printhead subunit on the alignment fixture in an end-to-end abutting relationship with the first printhead subunit; (e) measuring the distance of the last nozzle of a last mounted printhead subunit from the contact surface on the alignment fixture before a next printhead subunit is mounted; (f) comparing the measured distance between the last nozzle of the last mounted printhead subunit from the contact surface on the alignment fixture with a desired distance; (g) mounting only printhead subunits from the same supply as the last mounted printhead subunit until the distance separating the contact surface of the alignment fixture and the last nozzle of the last mounted printhead subunit is outside a range of plus or minus a predetermined stackup error from said desired distance; (h) replacing the last mounted printhead subunit with a printhead subunit from the other supply only if the measured distance exceeds a range of plus or minus a predetermined stackup error from the desired distance; (i) repeating steps (e) through (g) after each printhead is abuttingly mounted on the alignment fixture; and (j) continually mounting printheads until the pagewidth array is completed with a final printhead subunit which is within the range of plus or minus the predetermined stackup error from said desired distance. 