A method based on image defocus information is disclosed for determining distance (or ranging) of objects from a camera system and autofocusing of camera systems. The method uses signal processing techniques. The present invention includes a camera characterized by a set of four camera parameters: position of the image detector inside the camera, focal length of the optical system in the camera, the size of the aperture of the camera, and the characteristics of the light filter in the camera. In the method of the present invention, at least two images of the object are recorded with different values for the set of camera parameters. The two images are converted to one-dimensional signals by summing them along a particular direction whereby the effect of noise is reduced and the amount of computations are significantly reduced. Fourier coefficients of the one-dimensional signals and a log-by-rho-squared transform are used to obtain a calculated table. A stored table is calculated using the log-by-rho-squared transform and the Modulation Transfer Function of the camera system. Based on the calculated table and the stored table, the distance of the desired object is determined. In autofocusing, the calculated table and the stored table are used to calculate a set of focus camera parameters. The camera system is then set to the focus camera parameters to accomplish autofocusing.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of determining the distance of an object from a camera system, said camera system having an aperture through which light enters, a light filter, an image detector, an image processor operatively connected to said image detector, an optical system having a first principal plane and a second principal plane, said second principal plane being arranged closer to said image detector than said first principal plane, said camera system characterizable by a Modulation Transfer Function (MTF) at a set of object distances and a set of discrete frequencies, said MTF determinable by a set of camera parameters and a distance of said object from the camera system, said set of camera parameters comprising at least one of (i) distance (s) between said second principal plane and said image detector, (ii) diameter (D) of said camera aperture, (iii) focal length (f) of said optical system, and (iv) spectral characteristic (.lambda.) of said light filter, said camera system configurable to at least a first camera setting and a second camera settings the first camera setting corresponding to a first set of camera parameters and the second camera setting corresponding to a second set of camera parameters, the second set of camera parameters having at least one camera parameter value which is different from the values of said first set of camera parameters, said method comprising: a) establishing a ratio table at said set of object distances and said set of discrete frequencies by determining the ratio of said MTF at said first camera setting to said MTF at said second camera setting; b) transforming said ratio table through log-by-rho squared transformation to obtain a stored table; c) setting said camera to said first set of camera parameters; d) forming a first image of said object with said optical system on said image detector, and recording said first image in said image processor as a first digital image, said first digital image being a two dimensional signal; e) summing said first digital image along a particular direction to obtain a first signal, said first signal being a one-dimensional signal, whereby the effect of noise is significantly reduced and subsequent computations are significantly reduced; f) normalizing said first signal with respect to its mean value to provide a first normalized signal; g) calculating a first set of Fourier coefficients of said first normalized signal at said set of discrete frequencies; h) setting said camera system to said second set of camera parameters; i) forming a second image of said object with said optical system on said image detector, and recording said second image in said image processor as a second digital image, said second digital image being a two-dimensional signal; j) summing said second digital image along said particular direction to obtain a second signal, said second signal being a one-dimensional signal, whereby effect of noise is significantly reduced and subsequent computations are significantly reduced; k) normalizing said second signal with respect to its means value to provide a second normalized signal; l) calculating a second set of Fourier coefficients of said second normalized signal at said set of discrete frequencies; m) dividing said first set of Fourier coefficients by said second set of Fourier coefficients to provide a set of ratio values; n) transforming said set of ratio values through log-by-rho-squared transformation to obtain a calculated table; and o) calculating the distance of said object from said camera system on the basis of said calculated table and said stored table. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said first digital image and said second digital image are multiplied by a center-weighted mark thereby reducing effect of image overlap. 3. The method of claim 1 where said first digital image and said second digital image are normalized with respect to magnification by sealing their sizes. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein a light pattern is projected onto said object to provide an illuminated object, whereby a brightness variation is provided for determination of said distance of said object from said camera system in the presence of uniform reflectance characteristics. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said illuminated object has a border and a region surrounds said border, the region surrounding the border of said object not being illuminated, whereby image-overlap problem is avoided and accuracy of said distance of said object determination is enhanced. 6. the method of claim 1 wherein said first normalized signal and said second normalized signal are reflected at their edges to make them two times longer, whereby the effect of image overlap problem is diminished. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said MTF is a Gaussian function. 8. the method of claim 1 wherein said MTF is sync-like and corresponds to paraxial geometric optics. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said stored table is represented in said image processor by a set of two parameters corresponding to a linear function. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein step (o) is calculated by determining the mean value of said calculated table. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said stored table is represented in said image processor by a set of three parameters corresponding to a quadratic function. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein step (o) is calculated by determining the mean value of said calculated table. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein step (o) is calculated by determining the mean-square error between said calculated table and said stored table. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said first set of camera parameters and said second set of camera parameters differ in the values of the parameter s which specifies the distance of said image detector from said second principal plane. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein said image detector is a CCD array. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the summing of step (e) and step (j) are performed by rotating a mirror through an angle so as to sweep said first and second images across a linear CCD array. 17. The method of automatically focusing a camera system to an object, said camera system having an aperture through which light enters, a light filter, an image detector, fan image processor operatively connected to said image detector, an optical system having a first principal plane and a second principal plane, said second principal plane being arranged closer to said image detector than said first principal plane, said camera system characterizable by a Modulation Transfer Function (MTF) at a set of object distances and a set of discrete frequencies, said MTF determinable by a set of camera parameters and a distance of said object, said set of camera parameters comprising at least one of (i) distance (s) between said second principal plane and said image detector, (ii) diameter (D) of said camera aperture, (iii) focal length (f) of said optical system, and (iv) spectral characteristic .lambda. of said light filter, said camera system configurable to at least a first camera setting and a second camera setting the first camera setting corresponding to a first set of camera parameters and the second camera setting corresponding to a second set of camera parameters, the second set of camera parameters having at least one camera parameter value which is different from the values of said first set of camera parameters, said method comprising: a) calculating a ratio table at said set of object distances and said set of discrete frequencies by specifying the ratio of said MTF at said first camera setting to said MTF at said second camera setting; b) transforming said ratio table through a log-by-rho-squared transformation to obtain a stored table; c) setting said camera to said first set of camera parameters; d) forming a first image of said object with said optical system on said image detector, and recording said first image in said image processor as a first digital image, said first digital image being a two dimensional signal; e) summing said first digital image along a particular direction to obtain a first signal, said first signal being a one-dimensional signal, whereby the effect of noise is significantly reduced and subsequent computations are significantly reduced; f0 normalizing said first signal with respect to its mean value to provide a first normalized signal; g) calculating a first set of Fourier coefficients of said first normalized signal at said set of discrete frequencies; h) setting said camera system to said second set of camera parameters; i) forming a second image of said object with said optical system on said image detector, and recording said second image in said image processor as a second digital image, said second digital image being a two-dimensional signal; j) summing said second digital image along said particular direction to obtain a second signal, said second signal being a one-dimensional signal, whereby the effect of noise is significantly reduced and subsequent computations are significantly reduced; k) normalizing said second signal with respect to its mean value to provide a second normalized signal; l) calculating a second set of Fourier coefficients of said second normalize signal at said set of discrete frequencies; m) dividing said first set of Fourier coefficients by said second set of Fourier coefficients to provide a set of ratio values; n) transforming said set of ratio values through log-by-rho-squared transformation to obtain a calculated table; o) calculating a set of focus camera parameters corresponding to camera settings on the basis of said calculated table and said stored table; and p) adjusting the configuration of said camera system to the camera settings specified by said set of focus camera parameters, whereby automatic focusing is accomplished. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said first digital image and said second digital image are multiplied by a center-weighted mask thereby reducing the effect of image overlap. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein said first digital image and said second digital image are normalized with respect to magnification by scaling their sizes. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein a light pattern is projected onto said object so as to provide an illuminated object, whereby a brightness variation is provided in order to determine the distance of said object from said camera system in the presence of uniform reflectance characteristics. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said illuminated object has a border and a region surrounds said border, the region surrounding the border of said object not being illuminated, whereby the image-overlap problem is avoided and accuracy of said distance of said object determination is enhanced. 22. The method of claim 17 wherein said first normalized signal and said second normalized signal are reflected at their edges to make them two times longer, whereby the effect of image overlap problem is diminished. 23. The method of claim 17 wherein said MTF is a Gaussian function. 24. The method of claim 17 wherein said MTF is sync-like are corresponds to paraxial geometric optics. 25. The method of claim 17 wherein said stored table is represented in said image processor by a set of two parameters corresponding to a linear function. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein step (o) is calculated by determining the mean value of said calculated table. 27. The method of claim 17 wherein said stored table is represented in said image processor by a set of three parameters corresponding to a quadratic function. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein step (o) is calculated by determining the mean value of said calculated table. 29. The method of claim 17 wherein step (o) is calculated by determining the mean-square error between said calculated table and said stored table. 30. The method of claim 17 wherein said first set of camera parameters and said second set of camera parameters differ in the values of parameter s which specifies the distance of said image detector from said second principal plane. 31. The method of claim 17 wherein said image detector is a CCD array. 32. The method of claim 17 wherein the summing of step (e) and step (j) are performed by rotating a mirror through an angle so as to sweep said first and second images across a linear CCD array. 