A scanning measurement system comprises a device for imaging an object, wherein the imaging device generates a plurality of data values representing distances from the imaging device to respective points on the object, and a device for processing the data values generated by the imaging device, wherein the processing device comprises a device for entering a predetermined 21/2-D mathematical model of the object, and a device for comparing the data values to the model to determine the object's thickness.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thickness measurement system comprising: means for imaging an object, wherein the imaging means generates a plurality of data values representing distances from the imaging means to respective points on the object; and means for processing the data values generated by the imaging means, wherein the processing means comprises: means for protruding a measured 21/2-D model of a surface of the object, comprising means for making a first object origin congruent with a second object origin, the first object origin being determined by first data points collected by the imaging means from a first position relative to the object, the second object origin being determined by second data points collected by the imaging means from a second position relative to the object, whereby data values collected by the imaging means from the first position may be combined with data values collected by the imaging means from the second position to produce the measured 21/2-D model; means for entering a predetermined 21/2-D mathematical model of the object; and first comparing means for comparing the measured 21/2-D model to the predetermined 21/2-D model to determine the object's thickness. 2. The thickness measurement system of claim 1, wherein the processing means further comprises: means for storing a plurality of thicknesses determined by the comparing means from respective data values generated by the imaging means from respective locations of the object with respect to the imaging means; and second comparing means for comparing the plurality of thicknesses to a previously stored plurality of thicknesses. 3. The thickness measurement system of claim 1, wherein the comparing means comprises: means for establishing an object reference coordinate system; and means for calibrating the imaging means's location with respect to the object in the object reference coordinate system. 4. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, wherein said imaging means includes an imaging laser radar and a shutter module. 5. The thickness measuring system of claim 4, wherein said imaging means includes a positioner module having at least two tilt sensors. 6. The thickness measuring system of claim 4, wherein said imaging laser radar includes an electronic phase detector for measuring a phase difference between a transmitted laser signal and a signal reflected by the object and received by said imaging laser radar, said phase difference being proportional to object distance. 7. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, further comprising a means for moving said imaging means to different heights to ensure adequate measurement of the sides of an object. 8. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, further comprising a mobile rack for housing said system. 9. The thickness measuring system of claim 8, wherein said imaging means is separable from said rack to permit remote imaging of an object. 10. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, wherein said processing means further comprises a video color display and a color line printer. 11. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, further comprising means for cooling said system, wherein the cooling means includes means for radiation shielding and electronic cooling module. 12. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, wherein said imaging means generates data values representing reflectances of respective points on the object. 13. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, further comprising: at least two tilt sensors for measuring tilt of said imaging means; and means for determining azimuth and elevation of at least two points on the object relative to said measuring system in a spherical coordinate system, wherein said processing means includes: means for transforming the azimuth and elevation of said at least two points determined by said determining means into a cartesian coordinate system; means for eliminating tilt measured by said at least two tilt-sensors from said transformed azimuth and elevation; means for calculating a yaw value in the cartesian coordinate system of measurement system; and means for determining a position of the imaging means in the cartesian coordinate system relative to said object. 14. The thickness measuring system of claim 13, wherein said processing means further comprises means for transforming said cartesian coordinate system into an object-reference coordinate system. 15. The thickness measuring system of claim 1, wherein said processing means includes means for interfacing with an external device to control at least one operation of said external device according to the object thickness determined by said comparing means. 16. A method of measuring the thickness of an object, said method comprising the steps of: providing an electro-optic distance measuring device capable of transmitting a radiation signal of narrow frequency bandwidth, receiving a portion of said transmitted radiation signal reflected by said object, and determining by phase comparison of the transmitted and received signals the distance from the electro-optical distance measuring device to a point of reflection on the object; determining a multitude of distance values to respective points on said object; modelling by a 21/2-D modelling process the object's actual surface from the multitude of distance values, the step of modelling including the step of: making a first object origin congruent with a second object origin, the first object origin being determined by first data points collected by the imaging means from a first position relative to the object, the second object origin being determined by second data points collected by the imaging means from a second position relative to the object, whereby data values collected by the imaging means from the first position may be combined with data values collected by the imaging means from the second position to produce the 21/2-D model of the object's actual surface; comparing the object's modelled actual surface with a predetermined 21/2-D modelled object surface; and outputting the results of said comparison. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said actual surface modelling step further comprises the steps of: establishing a coordinate system relative to the object; determining said distance values in a coordinate system relative to said electro-optic distance measuring device; and transforming the distance values in the electro-optic distance measuring device coordinate system into said coordinate system relative to the object. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said step of establishing a coordinate system relative to the electro-optic distance measuring device includes the step of determining distance values to at least two points on the object. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said step of determining distance values includes the steps of; measuring tilt of said electro-optic distance measuring device; determining azimuth and elevation of at least two points on the object relative to said electro-optic distance measuring device in a spherical coordinate system; transforming the azimuth and elevation of said at least two points determined by said determining means into a cartesian coordinate system; and eliminating the measured tilt from the azimuth and elevation of said at least two points. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said step of transforming distance values in the electro-optic distance measuring device coordinate system includes the steps of: measuring said at least two points on the object relative to a first position of said electro-optic distance measuring device; moving the electro-optic distance measuring device to a second position; measuring said at least two points on the object relative to said second position of said electro-optic distance measuring device; calculating a yaw value of the electro-optic distance measuring device with respect to said electro-optic distance measuring device coordinate system based on the first and second position measurements; determining said electro-optic distance measuring device position relative to said object; and transforming said electro-optic distance measuring device coordinate system to said object coordinate system based on the determined position of said electro-optic distance measuring device. 