A rack for supporting and accurately positioning rolls of web material (16-24) comprises a base member (10) having an upper surface (12) on which a plurality of support members (14, 26-32) are mounted by a plurality of individually removable brackets (34-40), the support members engaging axially extending ends (24) of the cores (18) of the rolls. A fixture (48-72, 88, 90) and method for assembling such a rack are described.
Claims Having thus described our invention in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to make and use it, we claim as new and desire to secure Letters Patent for: 1. An improved rack for supporting a plurality of objects, each of said objects having an axis and opposite ends located on said axis, each of said ends having a portion extending axially beyond the body of said object, said rack comprising: a base member having an upper surface; a plurality of support members, one more in number than said plurality of objects, each support member having an upper end and a lower end, each said upper end comprising means for supporting one of said ends of one of said objects or for supporting one of said ends of each of an adjacent pair of said objects, with said axes of said plurality of objects colinear; and a plurality of means, individually removably mounted on said upper surface, for individually mounting said lower ends to said base member and thereby positioning said plurality of support members to support said plurality of objects. 2. An improved rack according to claim 1, further comprising means on said base member for locating said rack relative to an underlying support. 3. An improved rack according to claim 1, wherein each said elongated bracket comprises a groove extended along said open elongated channel to facilitate injecting said adhesive beneath said elongated edge. 4. An improved rack according to claim 1, wherein said means for supporting comprises an upwardly open cradle at said upper end for partially surrounding said ends and means associated with said cradle for xontacting and supporting said ends of said objects at least at two circumferentially spaced locations, said locations being below said colinear axes. 5. An improved rack according to claim 4, wherein said means for contacting and supporting comprises a pair of sunstantially flat surfaced contact pads affixed to said cradle. 6. An improved rack according to claim 1, wherein each of said objects is a roll of web material of the type comprising a core on which a length of said web material is wound, said core having an axis and opposite ends, each end extending axially beyond said material. 