Robot gripper jaw apparatus is disclosed that is suited for grasping a media cartridge in a robot-controlled media library, or for grasping other objects. The gripper jaw apparatus employs a novel circular cam which reduces the amount of torque required to operate the gripper jaws. This allows use of a relatively small servo motor. The use of a circular cam additionally decreases the overall size and complexity of the gripper apparatus as compared to conventional gripper mechanisms. The gripper apparatus provides for an easily controllable robot gripper jaw mechanism for grasping a media cartridge wherein the force applied by the gripper jaw mechanism does not damage the media cartridge being grasped, due to the use of a flat spring which limits the force applied to the media cartridge. In addition, the gripper apparatus does not require that the gripper drive servo motor be reversed in order to release the media cartridge. Therefore, the gripper jaw servo motor need only rotate in one direction. This uni-directional servo motor motion reduces the complexity of the gripper controlling electronics and also reduces servo motor brush wear.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus including a pair of gripper jaws for grasping an object, said apparatus comprising: (a) a cam having a top surface and also having a center plane having both axes perpendicular to an axis of rotation of said cam, wherein said top surface has a lobed area and a non-lobed area and intersects said axis of rotation; (b) a cam follower abutting said top surface of said cam; (c) a flexible member for connecting one jaw of said pair of gripper jaws to said cam follower, said flexible member being effective for applying a predetermined maximum closing force via said one jaw against said object in response to a predetermined displacement of said cam follower relative to said center plane of said cam; (d) means for biasing said one jaw away from said center plane toward an open position to urge said cam follower against said top surface of said cam; (e) means for closing said one jaw to grasp said object by rotating said cam to a first position in which said cam follower abuts said lobed area of said cam; and (f) means for opening said one jaw to release said object by rotating said cam to a second position in which said cam follower abuts said non-lobed area of said cam. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said cam is rotated about said axis of rotation in only one direction to effect both the grasping and releasing of said object. 3. Apparatus for grasping an object, said apparatus comprising: (a) a cam having a top surface and a center plane positioned at a right angle to an axis of rotation of said cam, said top surface having a lobed area and a non-lobed area; (b) first cam follower means abutting said top surface of said cam; (c) gripper means capable of assuming a closed position and an open position for respectively grasping and releasing said object; (d) a first flexible member connecting said first cam follower means to said gripper means; (e) first biasing means for biasing: (i) said gripper means toward said open position, and (ii) said first flexible member to urge said first cam follower means against said top surface of said cam; (f) means for closing said gripper means to grasp said object when said cam is rotated to a position in which said cam follower means abuts said lobed area of said cam; and (g) means for opening said gripper means to release said object when said cam is rotated to a position in which said cam follower means abuts said non-lobed area of said cam. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said gripper means includes an upper gripper jaw and a lower gripper jaw for grasping said object therebetween, said lower gripper jaw being fixed in a substantially horizontal position. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said first biasing means includes a coil spring for applying a torsional force to said upper gripper jaw. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said cam is rotated only in one direction to effect both the grasping and releasing of said object. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said cam also has a bottom surface with a lobed area and a non-lobed area located thereon, and wherein said gripper means includes an upper gripper jaw and a lower gripper jaw for grasping said object therebetween, said apparatus further including: (a) second cam follower means abutting said bottom surface of said cam; (b) a second flexible member connecting said second cam follower means to said lower gripper jaw; (c) second biasing means for biasing: (i) said lower gripper jaw toward said open position, and (ii) said second flexible member to urge said second cam follower means against said bottom surface of said cam; (d) means for closing said gripper means to grasp said object when said cam is rotated to a position in which said second cam follower means abuts said lobed area of said cam; and (e) means for opening said gripper means to release said object when said cam is rotated to a position in which said cam follower means abuts said non-lobed area of said cam. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said first biasing means and said second biasing means each includes an attached coil spring, each said coil spring being effective for applying a torsional force to a connected said gripper jaw. 9. Apparatus for grasping an object, said apparatus comprising: (a) a circular cam rotatably mounted on a support frame, said circular cam having a center plane positioned at a right angle to an axis of rotation of said cam; (b) a top surface on said circular cam; (c) a lobed area and a non-lobed area on said circular cam; (d) grasping means attached to said support frame including a first gripper jaw and a second gripper jaw, (e) means for pivotally engaging said first gripper jaw to said support frame about an axis oriented parallel to said center plane; (f) said first and second gripper jaws being oppositely disposed from each other so as to grasp a said object located therebetween when said first gripper jaw pivots toward said second gripper jaw; (g) upper cam follower means including an arm slidably abutting said top surface of said circular cam; (h) an upper flexible member connecting said arm and said first gripper jaw; (i) means for biasing said first gripper jaw toward an open position away from said center plane to urge said arm against said top surface of said circular cam; (j) means for closing said first gripper jaw wherein said circular cam is rotated to a position in which said arm engages said lobed area to cause said first gripper jaw to grasp said object; and (k) means for opening said first gripper jaw wherein said circular cam is rotated to a position in which said arm engages said non-lobed area to cause said first gripper jaw to release said object. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said lobed area has a gradual slope such that a maximum height of said lobed area is situated at a rotational angle substantially greater than 30 degrees from a minimum height of said non-lobed area, said maximum and said minimum heights being relative to said center plane. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said circular cam also has a lobed bottom surface with a lobed area and a non-lobed area, said apparatus further including: (a) lower cam follower means abutting said bottom surface of said circular cam; (b) means for biasing said second gripper jaw toward an open position away from said center plane at a right angle thereto; (c) a lower flexible member connecting said lower cam follower means to said second gripper jaw, said lower flexible member being biased by said second gripper jaw biasing means to urge said lower cam follower means against said bottom surface of said circular cam; (d) means for closing said second gripper jaw by rotating said circular cam to a position in which said lower cam follower means engages said lobed area on said bottom surface of said circular cam; and (e) means for opening said second gripper jaw by rotating said cam to a position in which said lower cam follower means engages said non-lobed area of said bottom surface of said circular cam. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said means for biasing said first gripper jaw and said means for biasing said second gripper jaw each include a coil spring, each said coil spring applying a torsional force to a respective said gripper jaw. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said upper flexible member is a flat spring which applies a predetermined maximum closing force via said first gripper jaw against said object in response to a predetermined displacement of said upper cam follower means with respect to said center plane of said cam at a right angle thereto, wherein said predetermined maximum closing force is not substantially exceeded when said predetermined displacement of said upper cam follower means is exceeded. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said arm has a first end and a second end, said first end of said arm being connected to said first end of said upper flexible member, said second end of said arm being rotatably disposed on said top surface of said cam via slidable means rotatably connected to said second end of said arm. 15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said cam is rotated only in one direction to effect both the grasping and releasing of said object. 16. In a robotics system, apparatus for grasping a media cartridge, said apparatus comprising: (a) a support frame; (b) a circular cam rotatably mounted on said support frame, said circular cam having a top surface and a bottom surface and a center plane bisecting said circular cam at a right angle to an axis of rotation thereto; (c) a first lobed area and a first non-lobed area on said top surface of said circular cam; (d) a second lobed area and a second non-lobed area on said bottom surface of said circular cam; (e) grasping means including a first gripper jaw and a second gripper jaw capable of assuming a closed position and an open position for respectively grasping and releasing said media cartridge; (f) means for pivotally engaging said first gripper jaw and said second gripper jaw to said support frame; (g) first means for biasing said first gripper jaw toward an open position away from said center plane toward an open position; (h) second means for biasing said second gripper jaw toward an open position away from said center plane toward an open position; and (i) a first cam follower and a second cam follower, said first cam follower abutting said top surface of said circular cam, and said second cam follower abutting said bottom surface of said circular cam, each of said first and said second cam followers comprising: (1) slidable means slidably abutting a said surface of said cam, said slidable means being urged against a said surface of said circular cam by one of said biasing means; (2) a flexible member connected between one of said gripper jaws and one of said slidable means, said flexible member being effective for applying a predetermined maximum closing force against said media cartridge in response to a maximum displacement of said cam follower from said center plane of said circular cam; (j) means for moving each of said gripper jaws toward a closed position to grasp said media cartridge between said gripper jaws when said circular cam is rotated to a position in which said first and said second cam followers engage said first and said lobed areas, respectively, to cause said first and said second gripper jaws to grasp said media cartridge therebetween; and (k) means for moving each of said gripper jaws toward an open position to release said media cartridge when said circular cam is rotated to a position in which said first and said second cam followers engage said first and said second non-lobed areas, respectively, to cause said first and said second gripper jaws to release said media cartridge. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said lobed area has a gradual slope such that a maximum height of said lobed area is situated at a rotational angle at least 30 degrees from a minimum height of said non-lobed area, said maximum and said minimum heights being relative to said center plane. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said slidable means is attached to said flexible member via an arm. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein each of said first and said second biasing means is a coil spring being effective for applying a torsional force to one of said gripper jaws. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said flexible horizontal member is a flat spring. 21. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein said circular cam is rotated in only one direction to effect both the grasping and releasing of said media cartridge. 22. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein each of said first and said second lobes has a gradual slope such that a maximum height, relative to said center plane, of each of said first and said second lobes exists at a rotational arcuate angle at least 30 degrees from a minimum height of a said surface of said circular cam. 