The disclosure is directed to an apparatus and method for automated edge finishing using hybrid position/force control of an XY table. The disclosure is particularly directed to learning the trajectory of the edge of a workpiece by "guarded moves". Machining is done by controllably moving the XY table, with the workpiece mounted thereon, along the learned trajectory with feedback from a force sensor. Other similar workpieces can be mounted, without a fixture on the XY table, located and the learned trajectory adjusted
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automated edge finishing and deburring of a workpiece comprising: tool means operable at a fixed station; XY table means with a workpiece mounting means trajectory learning means; XY table position controller means for moving an edge of the workpiece along said learned trajectory; and force sensor means affixed on said tool means and operatively connected to said controller means. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein said force sensor means comprises a force sensor that detects X, Y and Z forces. 3. The invention of claim 1 wherein said force sensor means further comprises detection means for correction of said learned trajectory. 4. The invention of claim 1 wherein said XY table position controller means comprises: position control means; velocity control means; and acceleration control means. 5. The invention of claim 1 wherein said trajectory learning means comprises guarded moves means. 6. The invention of claim 1 wherein said trajectory learning means comprises: means for determining coordinates of different points on an edge of a workpiece to be learned; means for projecting an edge normal of the workpiece; means for projecting an edge tangent of the workpiece; means for smoothing said projections; memory means; and output means. 7. The invention of claim 6 wherein said means for determining coordinates of points on an edge of a workpiece comprises using force sensor means. 8. The invention of claim 7 wherein using said force sensor means for determining coordinates of points comprises incremental moveable contact at a predetermined force between said force sensor means and the edge of the workpiece to be learned. 9. The invention of claim 6 wherein said memory means comprises recording X and Y coordinates and edge normal. 10. The invention of claim 6 further comprising means for trajectory offset to compensate for material to be removed from the workpiece. 11. The invention of claim 1 further comprising: means for determining an additional workpiece location; and means for adjusting said learned trajectory. 12. A method of automated edge finishing and deburring of a workpiece comprising the steps of: a) providing a tool means at a fixed station; b) providing an XY table with a workpiece mounted thereon; c) providing means for learning a trajectory of an edge of the workpiece; d) providing means for controllably positioning the workpiece along the learned trajectory; and e) providing a force sensor affixed on the tool and operatively connected to said controller means. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of detecting a path of the workpiece and correcting the learned trajectory. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of learning a trajectory comprises: a) placing a workpiece at a starting point; b) moving the workpiece towards a tool comprising a force sensor; c) indicating edge contact by the tool via the force sensor; d) recording a position of a first edge contact in a control computer; e) withdrawing the workpiece a predetermined distance from the first edge; f) moving the workpiece tangentially another distance; g) moving the workpiece toward a second edge of the workpiece; h) indicating the second edge contact by the tool via the force sensor; i) recording a position of the second edge contact in the control computer; j) projecting a line from the first edge contact to the second edge contact; k) computing an orientation of the projected line as edge tangent; l) computing edge normal as perpendicular to edge tangent; m) recording an angle of edge normal in the control computer; n) withdrawing the workpiece along the edge normal the predetermined distance from the second edge; o) moving the workpiece tangentially another distance in the direction perpendicular to the edge normal; and p) repeating steps g through o for additional edge contacts and edge normals until a trajectory is learned. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of smoothing said learned trajectory. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of offsetting the learned trajectory to compensate for material to be removed from the workpiece. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of moving the workpiece tangentially comprises tangentially moving the workpiece a preselected distance. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of moving the workpiece tangentially comprises tangentially moving the workpiece variable distances. 19. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of: a) determining an additional workpiece location; and b) adjusting the learned trajectory. 