In a convertible TIG, MIG or plasma arc welding system, a cylindrical docking body mountable in a socket at a welding station, has utilities passages therethrough for receiving an elongated metal electrode, shielding and plasma gases, welding potential and cooling water. The electrode passage is threaded at one end to interchangeably mount any of a plurality of electrode feed assemblies for consumable wire or tungsten electrodes. An output fixture is mounted at the other end of the body to receive the electrode and the plasma or shielding gas and pass them from the body. A nozzle assembly is removably mountable on the other end of the docking body in surrounding relationship with the output fixture and the associated tip assembly and communicates with the shielding gas passage for passing shielding gas to the working end of the nozzle. The docking body has internal channels among the passages so as to circulate cooling water through both the output fixture and the nozzle assembly. The working end of the nozzle assembly interchangeably mounts any of a plurality of gas directing assemblies for directing gases relative to the arc. The system can be converted among TIG, MIG and plasma arc welding by simply changing the electrode feed assembly, the tip assembly and the gas directing assembly. Alternatively, the entire nozzle assembly can be replaced with one designed for TIG or MIG welding.
Claims I claim: 1. In a plasma arc welding system including a tip assembly for guiding an elongated metal electrode toward an associated workpiece at a welding station and applying welding voltage to the electrode, a nozzle assembly surrounding the tip assembly for channeling a plasma gas and a shielding gas relative to the welding arc, and utilities delivery means for delivering to the welding station utilities such as welding voltage, arc plasma gas, arc shielding gas, and metal electrode, a quick connect and disconnect docking assembly comprising: a docking body disposed at the welding station and having utilities passages therethrough, means connecting said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving the electrode and the plasma and shielding gases into said passages, an output fixture carried by said docking body and communicating with selected ones of said passages for directing the electrode and plasma gas from said docking body, means on said output fixture for removably mounting the tip assembly thereon in a use configuration receiving the electrode with said output fixture providing an electrical connection between said docking body and the tip assembly, first coupling means on said docking body, second coupling means non-removably mounted on the nozzle assembly, said first and second coupling means being manually removably engageable with each other without the use of tools for mounting the nozzle assembly on said docking body in a mounted condition in surrounding relationship with the tip assembly and in communication with at least one other passage for receiving the plasma gas and the shielding gas, and means electrically insulating said docking body from the nozzle assembly, whereby the nozzle assembly can readily be mounted and demounted at the welding station without affecting the utilities delivery means upstream of the welding station. 2. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said connecting means delivers the electrode and the plasma gas respectively into first and second passages, said docking body including channel means internally thereof providing communication between said first and second passages so that said plasma gas exits said docking body from said first passage. 3. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein the shielding gas exits said docking body externally of said output fixture. 4. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein the utilities delivery means delivers cooling fluid to the welding station, said docking body including cooling fluid passages therethrough, said cooling fluid passages being disposed in communication with the nozzle assembly in its mounted condition for circulating cooling fluid through the nozzle assembly. 5. The docking assembly of claim 4, wherein said docking body further includes valve means disposed in said cooling fluid passages for movement between a normal closed condition preventing flow of cooling fluid therethrough and an open condition permitting flow of cooling fluid therethrough, bias means resiliently urging said valve means to the closed condition thereof, and actuator means carried by the nozzle assembly for actuating said valve means to the open condition thereof when the nozzle assembly is in the mounted condition thereof. 6. The docking assembly of claim 5, wherein said docking body has a longitudinal axis, at least one of said cooling fluid passages having a lateral portion extending generally perpendicular to said axis. 7. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said first coupling means includes a threaded portion on said docking body and said second coupling means includes a member threadedly engageable with said threaded portion. 8. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said first coupling means includes receptacle means communicating with ones of said passages other than said selected ones, said second coupling means including plug-type fittings receivable in said receptacle means. 9. In a docking apparatus for coupling a welding nozzle assembly to utilities supplies in an arc welding system, including a docking body having a plurality of passages extending therethrough, a plurality of input connectors carried by the body adjacent to one end thereof and respectively communicating with the passages and adapted for coupling to the utilities supplies, an output fixture carried by the body at the other end thereof and communicating with one of the passages for receiving utilities, and coupling means on the body at the other end thereof for coupling the nozzle assembly thereto, the improvement comprising: channel means disposed internally of the docking body and providing communication between the one passage and a plurality of others of the passage. 10. The docking apparatus of claim 9, wherein said channel means provides communication between the one passage and two other passages. 11. The docking apparatus of claim 10, wherein said channel means provides communication between the one passage and three other passages. 12. The docking apparatus of claim 11, wherein said channel means includes a first channel providing communication between the one passage and a first other passage adjacent to the other end of the docking body, and a second channel providing communication between the one passage and second and third other passages intermediate the ends of the docking body. 13. The docking apparatus of claim 9, wherein the docking body has a longitudinal axis, the one passage extending axially of the docking body. 14. The docking apparatus of claim 9, and further comprising valve means disposed in two of said other passages for movement between a normal closed condition preventing fluid flow therethrough and an open condition permitting fluid flow therethrough. 15. The docking apparatus of claim 9, wherein the docking body is of unitary one-piece construction. 16. In an arc welding system including a tip assembly for guiding an elongated metal electrode toward an associated workpiece at a welding station and applying welding voltage to the electrode, a nozzle assembly surrounding the tip assembly for channeling gas relative to the welding arc, and utilities delivery means for delivering to the welding station utilities such as welding voltage, gas, electrode and cooling fluid, a quick connect and disconnect docking assembly comprising: a docking body disposed at the welding station and having utilities passages therethrough, means connecting said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving the electrode and the fluid utilities into said passages, an output fixture carried by said docking body and communicating with selected ones of said passages for passing the electrode and gas from said docking body, cavity means in said output fixture communicating with others of said passages for circulating cooling fluid within said output fixture, means on said output fixture for removably mounting the tip assembly thereon in a use configuration receiving the electrode with said output fixture providing an electrical connection between said docking body and the tip assembly, first coupling means on said docking body, second coupling means non-removably mounted on the nozzle assembly, said first and second coupling means being manually removably engageable with each other without the use of tools for mounting the nozzle assembly on said docking body in a mounted condition in surrounding relationship with the tip assembly for receiving the gas, and means electrically insulating said docking body from the nozzle assembly in its mounted condition, whereby the nozzle assembly can readily be mounted and demounted at the welding station without affecting the utilities delivery means upstream of the welding-station. 17. The docking assembly of claim 16, wherein said cavity means includes two elongated channels communicating with said others of said passages and respectively extending along opposite sides of said output fixture, and an annular portion disposed adjacent to the distal end of said output fixture and providing communication between said channels. 18. The docking assembly of claim 17, wherein said output fixture includes inner and outer tubular bodies disposed one within the other and cooperating to define said cavity means. 19. The docking assembly of claim 18, wherein said output fixture and said cavity means therein extend into one of said selected ones of said passages, said docking body including channel means providing communication between said others of said passages and said one passage at the inner end of said cavity means for circulating cooling fluid through said cavity means. 20. The docking assembly of claim 11, wherein the utilities delivery means delivers shielding gas and plasma gas to the welding station, said output fixture communicating with said selected ones of said passages for passing plasma gas from said docking body, said docking body further including a passage for receiving shielding gas from the utilities delivery means and passing it from said docking body externally of said output fixture. 21. The docking assembly of claim 16, wherein said docking body includes channel means providing communication between said selected ones of said passages for delivering gas into said output fixture. 22. A nozzle for use with a plasma arc welding assembly including a shielding gas delivery port and an output fixture for delivering plasma gas and carrying a contact tip assembly for guiding an elongated metal electrode toward an associated workpiece and applying welding voltage to the electrode, said nozzle comprising: an elongated tubular inner body defining a first passage extending between an inlet end and a working end, an elongated tubular outer body coaxially surrounding said inner body and coupled thereto and cooperating therewith to define therebetween an annular second passage extending between said inlet end and said working end, coupling means for removably coupling said nozzle to the arc welding assembly in a mounted condition wherein the output fixture is received in said first passage with said contact tip assembly disposed adjacent to said working end, and transfer means communicating with said second passage and adapted for communication with the delivery port when said nozzle is disposed in its mounted condition for delivering said shielding gas to said working end. 23. The nozzle of claim 22, and further comprising means electrically insulating nozzle in its mounted condition from the associated arc welding assembly. 24. The nozzle of claim 23, wherein said insulating means includes sleeve means disposed within said inner body and electrically insulating said inner body from the output fixture. 25. The nozzle of claim 22, and further comprising an elongated tubular intermediate body disposed coaxially between said inner and outer bodies for cooperation with said outer body to define said second passage, said intermediate body cooperating with said inner body to define a cooling fluid cavity there between, said transfer means including means communicating with said cavity and adapted for communication with associated cooling fluid means of the associated arc welding assembly when said nozzle is disposed in its mounted condition. 26. The nozzle of claim 25, wherein said cavity includes a pair of cooling fluid channels respectively formed along opposite sides of said inner body. 27. The nozzle of claim 26, wherein said transfer means includes three plug-type fittings respectively communicating with said second passage and said channels and adapted to be received respectively into female receptacles in the associated arc welding assembly. 28. The nozzle of claim 26, wherein said cavity further includes a peripheral portion adjacent to said working end of said inner body for providing communication between said channels. 29. The nozzle of claim 28, wherein said peripheral portion extends through said inner body, and further comprising a push-in constricting member telescopically receivable in said working end of said inner body for cooperation therewith to define said peripheral portion and shaped and dimensioned for constricting the flow of plasma gas from the output fixture, and stop means limiting the depth of insertion of said constricting member in said inner body. 30. The nozzle of claim 29, and further comprising seal means providing a fluid-tight seal between said inner body and said constricting member around said peripheral portion for preventing the escape of cooling fluid therefrom. 31. In an arc welding system including utilities delivery means for delivering to a welding station utilities including welding voltage, plasma and arc shielding gases, an elongated metal electrode and cooling fluid, a welding torch assembly convertible among plasma arc welding ("PAW"), tungsten inert gas ("TIG") arc welding and metal inert gas ("MIG") arc welding comprising: a utilities distribution body disposed at the welding station and having utilities passages therethrough; means connecting said body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving the electrode and the fluid utilities into said passages; a fluid-cooled output fixture carried by said body and communicating with selected ones of said passages for circulating cooling fluid through said output fixture and for passing the electrode and plasma gas from said body; means on said output fixture for interchangeably mounting thereon any of a plurality of tip assemblies adapted for PAW, TIG and MIG welding in a use configuration receiving the electrode into the tip assembly with said output fixture cooperating with the tip assembly to provide an electrical connection between said body and the electrode; means on said body for interchangeably mounting any of a plurality of electrode feed assemblies adapted for PAW, TIG and MIG welding for advancing a metal electrode through said body and said output fixture and an associated tip assembly; a fluid-cooled nozzle carried by said body in surrounding relationship with said output fixture and the associated tip assembly and having a distal working end disposable in use adjacent to an associated workpiece and serving to channel plasma gas from said output fixture to said working end, said nozzle communicating with selected ones of said passages for circulating cooling fluid through said nozzle and for passing shielding gas to said working end; and means on said nozzle adjacent to said working end for interchangeably mounting any of a plurality of gas-directing assemblies adapted for PAW, TIG and MIG welding for directing gases relative to the arc. 32. The welding torch assembly of claim 31, wherein said nozzle has an axial bore therethrough accommodating said output fixture and the associate tip assembly, a pair of cooling fluid channels respectively formed along opposite sides of said nozzle, and a peripheral cavity portion adjacent to said working end and providing communication between said channels. 33. The welding torch assembly of claim 32, wherein said cavity portion extends through said nozzle to said axial bore, and further comprising a push-in gas directing member telescopically receivable in said nozzle at said working end for cooperation therewith to define said peripheral cavity portion and shaped and dimensioned for constricting the flow of plasma gas from said output fixture, and stop means limiting the depth of insertion of said gas-directing member in said nozzle. 34. The welding torch assembly of claim 33, and further comprising seal means providing a fluid-tight seal between said nozzle and said gas-directing member around said peripheral cavity portion for preventing the escape of cooling fluid therefrom. 35. The welding torch assembly of claim 31, and further comprising means electrically insulating said nozzle from said body and said output fixture and the associated tip assembly. 36. The welding torch assembly of claim 31, wherein said body includes valve means disposed in two of said utilities passages adapted for carrying cooling fluid for movement between a normal closed condition preventing flow of cooling fluid therethrough and an open condition permitting flow of cooling fluid therethrough. 37. The welding torch assembly of claim 31, and further comprising coupling means removably mounting said nozzle on said body. 38. The welding torch assembly of claim 37, wherein said coupling means includes a threaded portion on said body and a member non-removably mounted on said nozzle and threadedly engaged with said threaded portion. 39. The welding torch assembly of claim 38, wherein said coupling means includes receptacle means on said body and plug-type fittings on said nozzle receivable in said receptacle means. 