A mobile robot for traversing any surface consisting of a number of interconnected segments, each interconnected segment having a first "U" frame member, a second "U" frame member, a compliant joint between the first "U" frame member and the second "U" frame member, a number of linear actuators between the two frame members acting to provide relative displacement between the frame members, a foot attached to the second "U" frame member for adherence of the segment to the surface, an inter-segment attachment attached to the first "U" frame member for interconnecting the segments, a power source connected to the linear actuators, and a computer/controller for independently controlling each linear actuator in each interconnected segment such that the mobile robot moves in a caterpillar like fashion.
Claims I claim: 1. A mobile robot for traversing a surface comprising: a plurality of interconnected segments, each said interconnected segment comprising: a first frame member; second frame member; a compliant joint between said first frame member and said second frame member; a plurality of linear actuators affixed between said first frame member and said second frame member, said actuators acting to provide relative displacement between said first and second frame members; means affixed to said second frame member for adherence of said segment to said surface; inter-segment attachment means affixed to said first frame member for interconnecting said plurality of segments; a power source connected to said linear actuators; means for independently controlling each said linear actuator in each said interconnected segment such that said mobile robot moves in a caterpillar like fashion; said inter-segment attachment means comprises a rigid cylindrical bracket. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said compliant joint between said first frame member and said second frame member comprises one or more cable segments affixed between said second frame member and said first frame member. 3. The robot of claim 2 wherein said cable segments are affixed between said second frame member and said first frame member by a plurality of stiffeners, said cable segments secured to said stiffeners with said first frame member having at least one stiffener affixed at either end and said second frame member having at least one stiffener affixed at either end, and at least four end retainers bent 90.degree. and circumferentially interposed between the adjacent ends of said frame members thereby forming four corners on said cable segments. 4. The robot of claim 3 wherein said plurality of linear actuators affixed between said first frame member and said second frame member comprises four linear actuators. 5. The robot of claim 4 wherein said power source for said linear actuators comprises pneumatic power. 6. The robot of claim 4 wherein said power source for said linear actuators comprises hydraulic power. 7. The robot of claim 4 wherein said power source for said linear actuators comprises electric power. 8. The robot of claim 3 wherein said means affixed to said second frame member for adherence of said segment to said surface comprises an electromagnetic foot. 9. The robot of claim 8 wherein said electromagnetic foot is contoured to fit a particular surface. 10. The robot of claim 3 wherein said means affixed to said second frame member for adherence of said segment to said surface comprises an air cushioned foot. 11. The robot of claim 3 wherein said means affixed to said second frame member for adherence of said segment to said surface comprises a suction cup foot. 12. The robot of claim 3 wherein said means affixed to said second frame member for adherence of said segment to said surface comprises a plurality of wheels. 13. The robot of claim 3 wherein said means affixed to said second frame member for adherence of said segment to said surface comprises a gripper as a foot. 14. The robot of claim 3 wherein said first and said second frame members are "U" shaped. 15. The robot of claim 3 wherein said means for independently controlling each said linear actuator in each said interconnected segment such that said mobile robot moves in a caterpillar like fashion comprises: a computer means; and means connected to said computer for selectively controlling said power source connected to said linear actuators. 16. The robot of claim 15 further comprising a state controller for each said segment. 17. A mobile robot for traversing a surface comprising: a plurality of interconnected segments, each said interconnected segment comprising: a first frame member; second frame member; a compliant joint between said first frame member and said second frame member; a plurality of linear actuators affixed between said first frame member and said second frame member, said actuators acting to provide relative displacement between said first and second frame members; means affixed to said second frame member for adherence of said segment to said surface; inter-segment attachment means affixed to said first frame member for interconnecting said plurality of segments; a power source connected to said linear actuators; means for independently controlling each said linear actuator in each said interconnected segment such that said mobile robot moves in a caterpillar like fashion; said inter-segment attachment means comprises a gimbled bracket. 