A system for coupling an orbital replacement unit (ORU) to a space station structure via the actions of a robot and/or astronaut. A first female spline connector is located on the space station structure, a male spline connector is positioned on the ORU to connect to the first female spline connector, and a second female spline connector is located on the ORU. A compliant drive rod interconnects the second female spline connector and the male spline connector. A robotic end effector is used for mating with and driving the second female spline connector. Also included are alignment tabs located on the ORU for berthing with the space station structure. The first and second female spline connectors each include a threaded bolt having a captured nut located thereon which can translate up and down the bolt but are constrained from rotation. The nut has a mounting surface with a first electrical connector for translating with the nut. A complementary second electrical connector on the ORU mates with the first electrical connector on the nut. When the driver on the robotic end effector mates with the second female spline connector and rotates, the male spline connector and the first female spline connector lock together, the driver and the second female spline connector lock together, and the nut translates up the threaded bolt carrying the first electrical connector up to the complementary second connector for interconnection.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for coupling an orbital replacement unit to a space station structure comprising: a first female type spline connecting means selectively located on said space station structure; a male type spline connecting means positioned on said orbital replacement unit so as to mate with and connect to said first female type spline connecting means; a second female type spline connecting means located on said orbital replacement unit; a compliant drive rod interconnecting said second female type spline connecting means and said male type spline connecting means; means for mating with and driving said second female type spline connecting means; first type alignment means exteriorally located on said orbital replacement unit for berthing with said space station structure; second type alignment means exteriorally located on said space station structure for receiving said first type alignment means; said first and said second female type spline connecting means each including a threaded bolt member having a captured nut member located thereon which can translate up and down the bolt but is constrained from rotation thereabout, said nut member having a mounting surface; at least one first type electrical connector located on said mounting surface for translating with said nut member; at least one complementary second type electrical connector on said orbital replacement unit for mating with said at least one first type electrical connector on the mounting surface of said nut member; whereby when said means for mating with and driving said second female type spline connecting means mates with said second female type spline connecting means and is driven, said male type spline connecting means and said first female type spline connecting means lock together, and said means for mating with and driving said second female type spline connecting means and said second female type spline connecting means lock together, and said nut members translate up the threaded bolt members carrying said first type electrical connector up to said complementary second type connector for interconnection therewith. 2. The system of claim 1 further including a preload spring providing bias to each said threaded bolt member. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said compliant drive rod includes an upper drive rod and a lower drive rod with a compliance spring therebetween with said upper and lower drive rods being splined together. 4. The system of claim 3 further including a reaction bearing between said lower drive rod and a lower surface of said orbital replacement unit. 