The invention relates to a refrigerator for receiving foodstuffs and/or beverages, the refrigerator containing a travelling carriage, more particularly taking the form of a robot, which contains a refrigerated reception space for foodstuffs and/or beverages and can be driven out of the refrigerator and controlled automatically and/or remotely via an electronic system.
Claims I claim: 1. A remote controlled robotic refrigerator system comprising: remote control means for transmitting a signal; a refrigerator spaced from said control means and comprising: a housing having a bottom formed with an opening, a movable carriage received in said opening and formed with a refrigerated reception compartment, a drive on said carriage, and means on said carriage for receiving said signal and for actuating said drive, said carriage being controllably driven out of said opening along a path outside said housing toward said remote control means and being retracted back into said opening in response to said signal. 2. The refrigerator system defined in claim 1 wherein said refrigerator is provided with a cooling system mounted on said housing, said means on said carriage for receiving said signal including: means for storing said path toward said remote control means, so that said carriage is automatically driven back into said opening along said path. 3. The refrigerator system defined in claim 1 wherein said carriage is provided with a heat absorber. 4. The refrigerator system defined in claim 1 wherein said remote control means transmits an acoustic signal. 5. The refrigerator system defined in claim 1 wherein said remote control means transmits a nonacoustic signal. 6. The refrigerator defined in claim 1 wherein said sensor means includes at least one sensor preventing said carriage from running into objects along said path. 7. The refrigerator system defined in claim 1, further comprising a guide path, said carriage being formed with means guiding said carriage along said path. 