A waveform generator for a resolver transducer or the like is described. Such generator forms two 3-level waveforms which approximate sinusoidal waveforms for the excitation and/or output detection of such a resolver. Each of the sinusoidal waveforms is formed by combining a pair of digitally programmed bi-state signals which have their phases shifted relative to one another by an amount proportional to an angular input variable. The result is that the amplitude of these sinusoidal waveforms which are formed are representative of the sine and cosine of such variable.
Claims I claim: 1. A waveform generator for a resolver comprising: means for forming a first bi-state electrical input signal approximating a first sinusoidal waveform having a first phase; means for forming a second bi-state electrical input signal approximating a second sinusoidal waveform having generally the same frequency as said first sinusoidal waveform and a second phase having a first phase relationship with said first phase that is proportional to a first value of an input variable; means for summing said first and second bi-state electrical signals while said first phase relationship therebetween is maintained, thereby to generate a first 3-level electrical output signal representative of a third sinusoidal waveform having a maximum amplitude proportional to a sine of said variable; means for forming a third bi-state electrical input signal approximating a fourth sinusoidal waveform having a third phase; means for forming a fourth bi-state electrical input signal approximating a fifth sinusoidal waveform having generally the same frequency as said fourth sinusoidal waveform and a fourth phase having a second phase relationship with said third phase proportional to a second value of said variable; and means for summing said third and fourth bi-state electrical signals while said second phase relationship therebetween is maintained, thereby to generate a second 3-level electrical output signal representative of a sixth sinusoidal waveform having a maximum amplitude proportional to a cosine of said variable. 2. The waveform generator of claim 1 further including means for separately exciting individual ones of a pair of stators of a resolver with respective ones of said first and second 3-level electrical signals. 3. The waveform generator of claim 1 further including means for respectively combining each of said 3-level electrical signals with a respective one of the outputs of a pair of stators of a resolver to enable the first value of said input variable to be calculated. 