The gripper mechanism is housed in a substantially rectangular box-like enclosure and includes a plurality of guide rails to align and support an object retrieved from an object storage location by the finger gripper mechanism. The finger gripper mechanism is attached to a carriage which functions to translate the finger gripper mechanism from a position proximate to the object storage location to a position within the enclosure. A degree of compliance between the gripper fingers and the object in the selected object storage location is provided by a centering spring that functions to couple the finger gripper mechanism to the carriage.
Claims I claim: 1. In an object handling system that includes a robotic manipulator for transporting objects, an object retrieval apparatus, located at an end of said robotic manipulator, for retrieving an object from an object storage location comprising: means for gripping said object to securely hold said object; means for translating said gripping means in a direction to remove said object from its object storage location; means for flexibly connecting said gripping means to said translating means to enable said gripping means to be displaceable with respect to a predetermined locus on said translating means; and means, engagable with said object, for automatically positioning said object as it is removed from said object storage location to a position in alignment with said predetermined locus on said translating means, comprising: a plurality of rails, aligned parallel to each other and positioned to form a pocket to receive said object. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said flexibly connecting means is responsive to a positional misalignment between said object and said predetermined locus on said translating means for enabling said gripping means to displace with respect to said translating means in a direction to compensate for said misalignment when said gripping means contacts said object. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said flexibly connecting means comprises: spring means attached to said gripping means for coupling said gripping means to said translating means. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said positioning means translates said gripping means to a position in alignment with said predetermined locus on said translating means as said object is moved to said position in alignment with said predetermined locus on said translating means. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said object comprises a substantially rectangular shaped object, said plurality of rails comprise four rails, aligned to contact a corresponding one of four edges of said substantially rectangular-shaped object as said substantially rectangular-shaped object is withdrawn from said object storage location. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said positioning means comprises: a plurality of springs, each of which is attached to a corresponding one of said plurality of rails, deformable from a preloaded position substantially in alignment with said predetermined locus on said translating means by said object being loaded from said object storage location into said pocket formed by said plurality of rails, and which apply a force to said object in a direction opposite said deformation to place said object substantially in alignment with said predetermined locus on said translating means once said object is removed from said object storage location. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising: means for enclosing said positioning means for providing a rigid frame of reference for said positioning means; and wherein said of said plurality of springs have a first end and a second end, where said first end is attached to said enclosing means and said second end is attached to said corresponding rail. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said rails has a first end, proximate to said object storage location, and tapered to funnel said object from said object storage location into contact with said plurality of rails. 9. In an object handling system that includes a robotic manipulator for transporting objects, an object retrieval apparatus, located at an end of said robotic manipulator which positions said object retrieval apparatus opposite an object storage location, for retrieving an object from said object storage location, comprising: means for gripping said object to securely hold said object; means for translating said gripping means along a path of predetermined extent from a first position juxtaposed to said object storage location, where said gripping means contacts said object, to a second position in a direction to remove said object from its object storage location, comprising: carriage means, having first and second ends, for translating between said first and second positions when said object retrieval apparatus is positioned opposite said object storage location; first and second tracks aligned parallel to each other and parallel to said path for receiving said first and second ends of said carriage means to guide said carriage means along said path; first and second belt drive means, substantially coextensive with said first and second tracks, respectively, for displacing said carriage means in said direction, which is parallel to said first and second tracks, to cause said carriage means to move along said first and second tracks in said direction; means for driving said first and second belt means to produce said displacement; and means for flexibly connecting said gripping means to said carriage means to enable said gripping means to be displaced with respect to a predetermined locus on said carriage means; and means, engageable with said object wherein said object comprises a substantially rectangular-shaped object box-like structure, for automatically positioning said object as it is removed from said object storage location to a position in alignment with a predetermined locus on said carriage means, comprising: a plurality of rails, aligned parallel to each other and positioned to form a pocket to receive said substantially rectangular-shaped object. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said first and second belt drive means each comprises: a drive gear means rotatably connected to said driving means and located proximate said second position; an idler pulley means, rotatable, and located proximate said first position; toothed belt means, connected to said carriage means, forming a continuous loop encircling and engaging said drive gear means and said idler pulley means; and wherein said driving means rotates said drive gear means, engaging said toothed belt means which translates around said idler pulley means, displacing said attached carriage means along said path. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said flexibly connecting means is responsive to a positional misalignment between said object and said predetermined locus on said carriage means for enabling said gripping means to translate with respect to said carriage means in a direction to compensate for said misalignment when said gripping means contacts said object. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said flexibly connecting means comprises: spring means attached to said gripping means for coupling said gripping means to said carriage means. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said positioning means enables said gripping means to align with said predetermined locus as said object is moved to said position in alignment with said predetermined locus on said carriage means. 14. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said plurality of rails comprise four rails, aligned to contact a corresponding one of four edges of said substantially rectangular-shaped object as said substantially rectangular-shaped object is withdrawn from said object storage location. 15. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said positioning means comprises: a plurality of springs, each of which is attached to corresponding one of said plurality of rails, deformable from a preloaded position substantially in alignment with said predetermined locus on said carriage means by said substantially rectangular-shaped object being loaded from said object storage location into said pocket formed by said plurality of rails, and which apply a force to said substantially rectangular-shaped object in a direction opposite said deformation to substantially center said substantially rectangular-shaped object in alignment with said predetermined locus on said carriage means once said substantially rectangular-shaped object is removed from said object storage location. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising: means for enclosing said positioning means for providing a rigid frame of reference for said positioning means; and wherein each of said plurality of springs have a first end and a second end, where said first end is attached to said enclosing means and said second end is attached to said corresponding rail. 