Disclosed is an automatic, self propelled lawn mower that references its position within a cutting area using electronically stored path and terrain information as a primary navigation system, senses a non magnetic, non-current carrying metallic guide path as a secondary navigation system, senses underground metallic references for use as position reference points as a further navigation system, incorporates an ultrasonic obstacle detection system to stop the vehicle if unexpected obstacles are encountered. The vehicle further includes a cow-catcher front bumper arrangement to divert small objects away from the cutting blades, contains bumper switches to shut off the vehicle upon contact with large objects, contains an inclinometer sensor to halt the vehicle during unexpected tilting, incorporates a radio communications link to notify an off-board monitoring system of problems, contains an on-board power generation system using an internal combustion engine, generator, and a battery arrangement. The lawn mower also provides a navigation controller and servo motor positioning system that plans path motion, using sensory data and stored map data and to turn the drive wheels to propell the vehicle in the desired manner.
Claims We claim: 1. An autonomous lawn mower operative to self navigate along a prescribed path in accordance with stored route information compared with information from position markers spaced along the prescribed path comprising: a body for supporting components of the lawn mower; a power generation means supported by said body for supplying power to the lawn mower; a plurality of wheels supporting said body; at least one cutting means driven by said power generation means, with said cutting means extending below said body; central processor means mounted on said body which includes stored route information including identity and position information indicative of the identity and position of said spaced position markers; sensing means mounted on said body and operative to sense the presence of a position marker and the position of said position marker relative to said body, said sensing means being connected to said central processor means and operating to transmit a data signal to said central processor means when a position marker is sensed, said processor means operating in response to a data signal from said sensing means to compare said data signal with the stored identity and position information for said spaced position markers to determine an actual position, and control means mounted on said body and connected to said central processor means for controlling the movement of the lawn mower along the prescribed path, said central processor means operating to provide a correction signal to said control means in response to a deviation of said actual position from the prescribed path, said control means operating to correct the travel of the lawn mower in response to a deviation signal. 2. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1, wherein said position markers are passive underground references positioned along the prescribed path. 3. The lawn mower as defined in claim 2, wherein said passive underground references are metallic. 4. The lawn mower as defined in claim 3, further comprising a plurality of spaced metal detectors mounted on said body for detecting the presence of said metallic passive underground references. 5. The lawn mower as defined in claim 4, wherein said underground passive references include an elongated substantially continuous strip which designates a section of the prescribed path defined by the stored route information, said strip being sensed by said metal detectors to guide the lawn mower. 6. The lawn mower as defined in claim 4, wherein said underground passive references include a plurality of differently shaped metallic disks positioned about an area to be mowed, said shape of said disks being sensed by said sensing means to identify a predetermined position of the lawn mower during a mowing cycle. 7. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1, further comprising a tilt sensor mounted on said body for determining the attitude of the body in comparison to the horizontal, and means for stopping the power generation means in response to a sensed attitude greater than a predetermined acceptable attitude. 8. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1, further comprising a bumper arrangement for diverting small objects out of the path of the lawn mower, said bumper arrangement further comprising means for stopping the power generation means in response to said bumper arrangement contacting oversized objects. 9. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1, wherein said power generation means is an engine and further comprising an engine speed indication means for monitoring the engine speed and providing an engine speed signal to said central processor means, said central processor means operating in response to variations in said engine speed signal to vary the speed of said lawn mower. 10. The lawn mower as defined in claim 9, further comprising a relay placed in series with a spark plug of the engine to stop the engine in response to the presence of an abnormal operating condition. 11. The lawn mower as defined in claim 10, further comprising a warning means for indicating the occurrence of said abnormal operating condition. 12. The lawn mower as defined in claim 11, further comprising signal generation means for generating a radio signal indicative of the presence of the abnormal condition, said signal being received by a remote receiver. 13. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1, wherein the position markers are uniquely shaped metallic markers installed along the prescribed path, the actual position of the vehicle on the prescribed path being determined by: said sensing means including an array of sensors operating to collect data at fixed distance increments over a predetermined area where a position marker is prescribed by said stored location data to exist; said processor means being operative to store the data in an electronic memory as a 2-D array in which the data contained in the 2-D array is governed by: SV is the number of sensor values contained in the 2-D array describing the shape of the marker; N is the number of sensors in an array; d is the distance the lawn mower travels between sensor array updates; and L is the path length the lawn mower travels; the processor means operating to produce a low resolution image depicting the shape of said position marker; and further operating to match the shape of the position marker to stored identity and position information that symbolizes a predetermined landmark of known coordinates. 14. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1 wherein said stored route information in said central processor means includes terrain feature data, said central processor means operating in response to said terrain feature data to provide speed control signals to said control means, said control means operating in response to said speed control signals to vary the speed of said lawn mower in accordance with said terrain feature data. 15. The lawn mower as defined in claim 14 where a tilt sensor means is mounted on said body, said tilt sensor means operating to provide tilt data signals to said central processor means indicative of the attitude of the body relative to the horizontal, said processor means operating to compare said tilt data signals to the stored terrain feature data for the location of the lawn mower and to terminate operation of the lawn mower when the tilt data signals fail to correspond with the stored terrain feature data. 16. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1, wherein said central processor means operates in response to a failure to receive a data signal which corresponds to stored identity and position information to terminate operation of said lawn mower. 17. The lawn mower as defined by claim 1, wherein drive means are provided on said body to drive at least one of said wheels, said drive means being connected for control by said control means, and wheel position encoding means are provided to sense the rotational position of each driven wheel, said wheel position encoding means operating to provide drive wheel rotational position data signals to each driven wheel to said central processor means. 18. The lawn mower as defined by claim 1, wherein two of said wheels are mounted on said body in spaced opposed relationship and drive means are provided on said body for driving said wheels, said drive means being connected to said control means for control thereby and including a separate electric motor for driving each said wheel, the speed at which each said electric motor drives an associated wheel relative to the speed of the remaining driven wheel being varied by said control means to maintain the mower on said prescribed path, said central processor means operating to provide correction signals to said driven wheel on the body to control the path which the mower follows. 19. The lawn mower as defined by claim 18 wherein said driven wheels are rotatable but fixed and non-pivotable relative to said body. 20. The lawn mower as defined by claim 19 wherein wheel position encoding means are provided on said body to sense the rotational position of each driven wheel, said wheel position encoding means operating to provide drive wheel rotational position data signals for each driven wheel to said central processor means. 21. The lawn mower as defined in claim 20, wherein central processor means operates in response to a failure to receive a data signal which corresponds to stored identity and position information to terminate operation of said lawn mower, and wherein said stored route information in said central processor means includes terrain feature data, said central processor means operating in response to said terrain feature data to provide speed control signals to said control means which cause said control means to vary the speed at which each electric motor drives an associated wheel in accordance with said terrain feature data. 22. The lawn mower as defined in claim 1, further comprising a safety means mounted on said body, said safety means including at least one ultrasonic sensor for sensing the presence of obstacles in the path of the lawn mower and means for stopping said power generation means in response to an obstacle being sensed. 23. A method for controlling the operation of an autonomous vehicle in accordance with stored route information compared and updated by spaced position markers and conditions occurring along a prescribed path, said method including: providing a self propelled vehicle having a central processor for receiving and storing data; initially providing reference data to said central processor for storage therein which includes data defining the location of said spaced position markers and data defining the prescribed path to be followed as well as conditions to be encountered at predetermined positions along the path; initiating the vehicles motion along the prescribed path under the control of the stored data defining the prescribed path; monitoring an actual position of the vehicle along the prescribed path by sensing the position of the vehicle relative to said position markers and updating the actual position in said processor means when a position marker is sensed; and adjusting the vehicle's position with respect to the prescribed path if the actual position deviates from the prescribed path. 24. The method as defined in claim 23, wherein the step of monitoring the actual position of the vehicle includes comparing the sensed position marker location with the stored data defining the location of the sensed position marker. 25. An autonomous lawn mower operative to self navigate along a prescribed path in accordance with stored route information which includes terrain feature data comprising: a body for supporting components of the lawn mower; a power generation means supported by said body for supplying power to the lawn mower; a plurality of wheels supporting said body; central processor means mounted on said body which includes said stored route information; and control means mounted on said body and connected to said central processor means for controlling the movement of the lawn mower; said central processor means operating in response to said stored terrain feature data to provide speed control signals to said control means, said control means operating in response to said speed control signals to vary the speed of said lawn mower in accordance with said stored terrain feature data. 26. The lawn mower as defined in claim 25 wherein a tilt sensor means is mounted on said body and is connected to said central processor means, said tilt sensor means operating to provide tilt data signals to said central processor means indicative of the attitude of the body relative to the horizontal, said processor means operating to compare said tilt data signals to the stored terrain feature data for the location of the lawn mower along the prescribed path and to terminate operation of the lawn mower when the tilt data signals fail to correspond with the stored terrain feature data. 27. The lawn mower as defined in claim 26 wherein said central processor means is connected to said power generation means and operates to terminate operation of said power generation means when said tilt data signal indicates that the attitude of the body is such that the lawn mower is in danger of tipping over. 28. The lawn mower as defined in claim 27 wherein a cutting means is mounted on said body, said power generation means including a motor connected to drive said cutting means and motor RPM sensing means connected to said motor, said motor RPM sensing means being connected to said central processor means and operating to provide a motor speed signal to said central processing means, said central processing means operating in response to a drop in motor speed to cause said control means to reduce the speed of said lawn mower. 