The present invention is drawn to various aspects of automated excision of undesirable material (and optionally excision of bone) from meat, and automated production of starting material for restructured meat, including: (a) an apparatus and method generally drawn to, optical detection of the location of undesirable material in meat, communication of information regarding the location of the undesirable material to a control means, and excision of the undesirable material from the meat using a high pressure water jet controlled by the control means; (b) a bone location sensor and method of bone location sensing, each employing a plurality of needles, and; (c) a multiple blade slicer.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for detecting and locating undesirable material in meat comprising, a plurality of needles with electrically non-conductive guides for each said needle, retaining means for retaining all said needles so that each said needle is individually displaceable along its longitudinal center axis, detecting means for detecting whether or not each of said plurality of needles is displaced along its longitudinal center axis, which includes an individual switch contact for each said plurality of needles and a common switch contact for all of said needles, and means for registering, storing, and communicating said detecting for subsequent control of automated excision of said undesirable material. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further including, biasing means for applying force to each said needle in a first direction, said first direction coinciding with said longitudinal center axis of each said needle, and said detecting means functions to detect movement of each said needle a predetermined distance in a second direction, said second direction being opposite to said first direction. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including, holding means, operatively associated with said retaining means, for holding material, and means for moving said holding means and said retaining means, into proximity with each other so that said needles may engage said material and for subsequently moving said holding means and said retaining means away from each other so that said needles may disengage from said material. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said holding means is a conveyor means, and further including means, operatively associated with said retaining means, for moving said retaining means in synchronization with movement of said conveyor means. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said detecting means includes, electrical contacts for said switch contacts operatively associated with each said needle. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said plurality of needles are arranged side-by-side in a rectangular array. 7. A method for detecting and locating undesirable material in meat, comprising, providing a plurality of needles with electrically non-conductive guides for each said needle, providing retaining means for retaining all said needles so that each said needle is individually displaceable along its longitudinal center axis, detecting whether or not each said needle is displaced along its longitudinal axis wherein a common switch contact for all of said needles comes into contact with an individual switch contact for each of said plurality of needles, and registering, storing, and communicating the individual switch contact for each said needle, to locate each point of contact for subsequent control of automated excision of said undesirable material. 8. The method of claim 7 further including, applying biasing force to each said needle in a first direction, said first direction coinciding with said longitudinal center axis of each said needle, and said step of detecting includes detecting displacement of each said needle a predetermined distance in a second direction, said second direction being opposite to said first direction. 9. The method of claim 7 further including the steps of, moving said retaining means into proximity with a material so that said needles engage said material, and moving said retaining means away from said material so that said needles disengage from said material. 10. The method of claim 9 further including the steps of, moving said material on a conveyor means, and moving said retaining means in synchronization with movement of said conveyor means during said steps of engaging and disengaging. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein said needles are arranged side-by-side in a rectangular array. 