The apparatus includes a static base, a platform, a first arm assembly, and a second arm assembly. The first arm assembly has a first terminal portion pivotally connected at a first pivot point to a first portion of the static base and a second terminal portion pivotally connected to the platform at a second pivot point. The first arm assembly is so constructed to permit changes in the distance between the first and second pivot points, but is concomitantly constrained to movement in a desired first plane. The second arm assembly has a respective first terminal portion pivotally connected at a third pivot point to a second portion of the static base and a respective second terminal portion pivotally connected to the platform at a fourth pivot point. The second arm assembly is so constructed to permit changes in the distance between the third and fourth pivot points but is constrained to movement in a desired second plane which is angularly disposed from the first plane. The motion of the platform is constrained to a straight line when the distance between the first and second pivot points and/or the distance between the third and fourth pivot points is changed. The straight line has a direction parallel to an imaginary line defined by the intersection of the first and second planes.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. An apparatus for maintaining motion of a platform in a straight line comprising: a) static base; b) a platform; c) a first arm assembly having first terminal portion pivotally connected at a first pivot point to a first portion of said static base and a second terminal portion pivotally connected to said platform at a second pivot point, said first arm assembly being so constructed to permit changes in the distance between said first and second pivot points, but concomitantly being constrained to movement in a desired first plane; and d) a second arm assembly having a respective first terminal portion pivotally connected at a third pivot point to a second portion of said static base and a respective second terminal portion pivotally connected to said platform at a fourth point, said second arm assembly being so constructed to permit changes in the distance between said third and fourth pivot points, but concomitantly being constrained to movement in a desired second plane, which is angularly disposed from said first plane, the motion of said platform being constrained to a straight line when the distance between said first and second pivot points and/or the distance between said third and fourth pivot points is changed, said straight line having a direction parallel to an imaginary line defined by the intersection of said first and second planes, said static base including straight line direction rotary actuation means attached to both arm assemblies for providing adjustments in the angular orientation of the plane of said arm assembly, thereby providing adjustments in the direction of said straight line. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second arm assemblies each comprise: an elbow assembly comprising a first arm pivotally connected to a second arm. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first and second arm assemblies each comprise: a first tube telescopically engaged in a second tube, said first and second tubes being keyed against relative rotation therebetween. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said static base includes platform translation rotary actuation means attached to an arm assembly for providing the desired changes in the distance between said first and second pivot points and/or said third and fourth pivot points. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of said arm assemblies further includes rotary actuation means attached thereto for providing the desired changes in the distance between said first and second pivot points and/or said third and fourth pivot points. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said straight line direction rotary actuation means comprises; a) a fifth pivot point, adjacent to and between said static base and said first pivot point, the axis of said fifth pivot point being perpendicular to the axis of said first pivot point; b) a sixth pivot point, adjacent to and between said platform and said second pivot point, the axis of said sixth point being perpendicular to the axis of said second pivot point; c) a seventh pivot point, adjacent to and between said static base and said third pivot point, the axis of said seventh pivot point being perpendicular to the axis of said third pivot point; and d) an eight pivot point, adjacent to and between said platform and said fourth pivot point, the axis of said eighth pivot point being perpendicular to the axis of said fourth pivot point. 7. An apparatus for maintaining motion of a platform in a straight line, comprising: a) a static base; b) a first elbow assembly comprising a first arm pivotally connected to a second arm, a first terminal portion of said first elbow assembly being pivotally connected to a first portion of said static base, said first elbow assembly being so constructed to be constructed to movement in a desired first plane; c) a second elbow assembly comprising a first arm pivotally connected to a second arm, a first terminal portion of said second elbow assembly being pivotally connected to a second portion of said static base, said second elbow assembly being so constructed to be constructed to movement in a second plane which is angularly disposed from said first plane; and d) a platform pivotally connected to second terminal portion of said first and second elbow assemblies, the motion of said platform being constrained to a straight line having a direction parallel to an imaginary line defined by the intersection of said first and second planes, said static base including straight line direction rotary actuation means attached to both elbow assemblies for providing adjustments in the angular orientation of the plane of said elbow assembly, thereby providing adjustments in the direction of said straight line. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said static base includes platform translation rotary actuation means attached to an elbow assembly for providing the desired changes in the distance between said first and second pivot points and/or said third and fourth pivot points. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein at least one of said elbow assemblies further includes rotary actuation means attached thereto for providing the desired changes in the distance between said first and second pivot points and/or said third and fourth pivot points. 