An end station for an ion implanter includes a loading station, a loadlock station, a vacuum chamber and a wafer handler within the vacuum chamber. The wafer handler includes a wafer-receiving platen assembly on the end of a multiple axis arm system wherein the arm system is capable of positioning the wafer for low and high angle of incidence implantation, rotating the wafer about an axis perpendicular to the wafer surface, and effecting scanning motion of the wafer along a straight line which intercepts the wafer tilt axis in any tilt position of the platen assembly. The invention further includes a loadlock including an upper element receiving wafers from the loading station and a lower element operable to position wafers for engagement by a transfer arm which transfers wafers from the loadlock to the wafer handler.
Claims We claim: 1. In an end station for an ion implanter comprising a vacuum chamber; and a wafer handler within said vacuum chamber; the improvement wherein said wafer handler comprises a first wafer support; means for rotating said first wafer support about a first axis parallel to the surface of a wafer received on said first wafer support and means for translating said first wafer support along a straight line, said straight line intercepting said first axis in any rotational position of said first wafer support about said first axis. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, in which said wafer handler further includes means for rotating said wafer support about a second axis perpendicular to the surface of the wafer. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 in which said means for rotating said wafer support and said means for translating said wafer support include motor drive means mounted outside said vacuum chamber. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 including a loading station; a loadlock station adjacent said loading station, said loadlock station defining an interface between said loading station and said vacuum chamber; means for transferring wafers from said loadlock station to said wafer handler comprising an arm mounted for rotation about a third, vertical axis and for translation along said third axis; first wafer receiving means formed on said arm; and first drive means operable to rotate said arm between a first position wherein said receiving means is in vertical alignment with said first wafer support and a second position wherein said wafer receiving means is within said loadlock. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 4 in which said loadlock station includes a second wafer support; said second wafer support and said first wafer support being disposed on a circle the center of which is said third axis; and said first wafer receiving means being positioned on said arm on a radius of said circle. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5 in which said loadlock station comprises an upper loadlock element operable between a closed condition and an open condition wherein said loadlock station is open to atmosphere; and a lower loadlock element operable between a closed condition and an open condition wherein said loadlock station is open to said vacuum chamber, said lower loadlock element having said second wafer support thereon. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, including linear encoder means mounted on said wafer handle, a drive motor operatively connected to said wafer handle to effect said linear motion, dose measurement means mounted in said vacuum chamber in position to sense the dose of ions received by a wafer on said first wafer support, and motor controller means responsive to said dose measurement means and to the output of said linear encoder to control the speed of said linear motion. 8. In an end station for an ion implanter comprising a vacuum chamber; and a wafer handler within said vacuum chamber; the improvement wherein said wafer handler comprises a first arm rotatable about a first axis; a second arm mounted on a said first arm for relatively rotation therewith, a third arm mounted on said second arm for relative rotation therewith; a first wafer support mounted on said third arm; means for rotating said first, second and third arms as a unit about said first axis, said first axis being parallel to the surface of a wafer receiving on said first wafer support; means for rotating said first arm about said first axis; and means interconnecting said first, second and third arms operable to translate said wafer support along a straight line. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said means for rotating said first arm comprises a drive motor operatively connected to said first arm; said apparatus further including linear encoder means mounted on said wafer handler; dose measurement means mounted in said vacuum chamber in position to sense the dose of ions received by a wafer on said first wafer support; and motor controller means responsive to said dose measurement means and to the output of said linear encoder to control the speed of said drive motor; said linear encoder means comprising a first element mounted on said first arm, and a second element mounted on said third arm. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9 in which said first element comprises an elongated scale member and said second element comprises a sensing element movable along said scale member and operable to produce a signal representative of the position of said sensing element along said scale. 