Electrical resistance spot welding is controlled by stopping the welding current upon detection of indentation of the work pieces by the electrodes. Indentation is detected indirectly by monitoring the deformation on at least one arm supporting an electrode. The piston of the welding gun cylinder is prevented from displacing in direct proportion to displacements of the electrodes during formation of the weld so that the squeezing force applied by the electrodes to the work piece, and therefore the deformation in the electrode holders, varies as a function of electrode displacements.
Claims I claim: 1. An electrical resistance spot welding apparatus that includes a welding gun having means for moving electrodes into and out of squeezing engagement with a work piece, said apparatus comprising: a controllable source of electrical welding current coupled to said electrodes; means for detecting the mechanical deformation in a work piece, said means for detecting further comprising a piezoelectric transducer mounted to said means for moving said electrodes, said piezoelectric transducer producing a continuous electrical signal indicative of said deformation; means for terminating said welding current, said means for terminating continuously receiving and monitoring said electrical signal from said piezoelectric transducer to immediately terminate the welding current when said electrical signal indicates the occurrence of indentation of the weld; and means for locking said means for moving said electrode holders during thermal expansion of the work pieces at the weld sites during formation of the weld, said means for locking operable to prevent movement of said electrodes during said thermal expansion. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for continuously detecting the mechanical deformation comprises a piezoelectric transducer, said transducer producing a signal indicative of the deformation in said means for moving, and wherein said means for controlling is responsive to the sum of the signals. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said piezoelectric transducer is affixed to each of a pair of electrode holders at a location subject to deformation produced by a bending moment in said electrode holder generated by the expansion and contraction of the work piece and electrodes during the welding process. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said means for moving further comprises a pair of hands, each of said pair of hands having one of said pair of electrode holders mounted therein, each said transducer being mounted to said electrode holder adjacent to the respective one of said pair of hands. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for locking comprises a locking device, said device selectively operable to prevent movement of the means for moving the electrodes. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said means for moving said electrodes comprises a cylinder and ram and wherein said means for locking is mounted within said cylinder. 