A combined optical and capacitive absolute positioning encoding system uses a plurality of metallized strips deposited onto a glass scale substrate. A movable transceiver is positioned adjacent to the scale. The transceiver generates interrogating electrical an optical signals which interact with the scale. The movable transceiver also carries with it receiver mechanisms for receiving the signals after interaction with the scale. Signal processing electronics are provided to determine the relative positions of the scale and transceiver by comparing the transmitted, interrogating signals with the received signals. The system is able to determine the relative positions of the scale and transceiver even if power to the system is interrupted, or if the scale and transceiver are moved relative to one another very rapidly.
Claims We claim: 1. An absolute position determination system, comprising: a scale portion having first regular pattern and a second regular pattern interleaved with said first pattern so that said first and second patterns are combined into a single integrated scale pattern, the first and second patterns interacting with first and second interrogating signals of qualitatively different types; a transceiver portion having first and second transmission means for transmitting the first and second interrogating signals to the scale, and also having first and second receiving means for receiving the interrogating signals after interaction with the scale; support means for moveably supporting the scale and transceiver portions relative to each other; signal generating means, connected to the transceiver portion for generating the first and second interrogating signals; and signal processing means electronically coupled to the first and second receiving means, for processing the interrogating signals after interaction with the scale to determine the relative positions of the scale and transceiver portions within a predetermined error margin. 2. The absolute position determination system of claim 1 wherein the signal generating means operates to generate the first interrogating signal as a light beam and also operated to generate the second interrogating signal as a periodic signal. 3. The absolute position determination system of claim 2 wherein the integrated scale pattern has a plurality of parallel metallic strip groups of predetermined width positioned at a regular interval spacing, each metallic strip group having a plurality of parallel optical stripes therein at regular intervals, wherein the first transmission means on the transceiver portion has a light source cooperatively associated with the signal generating means for illuminating the stripes, and wherein the second transmission means on the transceiver portion has a plurality of regularly spaced metallic strips for accepting the periodic signal, the regularly spaced metallic strips positioned so as to be capacitively coupleable to the metallic strip groups of the scale pattern, whereby manufacturing irregularities, physical deformation of the scale portion and changes in temperature tend to affect the optical and capacitive properties of the system equally. 4. The absolute position determination system of claim 3 wherein the second transmission means on the transceiver portion includes two groups of the regularly spaced metallic strips positioned on opposite sides of the light source so that the light source and two groups of the regularly spaced metallic strips are substantially co-linear, whereby the effects of thermal expansion of the transceiver portion tend to affect the optical and capacitive properties of the system equally. 5. The absolute position determination system of claim 3 wherein the regularly spaced metallic strip groups of the scale pattern have transverse conductors interconnecting the strips within each group so that the capacitive characteristic of the group does not substantially change if electrical continuity along the strip is lost. 6. The absolute position determination system of claim 3 wherein the regular interval spacing of the metallic strip groups of the scale pattern is approximately 1.040 mm, wherein each group has a width of approximately 0.340 mm, and wherein each optical stripe has a width of approximately 0.020 mm at the regular spacing of approximately 0.040 mm. 7. The absolute position determination system of claim 3 wherein the signal processing means has an optical scale memory device for remembering optical position data from the first receiving means, a capacitive scale memory device for remembering capacitive position data from the second receiving means, and correction circuitry for updating the optical position data in the optical memory device if the optical position data is not in agreement with the capacitive position data so that the updated optical position data is indicative of the relative positions of the scale and transceiver portions substantially at all times. 8. The absolute position determination system of claim 7 wherein the optical scale memory device has first and second displacement counters each for receiving and storing duplicate sets of the updated optical position data, and serial data readout means for reading out the updated optical position data serially from the second displacement counter without effecting the duplicate set of optical position data stored in the first displacement counter. 9. The absolute position determination system of claim 1 wherein the first transmission means on the transceiver portion includes a substantially monochromatic light source spaced at a gap distance from a source grating to form the first interrogating signal, wherein the integrated scale pattern has a plurality of parallel optical stripes therein at regularly spaced intervals to interact with the first interrogating signal and generate a self image of the optical stripes on the first receiving means on the transceiver portion, and wherein the first receiving means has at least two receiver gratings positioned with respect to each other so as to be substantially 90 degrees out of spatial phase with the optical stripe self-image, whereby an optical quadrature signal having amplitudes indicative of an absolute relative position of the scale and transceiver portions between two adjacent optical stripes is generated on the first receiving means. 10. The absolute position determination system of claim 9 wherein the source and receiver gratings are substantially coplanar. 11. An absolute position determination system, comprising: a scale portion having an optical pattern and a capacitive pattern interleaved into a single integrated scale pattern for interaction with a light interrogating signal and a voltage interrogating signal, respectively; a transceiver portion having optical and capacitive transmission means for transmitting the optical and voltage interrogating signals to the integrated scale pattern, and also having optical and capacitive receiving means for receiving the interrogating signals after interaction with the scale; support means for moveably supporting the scale and transceiver portions relative to each other; signal generating means, connected to the transceiver portion for generating the optical and voltage interrogating signals; and signal processing means electronically coupled to the optical and capacitive receiving means, for processing the interrogating signals after interaction with the scale to absolutely determine the relative positions of the scale and transceiver portions within a predetermined error margin. 12. The absolute position determination system of claim 11 wherein the integrated scale pattern has a plurality of parallel metallic strip groups of predetermined width positioned at a regular interval spacing relative to one another, each metallic strip group having a plurality of parallel optical stripes therein at regular intervals, wherein the optical transmission means on the transceiver portion has a light source cooperatively associated with the signal generating means for illuminating the strips, and wherein the capacitive means on the transceiver portion has a plurality of spaced metallic strip groups for emitting the voltage interrogating signal, wherein the regularly spaced metallic strip groups of the capacitive transmission means are positioned so as to be capacitively coupleable to the metallic strip groups of the scale pattern, whereby manufacturing irregularities, physical deformation of the scale portion and changes in temperature tend to affect the position indications of the optical and capacitive properties of the system equally. 13. The absolute position determination system of claim 12 wherein the capacitive transmission means on the transceiver portion includes two groups of the regularly spaced metallic strip groups positioned on opposite sides of the light source so that the light source and two groups of the regularly spaced metallic strips are substantially symmetrically placed with respect to the light source, whereby the effects of thermal expansion of the transceiver portion tend to affect the optical and capacitive properties of the system equally. 14. The absolute position determination system of claim 13 wherein the regularly spaced metallic strip groups of the scale pattern have transverse conductors interconnecting the strips within each group so that the capacitive characteristic of the group does not substantially change if electrically continuity along a strip is lost. 15. The absolute position determination system of claim 13 wherein the regular interval spacing of the metallic strip groups of the scale pattern is approximately 1.040 mm, wherein each group has a width of approximately 0.340 mm, and wherein each optical stripe has a width of approximately 0.020 mm at the regular spacing of approximately 0.040 mm. 16. The absolute position determination system of claim 13 wherein the signal processing means has an optical scale memory device for remembering optical position data from the optical receiving mans, a capacitive scale memory device for receiving capacitive position data from the capacitive receiving means, and correction circuitry for updating the optical position data in the optical scale memory device if the optical position data is not in agreement with the capacitive position data so that the updated optical position data is indicative of the relative positions of the scale and transceiver portions substantially at all times. 17. The absolute position determination system of claim 16 wherein the optical scale memory device has first and second displacement counters each for receiving and storing duplicate sets of the updated optical position data, and serial data readout means for reading out the updated optical position data serially from the second displacement counter without effecting the duplicate set of optical position data stored in the first displacement counter. 18. The absolute position determination system of claim 11 wherein the optical transmission means on the transceiver portion includes a substantially monochromatic light source spaced at a gap distance from a source grating to form the optical interrogating signal, wherein the optical pattern of the integrated scale pattern has a plurality of parallel optical stripes therein at regularly spaced intervals to interact with the optical interrogating signal and generate a self image of the optical stripes on the optical receiving means on the transceiver portion, and wherein the optical receiving means has at least two receiver gratings positioned with respect to each other so as to be substantially 90 degrees out of spatial phase with the optical stripe self-image, whereby an optical quadrature signal having amplitudes indicative of an absolute relative position of the scale and transceiver portions between two adjacent optical stripes is generated on the optical receiving means. 19. The absolute position determination system of claim 18 wherein the source and receiver gratings are substantially coplanar. 20. A method for determining the absolute relative position of a scale portion and transceiver portion, comprising the steps of: capacitively determining the relative position of the scale and transceiver portions to within a first error margin; storing the capacitively determined position as position data in a first memory; optically determining the relative position of the scale and transceiver portions to within a second error margin, wherein the second error margin is smaller than the first error margin but wherein the optically determined position can contain an ambiguity regarding gross position data; storing the optically determined position as position data in a second memory; comparing the position data stored in the second memory with the position data stored in the first memory; generating a correction factor which is an integer number of the optical wavelength present on the scale if the position data stored in the first and second memory are not in agreement and applying the correction factor to the position data stored in the second memory; and reading out the position data stored in the second memory. 21. A scale for an absolute position determination system, comprising an integrated scale pattern having a plurality of parallel metallic strip groups of predetermined width positioned at a regular interval spacing for capacitive coupling with a first transmitting device said metallic strip groups being interleaved with a respective optical group each of which contains a plurality of parallel optical stripes at regular intervals for optical coupling with a second transmitting device, whereby manufacturing irregularities, physical deformation of the scale portion and changes in temperature tend to effect the optical and capacitive properties of the scale equally. 22. An absolute positioning determination system, comprising: a scale portion having a first regular pattern and a second regular pattern interleaved with said first pattern so that said first and second patterns are combined into a single integrated scale pattern, the first and second patterns interacting with first and second interrogating signals of qualitatively different types; a transducer portion having first and second sensing means for sensing the position in a defined measurement direction relative to the first and second pattern on the scale portion via scale interaction with the first and second interrogating signals; support means for supporting the scale and transceiver portions relative to each other in a way that makes them moveable relative to each other in the defined measurement direction; signal generating means, connected to the transceiver portion for generating the first and second interrogating signals; and signal processing means electronically coupled to the first and second sensing means, for processing the interrogating signals after interaction with the scale to allow determination of the absolute relative position of the scale and transceiver portions within a predetermined error margin. 23. The absolute position determination system of claim 22 wherein the first sensing means comprises an electrooptic sensor in interaction with the first regular pattern of the scale and the second sensing means comprises a capacitive position sensor in interaction with the second regular pattern of the scale. 24. The absolute position determination system of claim 23 wherein the integrated scale pattern has a plurality of parallel strips of predetermined width positioned at regular interval spacing in the direction of the measurement axis, the parallel strips forming an optical pattern, which interacts with the first sensing means to form an optical encoder, and wherein the strips are of electrically conducting material and groups of such strips are electrically connected together to form a periodic electrode pattern in the direction of the measurement axis to form a capacitive position sensor in interaction with the second sensing means. 25. The absolute measuring system of claim 24, wherein the parallel optical strips which are electrically connected to form a periodic electrode pattern to form a capacitive position sensor are redundantly connected to minimize the effect of broken individual connections. 26. The absolute positioning system according to claim 24, wherein the capacitive system is of absolute measuring type over a given measuring range and has a resolution that is smaller than the period length of the optical pattern, for eliminating the ambiguity of the optical measuring system when the two measurements are combined into an absolute measurement of position. 27. The absolute position measuring system of claim 26, wherein the second sensing means is divided into two symmetrical parts positioned symmetrically on opposite sides of the first sensing means in direction of the measurement axis, whereby the effective center of sensing with the second sensing means coincides with the center of the first sensing means such that the effect of thermal expansion of the framework carrying the sensing means has minimal influence on the change in spacing between effective center of detection of the two different sensing means. 28. The absolute position measuring system of claim 24, wherein the effective centers of detection of the first and second sensing means are substantially coplanar in a plane extending parallel to the measuring axis and perpendicular to the scale surface, so that rotations of the framework carrying the sensing means, about an axis perpendicular to the scale surface, will tend to translate the first and second sensing means by substantially the same amount along the measuring axis, and maintain the relative relationship for purposes of absolute position computation. 29. The absolute position measuring system of claim 28, where the first and second sensing means are substantially colinear on a line parallel to the measuring axis, so that rotations about any axis perpendicular to the measuring axis will tend to translate the first and second sensing means by substantially the same amount along the measuring axis and maintain the relative relationship for purposes of absolute position computation. 30. The absolute position determination system of claim 24, wherein the signal processing means has a first memory device for remembering the position data from the first sensing means, including a counter of number of periods of the first sensing means scale pattern, and a second memory device for remembering the position data from the second sensing means, and correction circuitry for updating the position data from the first memory device with respect to the accumulated number of periods of the first sensing means scale pattern if this number is not in agreement with the position data from the second memory device, so that the position data from the first memory device is indicative of the absolute relative position of the scale and transceiver portions at all times. 31. The absolute position determination system of claim 30, with means for reading out the change of position on two data lines in the form of quadrature pulses and also means for reading out the absolute position data in serial form on the same lines on demand from data receiver system, further with means for recording the change of position during the serial data readout time and outputting extra quadrature pulses on the two data lines after the end of the serial data readout time, to correct for the position change during the serial data readout time. 32. An absolute position determining system, comprising: a scale portion having a optical diffraction pattern and an electrode pattern; a transceiver portion; capacitive interrogating means having electrical transmission means for transmitting an electrical interrogation signal from the transceiver portion to the electrode pattern on the scale portion, said capacitive interrogating means further including receiver means for receiving the electrical interrogation signal after interaction with the electrode pattern on the scale portion as a function of the relative position between the scale portion and the transceiver portion over a first range and within a first margin or error; optical interrogating means for transmitting an optical interrogation signal from the transceiver portion to the optical diffraction pattern on the scale portion, the optical interrogating mans further including receiver means for receiving the optical interrogation signal after interaction with the diffraction pattern on the scale portion, the interaction being a function of the relative position between the scale portion and the transceiver portion over a second range that is substantially smaller than the first range and within a second margin of error that is substantially smaller than the first margin of error; support means for moveably supporting the scale and transceiver portions relative to each other; and signal processing means electrically coupled to the capacitive interrogating means and the optical interrogating means for determining the absolute position of the scale portion relative to the transceiver portion over a range determined by the range of the capacitive interrogating means and with an accuracy determined by the accuracy of the optical interrogating means. 33. The absolute position determining system of claim 32 wherein the optical diffraction pattern and the electrode pattern are mounted on a common substrate that is carried by the scale portion. 34. The absolute position determining system of claim 33 wherein the optical diffraction pattern is interleaved with the electrode pattern so that manufacturing irregularities, physical deformation of the scale portion and changes in temperature tend to equally affect the accuracy of the capacitive interrogating means and the optical interrogating means. 35. The absolute position determining system of claim 34 wherein at least a portion of the optical diffraction pattern is formed from the same material as the electrode pattern thereby allowing at least a portion of the optical diffraction pattern with which the optical interrogation signal interacts to also function as a part of the electrode pattern with which the electrical interrogation signal interacts. 36. The absolute position determining system of claim 32 wherein at least a portion of the optical diffraction pattern is formed from the same material as the electrode pattern thereby allowing at least a portion of the optical diffraction pattern with which the optical interrogation signal interacts to also function as a part of the electrode pattern with which the electrical interrogation signal interacts. 37. A method of determining the absolute position between a scale portion and a reference portion, comprising: capacitively determining the relative position between the scale portion and the reference portion over a first range and within a first margin of error; optically determining the relative position between the scale portion and the reference portion over a second range that is substantially smaller than the first range and within a second margin of error that is substantially smaller than the first margin of error; and using the capacitive position determination and the optical position determination to determine the absolute position of the scale portion relative to the reference portion over a range corresponding to the range of the capacitive position determination and with an accuracy determined by the accuracy of the optical position determination. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the relative position between the scale portion and the reference portion is optically determined by creating a diffraction grating formed at least in part by placing a first diffraction grating on said scale portion and a second optical grating on said reference portion so that said second grating optically interferes with the diffraction pattern from said first grating as a function of relative movement between the scale portion and the reference portion. 