A method for manufacturing a molded waveguide (50) is provided. A first cladding layer (20) is provided. Channels (21) are formed in the first cladding layer (20). A second cladding layer (40) is subsequently provided. The channels (21) in the first cladding layer (20) are then filled with an optically transparent polymer. The second cladding layer (40) is subsequently affixed over the channels (21) of the first cladding layer (20), thereby enclosing the channels (21).
Claims We claim: 1. A method for manufacturing a molded waveguide comprising the steps of: providing a first cladding layer; forming channels in the first cladding layer; providing a second cladding layer; filling the channels with an optically transparent polymer; affixing the second cladding layer over the channels, thereby enclosing the channels; and forming alignment ferrules in the molded waveguide. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the providing of the first cladding layer, the providing of the second cladding layer, and the optically transparent polymer have a first, a second, and a third refractive index respectively, wherein the first and second refractive indexes are lower than the third refractive index. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the refractive index of the first cladding layer and the second cladding layer ranges between 1.50 to 1.54 and the refractive index of the optically transparent polymer ranges between 1.54 to 1.58. 4. A method as set forth in claim 3 wherein the first and second refractive indexes are 0.01 lower than the third refractive index. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the affixing of the second cladding layer over the channels is achieved by compressing the first cladding layer and the second cladding layer together. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the forming of channels is accomplished by further including the steps of: providing a mold; providing a template in the mold, wherein the template is a negative image of the channels; and injecting an optically transparent polymer into the mold forming the channels in the optically transparent polymer, thereby fabricating the first cladding layer. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the providing of the template is accomplished by having the negative image of the channels as an integral part of the mold. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the providing of a second cladding layer is accomplished by further including the steps of: providing a mold; providing a template in the mold, wherein the template is a negative image of the second cladding layer; and injecting an optically transparent polymer into the mold, thereby fabricating the second cladding layer. 9. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the providing of the first cladding layer is accomplished by selecting an optically transparent material from one the following materials epoxies, plastics, or polyimides. 10. A method a set forth in claim 9 wherein the selecting of the first cladding layer material is accomplished by selecting an epoxy. 11. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the providing of the second cladding layer is accomplished by selecting an optically transparent material from one the following materials epoxies, plastics, or polyimides. 12. A method as set forth in claim 11 wherein the selecting of the second cladding layer material is accomplished by selecting an epoxy. 13. A molded waveguide comprising: a first molded cladding layer having a plurality of channels; a second molded cladding layer; and an adhesive core material, wherein the adhesive core material fills the plurality of channels securing the first molded cladding layer and the second molded cladding layer together; and alignment ferrules placed into the waveguide. 14. A molded waveguide as set forth in claim 13 wherein the alignment ferrules are molded into either the first cladding layer or the second cladding layer. 15. A molded waveguide as set forth in claim 13 wherein the alignment ferrules are parallel to the channels. 16. A molded waveguide as set forth in claim 13 wherein the first molded cladding layer, the second molded cladding layer and the adhesive core material have a first, a second, and a third refractive index, wherein the first and second refractive indexes are lower than the third refractive index. 17. A molded waveguide as set forth in claim 13 wherein the refractive index of the first molded cladding layer and the second molded cladding layer ranges between 1.50 to 1.54 and the refractive index of the adhesive core material ranges between 1.54 to 1.58. 18. A molded waveguide as set forth in claim 13 wherein the first and second refractive indexes are at least 0.01 lower than the third refractive index. 19. A molded waveguide as set forth in claim 13 wherein the plurality of channels have a minimum feature size of 0.5 microns. 20. A molded waveguide as set forth in claim 13 wherein the first cladding layer and the second cladding layer is selected from a group of optically transparent materials epoxies, plastics, or polyimides. 21. A method for making a molded split waveguide comprising the steps of: molding a first cladding layer with a channel that is split at least once producing at least two channels; molding a second cladding layer; filling the channel and the at least two channels with an optically transparent polymer; and affixing the second cladding layer over the first cladding layer enclosing the channels and the at least two channels; and forming alignment ferrules in the molded waveguide. 22. A method for making a molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 21 wherein molding the first cladding layer, molding the second cladding layer, and the optically transparent polymer have a first, a second, and a third refractive indexes, respectively, wherein the first and the second refractive indexes are lower than the third refractive index. 23. A method for making a molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 22 wherein the refractive index of the first cladding layer and the second cladding layer ranges between 1.150 to 1.54 and refractive index of the optically transparent polymer ranges between 1.54 to 1.58. 24. A method for making a molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 23 wherein the first and the second refractive indexes are 0.01 lower that the third refractive index. 25. A molded split waveguide comprising: a first cladding layer having a channel split into at least two channels and an alignment guide molded therein; and a second cladding layer affixed to the first cladding layer with an optically transparent polymer, wherein the optically transparent polymer fills the channel and the at least two channels, thereby making a molded split waveguide. 26. A molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 25 wherein the optically transparent polymer is an epoxy. 27. A molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 25 wherein the first cladding layer, the second cladding layer, and the optically transparent polymer have a first, a second, and a third refractive indexes, respectively, wherein the first and the second refractive indexes are lower than the third refractive indexes. 28. A molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 25 further comprising: an optical connector having an optical fiber ribbon cable joined thereto, the optical connector having an alignment guide that corresponds in location to the alignment guide of the molded split waveguide, such that connecting the alignment guide of the connector to the alignment guide of the molded split waveguide aligns the optical fiber ribbon cable to the molded split waveguide. 29. A molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 25 wherein the channel and the at least two channels have a minimum feature size of 0.5 micron. 30. A molded split waveguide as claimed in claim 25 wherein the first cladding layer and the second cladding layer is selected from a group of materials comprising epoxies, plastics, or polyimides. 