A molded disk is transferred out of the mold with short-stroke low-mass motions of a pair of mechanical guides which can grip, then release, the O.D. edge of the molded disk, when acting in coordination with movable mold members having undercuts for molded-on retention of the inner portion of the molded disk and/or sprue. Acting together, the disk is stripped off the molding surfaces and can be oriented in a second vertical plane to freely drop out an aperture in the mold, to exit through a discharge chute. Two ways of separating the sprue from the disk are shown, with a molded-in centerhole being preferred. This method and apparatus for transferring the molded disk out faster by gravity discharge wherein an optical disk mold can be enclosed against airborne dirt throughout molding cycles.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for injection molding thermoplastic optical disks within a moldset having a movable moldhalf and a stationary moldhalf closing at a parting line, the moldset containing a sprue bushing having a female sprue bushing member and an opposing male ejector core member co-axially aligned with a nozzle tip of an injection molding machine so as to form a sprue melt passageway from the nozzle tip on an upstream end to an annular gate to a disk mold cavity having opposing partforming surfaces on a downstream end, the sprue bushing member having sufficient undercut geometry to controllably retain an inner central portion of the disk and the opposing ejector core member having sufficient undercut geometry to controllably retain the sprue, comprising the steps of: a. injecting thermoplastic melt into the sprue melt passageway through the annular gate to fill the disk mold cavity while the moldset is in a closed position, then closing the annular gate before the melt therein is solidified, b. holding the sprue onto the ejector core member by molded-in undercut retention, moving the ejector core member away from the parting line past a stripping edge on the movable moldhalf to reach a position above a sprue discharge aperture within the movable moldhalf, and stripping the sprue by bringing an ejector pin toward the parting line past the ejector core member, to drop the sprue out of the moldset through the sprue discharge aperture, c. holding a central inner portion of the disk onto the sprue bushing member by molded-in undercut retention, while moving the sprue bushing member toward the parting line and moving the movable moldhalf partforming surface away from the parting line a greater distance than that moved by the sprue bushing member, both motions taking place during mold opening motions of the movable moldhalf, to separate the disk off both opposing partforming surfaces but still retaining the disk onto the sprue bushing member so that the disk is now co-aligned in a plane with a disk transfer slot aperture located within the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter, d. extending a movable mechanical guide to at least one extended position which lies in the same plane as the disk transfer slot aperture, e. retracting the sprue bushing member away from the parting line past a stripping edge while the mechanical guide contacts only on an outer diameter edge of the disk, thereby stripping the disk off the sprue bushing undercut, to free the disk to enter the disk transfer slot aperture and thus exit the moldset, and f. retracting the guide, moving the ejector core member forward toward the parting line and moving the movable moldhalf to its closed position, to start another molding cycle. 2. A method of claim 1 wherein a coordinated pair of opposingly mounted guides having V shaped contours are moved from a retracted position to a fully extended position to make firm contact with an outer diameter edge of the disk until at least stripping the disk off the sprue bushing undercut of the sprue bushing member is completed, so as to permit vibration damping of the disk, then the guides are moved to a partly extended position intermediate between the fully extended position and retracted position, so that the disk loses contact with the guides and the disk enters the disk transfer slot aperture. 3. A method of claim 1 wherein the annular gate is in a closed position before injecting thermoplastic melt into the sprue melt passageway, then the annular gate is opened to fill the disk mold cavity, then again closing the annular gate before the melt therein is solidified, to mold in a centerhole in the disk. 4. A method of claim 2 wherein the disk transfer slot aperture is downward facing so that after the guides releases the disk, the disk drops through the disk transfer slot aperture and exits the moldset by gravity. 5. A method of claim 2 wherein at least by the time that the guides are moved to a partly extended position, a disk driver mounted opposite to the disk transfer slot aperture is actuated so that the disk driver pushes against the disk to accelerate its exit from the moldset. 6. A method of claim 1 wherein the step of moving the movable moldhalf to the closed position substantially seals off the outer perimeter of the disk mold cavity from air external to the moldset, and maintaining the closed outer perimeter except for the disk transfer slot aperture which is in fluid communication with air external to the moldset only when the moldset is in an open position, the disk transfer slot aperture being downward facing to prevent convective air currents external to the moldset from contacting the partforming surfaces therein. 7. A method of claim 1 wherein the step of moving the movable moldhalf to the closed position substantially seals off the outer perimeter from air external to the moldset, and maintaining the closed outer perimeter except for the disk transfer slot aperture which is in fluid communication with air external to the moldset only when the moldset is in an open position, the disk mold cavity being capable of being controllably supplied internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when in an open position, and pressurizing the mold cavity internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when the open position is reached, so as to create positive pressure higher than ambient air pressure external to the moldset whereby filtered pressurized gas flows so ambient air is prevented from entering the disk mold cavity through the disk transfer slot aperture. 8. A method of claim 6 wherein gravity is utilized in the step of transferring the disk out of the moldset, by co-aligning the disk vertically over the downward facing disk transfer slot aperture within the same plane, and gravity is additionally utilized by joining the aperture into a discharge chute containing an inclined plane V-profile guide track in which the disk rolls down on its outer diameter edge in contact with the guide track. 9. A method of claim 1 wherein the opposing male ejector core member has a spreader die contour of a generally conically-tipped torpedo-shape, the male ejector core member protruding substantially into the female sprue bushing member and the male ejector core being separated from the female sprue bushing member in a first position to form at least substantially upstream from the gate an annular open aperture between the male ejector core member and the female sprue bushing member wherein a hollow sprue may be molded, the hollow sprue having both inside and outside surfaces, and at least the male ejector core member being maintained at a temperature below a solidification temperature of the thermoplastic by a mass transport cooling mechanism. 10. A method for injection molding thermoplastic optical disks within a moldset having a movable moldhalf and a stationary moldhalf closing at a parting line, the moldset containing a sprue bushing having a female sprue bushing member and an opposing male ejector core member co-axially aligned with a nozzle tip of an injection molding machine so as to form a sprue melt passageway from the nozzle tip on an upstream end to an annular gate to a disk mold cavity having opposing partforming surfaces on a downstream end, the annular gate being thinner than the disk, and the ejector core member having sufficient undercut geometry to controllably retain the sprue, comprising the steps of: a. injecting thermoplastic melt into the sprue melt passageway through the annular gate to fill the disk mold cavity while the moldset is in a closed position, and cooling the disk to solidification with attached sprue, b. opening the moldset by moving a movable platen rearward away from the parting line while holding the sprue and attached disk onto the ejector core member by molded-in undercut retention, and the ejector core member moving a smaller distance rearward than the disk cavity's partforming surface housed in the movable moldhalf mounted on the movable platen, thereby separating the disk off the opposing partforming surfaces but still retaining the disk and attached sprue onto the ejector core member so that the disk is co-aligned in a plane with a disk transfer slot aperture located within the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter, c. extending a movable mechanical guide mounted outside the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter to at least one extended position which lies in the same plane as the disk transfer slot aperture, d. retracting the ejector core member further rearward away from the parting line past a shearing edge die located as a concentric sleeve to the ejector core member such that when the ejector core member travels rearward of the shearing edge die, the annular gate attaching the disk to the sprue is severed, and freeing the disk of the sprue by continued rearward motion of the ejector core member retaining the sprue until reaching a position above a sprue discharge aperture within the movable moldhalf, the disk entering the disk transfer slot aperture, e. stripping the sprue by bringing an ejector pin slidably disposed within the ejector core member forward past the ejector core member, to free the sprue of the ejector core member's undercut and thereby drop the sprue out of the moldset through the sprue discharge aperture, and f. retracting the guide, moving the ejector core member forward toward the parting line and moving the movable moldhalf to its closed position, to start another molding cycle. 11. A method of claim 10 wherein a coordinated pair of opposingly mounted guides having V shaped contours are moved from a retracted position to a fully extended position to make firm contact with an outer diameter edge of the disk until at least stripping the disk off the ejector core member's undercut is completed, so as to permit vibration damping of the disk, then the guides are moved to a partly extended position intermediate between the fully extended position and retracted position, so that the disk loses contact with the guides and the disk enters the disk transfer slot aperture. 12. A method of claim 11 wherein the disk transfer slot aperture is downward facing so that after the guides releases the disk, the disk drops through the disk transfer slot aperture and exits the moldset by gravity. 13. A method of claim 11 wherein at least by the time that the guides are moved to a partly extended position, a disk driver mounted opposite to the disk transfer slot aperture is actuated so that the disk driver pushes against the disk to accelerate its exit from the moldset. 14. A method of claim 10 wherein the step of moving the movable moldhalf to the closed position substantially seals off the outer perimeter of the disk mold cavity from air external to the moldset, and maintaining the closed outer perimeter except for the disk transfer slot aperture which is in fluid communication with air external to the moldset only when the moldset is in an open position, the disk transfer slot aperture being downward facing to prevent convective air currents external to the moldset from contacting the partforming surfaces therein. 15. A method of claim 10 wherein the step of moving the movable moldhalf to the closed position substantially seals off the outer perimeter from air external to the moldset, and maintaining the closed outer perimeter except for the disk transfer slot aperture which is in fluid communication with air external to the moldset only when the moldset is in an open position, the disk mold cavity being capable of being controllably supplied internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when in an open position, and pressurizing the mold cavity internally with pressurized filtered gas at least when the open position is reached, so as to create positive pressure higher than ambient air pressure external to the moldset whereby filtered pressurized gas flows so ambient air is prevented from entering the disk mold cavity through the disk transfer slot aperture. 16. A method of claim 14 wherein gravity is utilized in the step of transferring the disk out of the moldset, by co-aligning the disk vertically over the downward facing disk transfer slot aperture within the same plane, and gravity is additionally utilized by joining the aperture into a discharge chute containing an inclined plane V-profile guide track in which the disk rolls down on its outer diameter edge in contact with the guide track. 17. A method of claim 10 wherein the opposing male ejector core member has a spreader die contour of a generally conically-tipped torpedo-shape, the male ejector core member protruding substantially into the female sprue brushing member and the male ejector core member being separated from the female sprue bushing member in a first position to form at least substantially upstream from the gate an annular open aperture between the male ejector core member and the female sprue bushing member wherein a hollow sprue may be molded, the hollow sprue having both inside and outside surfaces, and at least the male ejector core member being maintained at a temperature below a solidification temperature of the thermoplastic by a mass transport cooling mechanism. 18. An apparatus for injection molding thermoplastic optical disks within a moldset, the moldset comprising: a. a sprue bushing having a member and an opposing ejector assembly having a member, both members co-axially aligned with a nozzle tip of an injection molding machine so as to form a sprue melt passageway from the nozzle tip on an upstream end to an annular gate to a disk mold cavity on a downstream end, the sprue member having sufficient undercut geometry to controllably retain an inner central portion of the disk and the opposing ejector member having sufficient undercut geometry to controllably retain the sprue, means for controllable axial travel of the sprue member and the opposing ejector member, a stripping edge located adjacent to the sprue member such that when the sprue members travels rearward of the stripping edge, the inner central portion of the disk shall be freed of the sprue member's undercut, an ejector pin slidably disposed within the opposing ejector member, such that when the ejector pin is traveled forward of the ejector member, the sprue shall be freed of the ejector member's undercut, b. the disk mold cavity starting at the annular gate an upstream end and ending at an outer perimeter on the downstream end of the thermoplastic melt flow and the disk mold cavity having movable and stationary sides on either side of a parting line, opposing movable and stationary partforming surfaces housed in movable and stationary moldhalfs mountable onto movable and stationary platens of the injection molding machine such that the movable partforming surface can be moved between at least a closed position at a first vertical plane and an open position at a second vertical plane in each molding cycle, the movable moldhalf containing a sprue discharge aperture which opens onto the axially-disposed ejector assembly, through which the sprue may be dropped after being freed of the ejector member's undercut, one disk transfer slot aperture located in the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter and the disk transfer slot aperture located fixedly at a vertical plane between the first vertical plane and the second vertical plane, at least one movable mechanical guide mounted outside the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter, the mechanical guide having a paddle with a contoured edge for contacting an outer diameter edge of the disk without damage, and the mechanical guide being in a retracted position when the moldset is in the closed position and being in at least one extended position when the moldset is in its open position wherein the paddle with a contoured edge lies in the same vertical plane in line with the aperture, and means for controllably moving the mechanical guide from the retracted position to at least one extended position and then retracting, such that the molded sprue and a central inner portion of the disk are held by molded-in retention into undercut geometry on the ejector member and the sprue member, the sprue being removed by axial travel of the sprue member before stripping off the sprue undercut and dropping out the sprue discharge aperture, and the disk being separated off the opposing partforming surfaces by opening the moldset and by axial travel of the sprue member, then extending the movable mechanical guide before stripping off the disk undercut, and the disk now losing contact with the guide so the disk enters the disk transfer slot aperture then exits the moldset. 19. An apparatus of claim 18 wherein means for controllable axial travel of the co-axially aligned opposing sprue member and ejector member are actuated to urge apart the sprue member and ejector member to open the annular gate to fill the disk mold cavity with injected thermoplastic melt, then said means are actuated to urge together the sprue member and ejector member to close the annular gate after the disk mold cavity has been filled but before the injected thermoplastic melt is solidified in the annular gate. 20. An apparatus of claim 18 wherein a coordinated pair of mechanical guides having paddles with a contoured V shaped edge is used. 21. An apparatus of claim 20 wherein the coordinated pair of mechanical guides have drive means for controllably moving the mechanical guide from the retracted position to one fully-extended position and next to a partly extended position. 22. An apparatus of claim 20 wherein disk driver means are mounted outside the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter at a location opposite the aperture, the disk driver being in a retracted position until the guides release the disk, at which time means are actuated to extend the disk driver forward, then again retract after the disk enters the aperture. 23. An apparatus of claim 18 wherein the disk moldset houses a plurality of disk mold cavities. 24. An apparatus for injection molding thermoplastic optical disks within a moldset, the moldset comprising: a. a sprue bushing assembly having a member and an opposing ejector assembly having a member, both members co-axially aligned with a nozzle tip of an injection molding machine so as to form a sprue melt passageway from the nozzle tip on an upstream end to an annular gate to a disk mold cavity on a downstream end, the opposing ejector member having sufficient undercut geometry to controllably retain the sprue, and means for controllable axial travel of the opposing ejector member, a shearing edge die located as a concentric sleeve to the opposing ejector member such that when the ejector member travels rearward of the shearing edge, the annular gate attaching the disk to the sprue is severed and the disk shall be freed of the sprue, and an ejector pin slidably disposed within the opposing ejector member, such that when the ejector pin is traveled forward of the ejector member, the sprue shall be freed of the ejector member's undercut, b. the disk mold cavity starting at the annular gate at an upstream end and ending at an outer perimeter on the downstream end of the thermoplastic melt flow and the disk mold cavity having movable and stationary sides on either side of a parting line, opposing movable and stationary partforming surfaces housed in movable and stationary moldhalfs mountable onto movable and stationary platens of the injection molding machine such that the movable partforming surface can be moved between at least a closed position at a first vertical plane and an open position at a second vertical plane in each molding cycle, the movable moldhalf containing a sprue discharge aperture which opens onto the axially-disposed ejector assembly, through which the sprue may be dropped after being freed of the ejector member's undercut, one downward-facing disk transfer slot aperture located in the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter and the disk transfer slot aperture located fixedly at a vertical plane between the first vertical plane and the second vertical plane, at least one movable mechanical guide mounted outside the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter, the mechanical guide having a paddle with a contoured edge suitable for contacting an outer diameter edge of the disk without damage, and the mechanical guide being in a retracted position when the moldset is in the closed position and in at least one extended position when the moldset is in its open position wherein the paddle with a contoured edge lies in the same vertical plane in line with the disk transfer slot aperture, and means for controllably moving the mechanical guide from the retracted position to at least one extended position and then retracting, such that the molded sprue and the attached disk are held by molded-in mechanical undercut geometry on the opposing ejector member while the disk is separated off the opposing partforming surfaces by opening the moldset and by axial travel of opposing sprue and ejector members, then extending the movable mechanical guide, followed by the sprue being removed from the disk by rearward axial travel of the sprue member against the shearing edge die, then continuing rearward travel further before stripping off the sprue undercut when positioned axially above the sprue discharge aperture, so that the disk may now lose contact with the guide and the disk drops through the downward-facing aperture and exits the moldset by gravity. 25. An apparatus of claim 24 wherein a coordinated pair of mechanical guides having paddles with a contoured V shaped edge is used. 26. An apparatus of claim 25 wherein the coordinated pair of mechanical guides have drive means for controllably moving the mechanical guide from the retracted position to one fully-extended position and next to a partly extended position. 27. An apparatus of claim 25 wherein disk driver means are mounted outside the disk mold cavity's outer perimeter at a location opposite the aperture, the disk driver being in a retracted position until the guides release the disk, at which time means are actuated to extend the disk driver forward, then again retract after the disk enters the aperture. 28. An apparatus of claim 24 wherein the disk moldset houses a plurality of disk mold cavities. 