An eyelet (64) for securing a first member (22) to a second member (12) through aligned apertures (28,30) includes a tubular shank portion (66), an inverted portion (68) at a first end of the shank portion and a generally cup-shaped portion (70) at a second end of the shank portion remote from the first end. The cup-shaped portion (70) remains outside the apertures (28,30) when the eyelet (64) is inserted therethrough and has its sidewall (76) formed with an interference portion. A tool (94) for use with the eyelet includes a plunger (82) surrounded by and slidably received in a collet (84) which is longitudinally divided into a plurality of segments. At the end of each of the collet segments there is a grip head (96) having an outer surface shaped complemental to the inner surface of the sidewall (76) of the cup-shaped portion of the eyelet. A first camming surface (98) on the plunger and a second camming surface (100) on the interior of each of the collet segments are arranged so that as the plunger is extended out of the collet the collet is radially expanded. Thus, the grip heads engage the inner surface of the sidewall of the cup-shaped portion of the eyelet and cooperate with the interference portion of the sidewall so that the eyelet is gripped by the tool both radially and longitudinally.
Claims I claim: 1. An eyelet (42) for securing a first member (22) to a second member (12), said first and second members each having generally parallel and planar spaced apart surfaces (32, 34, 36, 38) and each having a respective aperture (28, 30) extending between its respective surfaces, the apertures adapted to be in registration with each other when said first member is secured to said second member, said eyelet adapted to extend through said apertures adapted to be in registration with each other when said first member is secured to said second member, said eyelet adapted to extend through said apertures and comprising: a generally tubular shank portion (44) having a longitudinal bore (46), said shank portion having a length which is greater than the sum of the spacings between the surfaces of said first and second members; an inverted portion (50) at a first end (48) of said shank portion, said inverted portion extending inwardly from said first end and engageable through said shank portion bore; and a generally cup-shaped portion (54, 70) at a second end of said shank portion remote from said first end, said cup-shaped portion having a generally flat bottom (56, 72) extending outwardly from said shank portion and sized to rest on a surface (32) of said first member when said shank portion of said eyelet is contained within said first member aperture, said cup-shaped portion also having a generally tubular sidewall (60, 76) extending from the outer periphery (58, 74) of said bottom away from said shank portion and terminating in an edge (62, 78), said sidewall defining an interference portion spaced from said bottom which extends inwardly relative to the outer periphery of said bottom. 2. The eyelet according to claim 1 wherein said interference portion is defined by said sidewall (76) tapering inwardly from the outer periphery (74) of said bottom. 3. The eyelet according to claim 1 wherein said interference is defined by said sidewall edge (62) being rolled inwardly. 4. The eyelet according to claim 1 wherein said shank portion has slots (52) therein forming segments. 5. The eyelet according to claim 1 wherein said shank portion is cylindrical having a major longitudinal axis, said bottom of said cup-shaped portion lies in a plane orthogonal to said axis, the outer periphery of said bottom is circular and concentric with said shank portion, and said sidewall edge is circular, concentric with said shank portion and lies in a plane parallel to said bottom. 6. The eyelet according to claim 5 wherein said sidewall defined a frustum of a cone tapering inwardly from the outer periphery of said bottom to said sidewall edge. 7. The eyelet according to claim 1 and a tool (80) for use therewith, the tool comprising: a plunger (82) adapted to extend into the bore of the eyelet shank portion and engage against the inverted portion of the eyelet; a collet (84) surrounding and slidably receiving said plunger, said collet being longitudinally divided into a plurality of collet segments; a plurality of grips heads (88, 96), each of said grip heads being secured to the end of a respective one of said collet segments, each of said grip heads having an outer surface (90, 92) shaped complemental to the inner surface of said eyelet cup-shaped portion sidewall; a first camming surface (98) on said plunger; and a second camming surface (100) on the interior of each of said collet segments; said first and second camming surfaces being arranged so that as said plunger is extended out of said collet, said first camming surface engages said second camming surface to radially expand said collet; whereby when said grip heads are within the cup-shaped portion of said eyelet and said plunger is extended out of said collet, said grip heads engage the inner surface of the sidewall of the cup-shaped portion and cooperate with the interference portion of the sidewall so that the eyelet is gripped by the tool both radially and longitudinally. 