A method and system for transfer of fluids, such as paint, using a fluid canister carried by a transfer device, such as a robot, instead of having paint lines connected to a delivery device, such as a spray gun, carried by the robot. A novel mechanism for initially docking and then filling the canister from a fluid outlet of a pressurized source of fluid without straining the robot is provided. Also, a novel mechanism for cleaning the canister between canister fillings is provided so that paint colors can be changed without loss of productive robot time. In one embodiment, the canister is integrated with the robot. Also, a novel, non-contact sensor is provided for providing a signal to allow the metering of the paint entering or/and discharged from the canister.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring fluid from a pressurized source of fluid, the method comprising the steps of: providing the pressurized source of fluid with an outlet valve; providing a transfer device having a fluid reservoir, an inlet valve, actuating means for fluidly communicating the inlet and outlet valves, the actuating means being mounted on the reservoir in alignment with the inlet valve, and a fluid delivery device; moving the transfer device to a docking position so that the inlet valve of the reservoir is located immediately adjacent the outlet valve of the pressurized source of fluid; sealingly mating the inlet valve with the outlet valve with the actuating means; opening the inlet and outlet valves with the actuating means to fluidly communicate a filling port of the reservoir and a fluid outlet of the pressurized source of fluid; closing the inlet and outlet valves; moving the transfer device and the filled reservoir to a fluid delivery position; and fluidly communicating the fluid from the reservoir to the delivery device. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the inlet and outlet valves are opened substantially simultaneously. 3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the inlet and outlet valves are closed substantially simultaneously. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the actuating means is movable between a home position, a sealing position, and an actuating position and wherein the step of opening includes the step of moving the actuating means from its home position to the sealing position to apply a sealing force for mating the inlet and outlet valves and then to its actuating position to open the inlet and outlet valves. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the inlet and outlet valves move in tandem with the actuating means during movement of the actuating means from its sealing position towards its actuating position to substantially simultaneously open the inlet and outlet valves. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein each of the valves is biased and wherein during the step of closing the inlet and outlet valves move in tandem with the actuating means, the actuating means moving from its actuating position towards its home position. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein the outlet valve is supported on compliant elements that allow the transfer of the sealing force of the actuating means to the mating surfaces of the inlet and outlet valves. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein each of the inlet and outlet valves includes biasing means to bias the respective valves to their respective closed positions, each of the biasing means moving its respective valve in tandem with the actuating means when the actuating means moves from its actuating position towards its home position. 9. The method of claim 4 wherein the actuating means has a protective position in which the actuating means sealingly mates with the inlet valve and wherein the method further comprises the step of moving the actuating means to its protective position to sealingly protect the filling port from contamination after the step of closing the inlet and outlet valves. 10. The method of claim 4 or claim 9 wherein the actuating means is mounted on the transfer device in alignment with the inlet valve. 11. The method of claim 4 or claim 9 wherein the actuating means has a cleaning position in which the actuating means opens the inlet valve and wherein the method further comprises the steps of: controlling the delivery device to deliver at least a portion of the fluid to an object; providing a pressurized source of cleaning fluid with a fluid outlet; moving the actuating means to its cleaning position; and fluidly communicating the filling port of the reservoir and the fluid outlet of the pressurized source of cleaning fluid in the cleaning position of the actuating means to clean the reservoir. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of fluidly communicating the filling port includes the steps of fluidly communicating the fluid outlet of the pressurized source of cleaning fluid to the actuating means and then fluidly communicating the actuating means to the filling port of the reservoir. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the inlet valve is sealingly mated with the outlet valve during the steps of opening, filling and closing. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of sealingly protecting the filling port from contamination at least during the step of moving the transfer device to the fluid delivery position. 15. The method of claim 1 further including the step of controlling the delivery device to deliver the fluid to an object. 16. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the fluid is paint and the delivery device is paint spray means. 17. The method as claimed in claim 16 wherein the paint is water-based paint. 18. The method as claimed in claim 16 wherein the paint is solvent-based paint. 19. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reservoir includes a cylinder and a piston mounted within the cylinder for linear movement therein. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19 further comprising means for sensing the linear position of the piston within the cylinder and providing a signal indication thereof. 21. The method as claimed in claim 20 wherein the means for sensing includes a linear potentiometer, a conductive guide wire, and a tracer mounted on the guide wire for movement along the potentiometer synchronously with the movement of the piston. 22. The method as claimed in claim 21 wherein the piston is provided with a means for generating a magnetic field to move therewith and the tracer is constructed of conductive ferromagnetic material to follow the movement of the means for generating and the piston as it remains in electrical contact with the potentiometer and the guide wire and wherein the position of the piston is determined from one of a resistance measurement and a voltage measurement between the conductive guide wire and terminals of the potentiometer. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the means for generating includes a magnet. 24. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of metering the predetermined amount of fluid. 25. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of pressurizing the fluid in the reservoir. 