A microtiter plate transport device is configured to grip a microtiter plate in a first location. The microtiter plate transport device is configured to make a vertical approach to the microtiter plate and grip the microtiter plate in either a portrait orientation or a landscape orientation along either the opposing longer sides or the opposing shorter sides of the microtiter plate. The device comprises a Cartesian coordinate robot including a first gripping member and a second gripping member opposed to the first gripping member. The first gripping member and the second gripping member are supported by an arm configured to move along a vertical axis which extends between the first gripping member and the second gripping member. The first gripping member and the second gripping member are configured to rotate about the vertical axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device configured to grip a microtiter plate having a plurality of wells, the microtiter plate comprising two opposing first sides and two opposing second sides wherein the length of each opposing first side is longer than the length of each opposing second side, the device comprising: a Cartesian coordinate robot configured to move a robotic arm in at least one horizontal and vertical axis, the robotic arm having a central, vertical axis; a grip and twist assembly connected to an end of the robotic arm, the grip and twist assembly including a grip drive motor, a twist drive motor, a first gripping member and a second gripping member opposed to the first gripping member; wherein the first gripping member and the second gripping member are coupled t the grip drive motor such that actuation of the grip drive motor causes the first gripping member and the second gripping member to move toward or way from the central, vertical axis of the vertical robotic arm; wherein the first gripping member and the second griping member are coupled to the twist drive motor such that actuation of the twist drive motor causes the first gripping member and the second gripping member to rotate about a vertical axis of rotation; and wherein the first gripping member and second gripping member are configured to move relative to each other between a first gripping position and a second gripping position, wherein the first gripping member and the second gripping member are adapted to grip the two opposing first sides of the microtiter plate in the first gripping position, and wherein the first gripping member and the second gripping member are configured to grip the two opposing second sides of the microtiter plate in the second gripping position; and a microprocessor configured to direct the Cartesian coordinate robot, in response to a command to transfer the microtiter plate from a first location to a second location wherein the second location is associated with one of the first gripping position and the second gripping position, to select one of the first gripping position and the second gripping position based on the second location, to engage the twist drive motor to rotate the first gripping member and the second gripping member to the selected one of the first gripping position and the second gripping position if necessary, to position the robotic arm such that the microtiter plate is between the first gripping member and the second gripping member and to engage the grip drive motor to grasp the microtiter late at the first location in the selected one of the first gripping position and the second gripping position. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the central, vertical axis of the robotic arm is positioned between the first gripping member and the second gripping member. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the central, vertical axis of the robotic arm and the vertical axis of rotation of the gripping member are the same axis. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the first gripping member comprises a first gripping surface, and wherein the second gripping member comprises a second gripping surface. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein the second gripping member further comprises a third gripping surface. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein the Cartesian coordinate robot further comprises a support member having a drive train that moves the robotic arm in the vertical axis. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein the support member is configured to ride on a horizontal track, and wherein the support member is configured to move in a horizontal direction upon the horizontal track. 8. The device of claim 1 wherein the twist drive and the grip drive each comprise a servo-controlled motor. 9. The device of claim 1 wherein the distance between the first gripping member and the second gripping member is about 3 and 3/8 inches in the first position and wherein the distance between the first gripping member and the second gripping member is about 5 inches in the second position. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the microprocessor is further configured to direct the Cartesian coordinate robot to rotate the grasped microtiter plate based on the second location. 