At the battery exchange station a discharged battery is removed and a charged battery is inserted into an electric vehicle. The battery is inserted and removed along a vertical axis, i.e., into and out of the bottom of the vehicle. The battery exchange system is located in a service bay under the vehicle. A sliding door system creates an opening above the service bay. A vehicle is received over the sliding door system, such that at least one wheel of the vehicle rests on the conveyor system. The door slides in a first direction while allowing the conveyor system to slide in a direction opposite the first direction. The conveyor system also supports the at least one wheel of the vehicle while the door and conveyor slide in opposite directions. The sliding of the door and the sliding of the conveyor system occur at least partially simultaneously.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of servicing a vehicle, wherein access to the underside of the vehicle is provided by a sliding door system comprising a door and a conveyor system at least partially built into the door, the method comprising: receiving a vehicle over the sliding door system such that at least one wheel of the vehicle rests on the a surface of the conveyor system; and sliding the door in a first direction while allowing the surface of the conveyor system to slide relative to the door in a second direction opposite to the first direction while supporting the at least one wheel. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first direction is perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the vehicle and parallel to an underside of the vehicle. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a first guide positioned on the door adjacent to the conveyor system, and stopping the sliding when the at least one wheel contacts the first guide. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: providing a second guide positioned adjacent to the door; providing a second conveyor system positioned adjacent to the second guide remote from the door for supporting a second wheel; and allowing the second conveyor system to slide in the first direction translating the vehicle in the first direction until the second wheel contacts the second guide. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: providing a conveyor system and corresponding guide for each wheel of the vehicle; and altering the yaw of the vehicle by allowing each conveyor system to rotate until its respective wheel hits its corresponding guide. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing one or more rising supports, and lifting the vehicle on the one or more rising supports to alter the vehicle's roll and pitch. 7. The method of servicing a vehicle of claim 1, further comprising: a method of exchanging a battery in an at least partially electric vehicle, comprising: removing a first rechargeable battery from a cavity in an underside of an at least partially electric vehicle by lowering the first rechargeable battery along a first axis substantially perpendicular to a plane formed by a bottom surface of the at least partially electric vehicle; and inserting a second battery into the cavity in the underside of the at least partially electric vehicle by lifting the second battery along the first axis. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: prior to the inserting, retrieving the second battery from a battery charging warehouse; and temporarily storing the second battery in a standby location. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the retrieving comprises: retrieving, with an automated robotic mechanism the second battery from a rack module inside the battery charging warehouse; and delivering the second battery from the automated robotic mechanism to a battery exchange system. 10. The method of claim 7, further comprising: after the removing, moving the first rechargeable battery to a battery charging warehouse. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: prior to the removing, mechanically disengaging a lock attaching the first battery to the at least partially electric vehicle. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the mechanically disengaging comprises: inserting a key into a lock on the at least partially electric vehicle; and retracting the key into the exchange platform. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the method of exchanging happens in under five minutes. 14. The method of claim 7, further comprising: prior to the removing, cleaning at least a portion of the first battery. 15. The method of claim 7, wherein the removing occurs at a first location and the inserting occurs at a second location. 16. The method of claim 7, further comprising: prior to the removing, automatically translating the vehicle to a first location above a service bay; and after the inserting, automatically translating the vehicle to a second location distinct from the first location. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a vehicle translation system, and translating the vehicle until it is received over the sliding door system. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a vehicle translation system, and translating the vehicle from the sliding door system to a waiting area. 