This lift system serves as a powered ladder having a small footprint. The system is divided into two subchasses with a mast fixedly attached to a first subchassis for support of a liftable platform which may carry a human operator. Maneuverability is accomplished by a virtual articulating joint between the two subchasses. The joint comprises hydraulic cylinders operating in conjunction with wheel struts to form a three-point support. Articulation enables the lift system to be adjusted on sloped or uneven terrain to maintain the mast in a vertical orientation. One use of the lift system is to carry a fruit picker into an orchard or vineyard and to position the picker to work efficiently. The lift system may carry a robot and may be controlled either locally or remotely.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lift system, comprising: a mobile platform which includes a first subchassis, and a second subchassis; a mast fixedly attached to the first subchassis of said mobile platform; a liftable platform movably mounted to said mast; a drive system attached to said mobile platform; and a control station for controlling said lift system, wherein the drive system includes one or two steerable wheels mounted to the first subchassis; and two drive wheels, wherein each drive wheel is mounted to the second subchassis at a first end of an associated strut, and a second end of the associated strut is mounted to the first subchassis at a first associated mount point below the mast; and wherein each drive wheel is further mounted to a first end of an associated hydraulic cylinder at the second subchassis, and a second end of the associated hydraulic cylinder is mounted to the first subchassis at a second associated mount point behind a lower end of the mast at an offset from the first associated mount point, wherein at each drive wheel the associated strut, the associated hydraulic cylinder, and the offset between the first and second associated mount points act as three legs to form a three-point support which serves as a virtual articulating joint; and wherein the second subchassis is articulably joined to the first subchassis by the virtual articulating joint associated with each of the two drive wheels; and articulation of the second subchassis with respect to the first subchassis is accomplished by actuating one or both of the hydraulic cylinders, and wherein the control station controls the drive system to articulate so as to position said lift system to place the mast into a vertical orientation, and moves said liftable platform to a selected height. 2. The lift system of claim 1, wherein each strut is adjustable in length. 3. The lift system of claim 1, wherein the liftable platform comprises: a means to prevent an operator from falling off of the liftable platform. 