A shadow frame and framing system for semiconductor fabrication equipment comprising a rectangular frame having four edges, the edges forming an interior lip with a top surface and an bottom engagement surface; and a cross beam disposed between at least two edges of the frame, the cross beam having a top surface and a bottom engagement surface, the engagement surface of the cross beam configured to be flush with the engagement surface of the lip; wherein one or more of the engagement surfaces are configured to cover metal interconnect bonding areas on a carrier disposed below the frame. The shadow frame is particularly useful in plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) applications used to make active matrix liquid crystal displays (AMLCDs) and solar cells.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of depositing a material layer on a substrate comprising: providing a shadow framing system having: a rectangular frame including at least one cross beam, the rectangular frame and cross beam having flush engagement surfaces configured to intimately contact a substrate disposed below the rectangular frame, and further configured to cover a metal interconnect area of the substrate; a susceptor disposed below the rectangular frame and configured to support the substrate against the rectangular frame, the susceptor including apertures, the apertures positioned below the engagement surfaces of the rectangular frame; and support elements including an engagement surface, the support elements configured to protrude through the apertures and contact a lower surface of the substrate at the engagement surface of the support elements; retracting the susceptor below the support elements; placing a substrate on the support elements; raising the susceptor so that the susceptor contacts the substrate; and depositing a material layer on the substrate through the rectangular frame. 2. A method comprising: providing a shadow frame for semiconductor fabrication equipment having: a rectangular frame having four edges, the edges forming a lip with a top surface and a bottom engagement surface; and at least one cross beam disposed between at least two edges of the frame, the cross beam having a top surface and a bottom engagement surface, the engagement surface of the cross beam configured to be flush with the engagement surface of the lip; wherein one or more of the engagement surfaces are configured to cover metal interconnect bonding areas on a substrate disposed below the frame; wherein the engagement surfaces are also disposed to be positioned over support elements adapted to lift the substrate; and employing the shadow frame during fabrication of a panel display. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the material layer is deposited on the substrate in an open region defined by the position of the cross beam in the rectangular frame. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the apertures in the susceptor are positioned such that they are aligned with areas beneath the cross beam and rectangular frame. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the support elements is disposed along a periphery of the susceptor. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the rectangular frame and cross beam comprise a beveled top surface to allow laminar flow of materials onto the substrate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the susceptor is adapted to heat the substrate supported by the susceptor. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein the top surfaces of the rectangular frame and the cross beam are beveled to allow laminar flow of materials onto the substrate. 9. The method of claim 2 wherein the edges of the rectangular frame are beveled. 10. The method of claim 2 wherein the top surface of the cross beam is beveled. 11. The method of claim 2 wherein the bottom surface of the edges and the bottom surface of the cross beam are coplanar. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein the frame is secured in a fixed position. 