A virtual track or rail system and method is described for execution by a robot. A user, through a user interface, generates a desired path comprised of at least one segment representative of the virtual track for the robot. Start and end points are assigned to the desired path and velocities are also associated with each of the at least one segment of the desired path. A waypoint file is generated including positions along the virtual track representing the desired path with the positions beginning from the start point to the end point including the velocities of each of the at least one segment. The waypoint file is sent to the robot for traversing along the virtual track.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for implementing a virtual track for a robot, comprising: on a computer remote from the robot: operating a graphical user interface by a user for: generating a desired path comprised of a plurality of segments representative of the virtual track for the robot; assigning start and end points to the desired path; and associating velocities with each of the plurality of segments of the desired path; analyzing the desired path to determine velocity transitions between at least some of the plurality of segments and to determine a turn gain of the robot during transition between the at least some of the plurality of segments as the robot traverses the virtual track; generating a waypoint file including positions along the virtual track as represented by the desired path, the velocities of each of the plurality of segments and the turn gain between the at least some of the plurality of segments; and sending the waypoint file to the robot for traversing the virtual track along the positions from the start point to the end point; and on the robot: repeating on each iteration through an event timing loop, the acts of: defining an event horizon comprising a distance from the robot that is proportional to a current velocity of the robot; detecting a range to an obstacle near the robot; and testing for an event horizon intrusion by determining if the range to the obstacle is within the event horizon; performing a localization process to determine a present frame of reference for use in alignment of the robot to the virtual track; and adjusting the desired path of the robot by: determining that the range to the obstacle within the event horizon represents a blockage on the desired path to a next waypoint; and avoiding the blockage and pointing at the next waypoint by: adjusting a translational velocity of the robot; adjusting a rotational velocity of the robot; and backing up the robot if there is insufficient room to turn the robot. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising ordering the plurality of segments in order of a selected sequential traverse along the desired path. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising checking traversal continuity of the selected sequential traverse of the plurality of segments. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the velocities associated with each of the plurality of segments with mobility capabilities of the robot; and modifying one or more of the velocities to one or more reduced velocities when the one or more velocities exceeds the mobility capabilities of the robot. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising reporting the one or more reduced velocities for prospective revision to the desired path. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the desired path comprises drawing the desired path in a first format and converting the desired path to text-editable format. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the text-editable format is a .dxf format. 8. A system for generating robot programming instructions for implementing a virtual track, comprising: a remote computer for: operating a graphical user interface configured to generate a desired path comprised of a plurality of segments representative of the virtual track for a robot; and performing a path plan process configured to: enable a user to assign start and end points to the desired path and to associate velocities with each of the plurality of segments of the desired path; analyze the desired path to determine velocity transitions between at least some of the plurality of segments and to determine a turn gain of the robot during transition between the at least some of the plurality of segments as the robot traverses the virtual track; and generate a waypoint file including positions along the virtual track as represented by the desired path, the velocities of each of the plurality of segments and the turn gain between the at least some of the plurality of segments; and a mobile robot platform configured for: repeating on each iteration through an event timing loop, the acts of: defining an event horizon comprising a distance from the robot that is proportional to a current velocity of the robot; detecting a range to an obstacle near the robot; and testing for an event horizon intrusion by determining if the range to the obstacle is within the event horizon; performing a localization process to determine a present frame of reference for use in alignment of the mobile robot platform to the virtual track; and adjusting the desired path of the robot by: determining that the range to the obstacle within the event horizon represents a blockage on the desired path to a next waypoint; and avoiding the blockage and pointing at the next waypoint by: adjusting a translational velocity of the robot; adjusting a rotational velocity of the robot; and backing up the robot if there is insufficient room to turn the robot. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the path plan process is further configured to send the waypoint file to the robot for traversing the virtual track along the positions from the start point to the end point. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the path plan process is further configured to order the plurality of segments in order of a selected sequential traverse along the desired path. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the path plan process is further configured to check traversal continuity of the selected sequential traverse of the plurality of segments. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the path plan process is further configured to generate the desired path comprising drawing the desired path in a first format and converting the desired path to text-editable format. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the text-editable format is .dxf format. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the path plan process is further configured to: compare the velocities associated with each of the plurality of segments with mobility capabilities of the robot; and modify one or more of the velocities to one or more reduced velocities when the one or more velocities exceeds the mobility capabilities of the robot. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the path plan process is further configured to report the one or more reduced velocities for prospective revision to the desired path. 16. A computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions thereon for implementing a virtual track for a robot, the computer-executable instructions for performing the acts of: enabling a user to generate a desired path comprised of a plurality of segments representative of the virtual track for the robot; enabling a user to assign start and end points to the desired path; enabling a user to associate velocities with each of the plurality of segments of the desired path; analyzing the desired path to determine velocity transitions between at least some of the plurality of segments and to determine a turn gain of the robot during transition between the at least some of the plurality of segments as the robot traverses the virtual track; generating a waypoint file including positions along the virtual track as represented by the desired path, the velocities of each of the plurality of segments and the turn gain between the at least some of the plurality of segments; sending the waypoint file to the robot for traversing the virtual track along the positions from the start point to the end point; repeating on each iteration through an event timing loop on the robot, the acts of: defining an event horizon comprising a distance from the robot that is proportional to a current velocity of the robot; detecting a range to an obstacle near the robot; and testing for an event horizon intrusion by determining if the range to the obstacle is within the event horizon; performing a localization process on the robot to determine a present frame of reference for use in alignment of the robot to the virtual track; and adjusting the desired path of the robot by: determining that the range to the obstacle within the event horizon represents a blockage on the desired path to a next waypoint; adjusting a translational velocity of the robot; adjusting a rotational velocity of the robot; and backing up the robot if there is insufficient room to turn the robot. 17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-executable instructions for ordering the plurality of segments in order of a selected sequential traverse along the desired path. 18. The computer-readable medium of claim 17, further comprising computer-executable instructions for checking traversal continuity of the selected sequential traverse of the plurality of segments. 19. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-executable instructions for: comparing the velocities associated with each of the plurality of segments with mobility capabilities of the robot; and modifying one or more of the velocities to one or more reduced velocities when the one or more velocities exceeds the mobility capabilities of the robot. 20. The computer-readable medium of claim 19, further comprising computer-executable instructions for reporting the one or more reduced velocities for prospective revision to the desired path. 21. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the computer-executable instructions for generating the desired path comprises computer-executable instructions for drawing the desired path in a first format and converting the desired path to text-editable format. 22. The computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the text-editable format is a .dxf format. 