Use of calibrant in extraction phase is described for quantification of components of interest in samples in laboratory application as well as in on-site monitoring. This approach is particularly useful for in-vivo investigation of living systems.
Claims I claim: 1. A solid phase microextraction device for sampling and extracting a component contained in a sample, said device comprising a polymeric extraction phase for absorbing or adsorbing the component of interest from the sample and a calibrant non-specifically adsorbed or absorbed in said polymeric extraction phase, said polymeric extraction phase being sized and shaped to fit into an interface of an analytical instrument so said component and calibrant can be desorbed into said instrument. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the polymeric extraction phase comprises poly(dimethylsiloxane), polyethylene glycol, poly(divinylbenzene), polypyrrole, or octadecylchlorosilane derivatised silica. 3. A solid phase microextraction device for sampling and extracting a component contained in a sample said device comprising a polymeric extraction phase and a calibrant non-specifically adsorbed or absorbed in said polymeric extraction phase, said polymeric extraction phase being sized and shaped to fit into an interface of an analytical instrument so said component and calibrant can be desorbed into said instrument, said polymeric extraction phase being a coating on a fiber located in a sheath, wherein said sheath is a needle, said needle is attached to a syringe, said syringe having a plunger, said fiber is attached to said plunger so said fiber is movable longitudinally within said needle, said plunger being able to successively expose a length of said fiber outside of said needle to said sample and retract said fiber into said needle out of contact with said sample. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said interface is an injector of a gas chromatograph. 5. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said interface is a well of a multiwell plate containing desorption solvent. 6. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said polymeric extraction phase is a coating on a fiber. 7. The device as claimed in claim 6 wherein said fiber is made of metal or fused silica. 8. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said sheath has sealing means. 9. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said syringe is a part of an autosampler capable to automatically place said fiber in contact with a vial containing said calibrant to load said calibrant onto said fiber, then transferring said fiber to a sample vial for extraction and then delivering said fiber into said interface for desorption of extracted said component and retained said calibrant into said analytical instrument. 10. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said calibrant is an isotopically labeled analogue of said component. 11. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said polymeric extraction phase is made of biocompatible polymer. 12. The device as claimed in claim 3 wherein said polymeric extraction phase is made of poly(dimethylsiloxane). 13. A solid phase microextraction device for sampling and extracting a component contained in a sample said device comprising a polymeric extraction phase and a calibrant non-specifically adsorbed or absorbed in said polymeric extraction phase, said polymeric extraction phase being sized and shaped to fit into an interface of an analytical instrument so said component and calibrant can be desorbed into said instrument, said polymeric extraction phase being shaped as a thin membrane, wherein said membrane is attached to a handle, said membrane being folded by rolling the membrane around the handle, there being a sheath into which the rolled up membrane can be inserted said sheath being sized and shaped to fit into said interface of said analytical instrument. 14. The device as claimed in claim 13 wherein said calibrant is an isotopically labeled analogue of said component. 15. The device as claimed in claim 13 wherein said polymeric extraction phase is made of biocompatible polymer. 16. The device as claimed in claim 13 wherein said polymeric extraction phase is made of poly(dimethylsiloxane). 