A camera alignment system that can enable alignment in at least one of three planes and about an axis of at least one of the planes. An alignment mount can mate to a camera and lens. The alignment mount can comprise a mechanism to adjust the camera relative to the lens to that an image plane of the camera aligns with an image plane of the lens in a predetermined orientation. One predetermined orientation can be that the image plane of the camera being parallel to the image plane of the lens.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sequence detection system comprising: a lens having an optic assembly; a collection camera having a photo detector; an alignment mount that mates said lens to said collection camera, comprising a first plate having a first mounting face, a first mating face parallel to said first mounting face, and a first aperture disposed through said first mounting face and said first mating face; a second plate having a second mounting face, a second mating face parallel to said second mounting face, and a second aperture disposed through said second mounting face and second mating face, said second mating face being positioned generally parallel to said first mating face and said second aperture being concentric with said first aperture; at least one first adjustment screw extending between and separating said first mating face and said second mating face; and a resilient member coupled to said first plate and said second plate and biasing said first mating face towards said second mating face; an excitation system, and a microplate illuminated by said excitation system and concentric with said lens wherein said first mounting face and said second mounting face are mounted between said lens and said collection camera and wherein said at least one first adjustment screw adjusts said generally parallel relationship of said first mating face and said second mating face, thereby adjusting a parallelism between an image plane of said optic assembly and an image plane of said photo detector. 2. The sequence detection system of claim 1, further comprising: a gasket positioned between said first mating face and second mating face. 3. The sequence detection system of claim 2 wherein said gasket is formed of closed cell foam. 4. The sequence detection system of claim 1 wherein said resilient member is a spring. 5. The sequence detection system of claim 1 wherein said at least one first adjustment screw has a thread pitch between 80 and 100 threads per inch (TPI), inclusive. 6. The sequence detection system of claim 1 wherein said at least one first adjustment screw is ball-end set screws. 7. The sequence detection system of claim 1, further comprising at least one mirror positioned between said lens and said microplate. 8. The sequence detection system of claim 1 further comprising: a mounting ring; a groove formed in said first mounting face around a perimeter of said first aperture, said mounting ring being positioned in said groove; and at least one second adjustment screw extending between said first plate and said mounting ring wherein one of said lens and said collection camera is mounted to said mounting ring and wherein said at least one second adjustment screw adjusts an axial axis of said optic assembly so that it is concentric with an axial axis of said photo detector. 9. The sequence detection system of claim 8, further comprising: a retaining ring secured to said first plate and covering at least a portion of said groove and a portion of said mounting ring, thereby retaining said mounting ring in said groove. 10. The sequence detection system of claim 8 wherein said second at least one second adjustment screw has a thread pitch between 80 and 100 threads per inch (TPI), inclusive. 11. The sequence detection system of claim 8 wherein said at least one second adjustment screw is a ball-end set screw. 12. The sequence detection system of claim 8, further comprising: at least one mirror positioned between said lens and said microplate. 