An apparatus and method for preconditioning a magnetic recording disk is provided in which two substantially identical, but opposing, pancake coils are disposed generally parallel to one another with a gap therebetween into which a disk to be preconditioned is inserted. A large pulse of current is delivered to the coils to generate a magnetic field that is sufficiently strong to precondition the disk. The radial fields of each respective pancake coil add together in the gap where the disk is located, and the field presets both the data layer and the hard bias layer of the SUL. Outside of the gap region, the fields cancel one another such that there are essentially no perpendicular fields due to the symmetry of the coils, such that there is very little net residual perpendicular magnetization when the disk is removed from the gap. An electrical circuit for producing the current pulse is provided. An aluminum support structure provides thermal management and magnetic flux conductivity for the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a pair of opposing pancake coils disposed generally parallel to one another with a gap defined therebetween, wherein said gap is configured to receive a magnetic storage disk for preconditioning; a support member to provide mechanical support for each respective pancake coil; an electrical circuit for generating and driving a current pulse into said pair of opposing pancake coils to induce a magnetic field substantially directed in a plane of said magnetic storage disk; and an assembly configured to automatically retrieve said magnetic storage disk and place said magnetic storage disk into said gap. 2. The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said magnetic field is of a strength adequate to set a data layer of said magnetic storage disk to an equivalent of an AC demagnetization state. 3. The apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said magnetic field is of a strength of at least 9000 Oersteds. 4. The apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said magnetic field sets a hard bias layer of a soft underlayer of said magnetic storage disk so that said soft underlayer is radially biased and substantially domain wall free. 5. The apparatus as defined in claim 4 wherein said magnetic field also sets a data layer of said magnetic storage disk. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said electrical circuit includes a silicon controlled rectifier circuit and a capacitor that is operable to discharge to produce said current pulse. 7. The apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein said electrical circuit further comprises a free wheeling diode operable to resist stray current from flowing back into said capacitor. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said support structure includes a generally round aluminum plate component comprised of raised spoke surfaces with apertures therebetween. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pair of opposing pancake coils are electrically coupled in parallel. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pair of opposing pancake coils are electrically coupled in series. 11. A method comprising: configuring a pair of opposing pancake coils disposed generally parallel to one another with a gap defined therebetween, wherein said gap is configured to receive a magnetic storage disk for preconditioning; driving a current pulse into said pancake coils to produce a magnetic field; supporting mechanically each respective pancake coil against repulsive forces occurring when said current is driven to said pancake coils; and automatically retrieving said magnetic storage disk and placing said magnetic storage disk into said gap. 12. The method as defined in claim 11 further comprising placing said magnetic storage disk in said gap and driving said current pulse of a magnitude such that a data layer of said disk is preset to an equivalent of an AC demagnetization state. 13. The method as defined in claim 11 further comprising placing said magnetic storage disk in said gap and driving said current pulse to said pair of opposing pancake coils of a magnitude wherein a hard bias layer of a soft underlayer is radially biased and rendered substantially domain wall free. 14. The method as defined in claim 11 further comprising placing said magnetic storage disk in said gap and driving said current pulse to said pair of opposing pancake coils of a magnitude such that both a data layer of said disk is preset to an equivalent of an AC demagnetization state and a hard bias layer of a soft underlayer is radially biased and rendered substantially domain wall free. 15. The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said magnetic field produced by said pair of opposing pancake coils is radial in shape. 16. The apparatus as defined in claim 1 wherein said magnetic field produced by said pair of opposing pancake coils has an outer diameter larger than an outer diameter of said magnetic storage disk. 17. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein said magnetic field produced by said pair of opposing pancake coils has an outer diameter larger than an outer diameter of a magnetic storage disk. 18. The method as defined in claim 11 wherein a magnetic field produced by said pair of opposing pancake coils is radial in shape. 