A system to provide various content services based on a network to users includes a service provider to provide a service using the network, a user to receive the service, and a service framework to provide the service to the user through the network. The service framework includes a messenger device that manages the service transmitted between the service provider and the user. Content services, which are being provided based on a network, can be provided to various terminals including not only a PC and a mobile phone, but also a robot. Thus, extending services is easy and the user can conveniently receive desired information from a knowledge provider or website without performing repetitive operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system to provide services based on a network, the system comprising: a service provider to provide a content service using a network; a user to receive the content service; and a service framework to provide the content service to the user through the network, wherein the service framework includes a messenger device that includes a messenger server and messenger clients and transmits data through a network so as to manages the content service transmitted between the service provider and the user, wherein the messenger device includes a database to store information used to provide a service to the user without connecting to the service provider, the database learns the content service provided by the service provider through the service framework and provides the content service to the user using the learned service without connection to the service provider. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the content service provider includes all users registered in the messenger device to provide the service. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the service provider comprises: a knowledge provider connected to the service framework through a terminal; a website connected directly to the service framework; and a service application that a service operator provides as a client. 4. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a user terminal having a user interface device to provide the content service to the user, wherein the user terminal includes at least one of a personal computer (PC), a laptop, a mobile phone, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), and a robot to communicate through the network and run a messenger application. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the service framework further includes a plurality of first mapping units to convert a sensor input into a text input and a plurality of second mapping units to convert the text input into an actuator output, and wherein the messenger device includes a plurality of messenger clients corresponding respectively to the plurality of first and second mapping units. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the plurality of messenger clients includes a plurality of clients corresponding to the service provider and the user. 7. The system according to claim 3, wherein the service framework further includes an interface unit to perform independent interfacing between the website and the messenger device, and wherein the messenger device includes a messenger client corresponding to the interface unit. 8. A method to provide services through a messenger device between a service provider and a user based on a network, the method comprising: receiving at the messenger device a content service from a service provider through the network; providing from the messenger device the content service to a user; and managing the messenger device the content service provided to the user wherein the messenger device includes a database to store information used to provide a service to the user without connecting to the service provider, the database learns the content service provided by the service provider through the service framework and provides the content service to the user using the learned service without connection to the service provider. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein managing the content service includes selecting, when the user has asked a question without specifying an answerer, an answerer for the question and forwarding an answer given by the specified answerer to the user. 10. The method according to claim 8, wherein managing the content service includes transferring, when the user has specified an answerer and asked a question, an answer given by the service provider corresponding to the specified answerer to the user. 11. The method according to claim 8, wherein managing the content service includes controlling, when a terminal used to provide the content service to the user is a robot, the robot so that command text issued by the service provider is transferred to the user through the robot. 12. The method according to claim 8, wherein managing the content service includes allowing, when a terminal used to provide the content service to the user is a robot, the user to converse with the service provider through the robot. 13. The method according to claim 8, wherein managing the content service includes transferring, when a terminal used to provide the service to the user is a robot, information of the service provider to the user through the robot. 14. A service providing system, comprising: a service provider to provide a service through a network; and a messenger device to transmit the service through the network to a user, to manage the transmitted service, and to store information used to provide the transmitted service to the user without connecting to the service provider, wherein the messenger device includes a database to store information used to provide a service to the user without connecting to the service provider, the database learns the content service provided by the service provider through the service framework and provides the content service to the user using the learned service without connection to the service provider. 15. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having embodied thereon a computer program to execute a method, wherein the method comprises: providing a content service through a network; transmitting the content service through the network to a user; managing the transmitted content service; storing information used to learn the transmitted content service and used to provide the transmitted content service to the user without connecting to the service provider; and providing the content service to the user using the learned content service without connection to the service provider. 