A diagnostic tools and methods are disclosed. The diagnostic tool is configured or operable to nominate a commonly connected component in a target system as being faulty if more than a pre-determined number of active components connected to the commonly connected component appear faulty.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for diagnosing faults in a target system comprising: receiving sensor data for sensors in the target system; using the received data to generate system specific data; searching for potentially faulty components by applying a plurality of diagnostic tools to the received and/or generated data, which tools are operable to nominate components that are potentially faulty; storing a fault suspicion indicator for each component that is nominated as being faulty; focusing the search for potentially faulty components using details of the nominated faulty components, preferably component specific design information and creating a list of potentially faulty components based on the results of the steps of searching and focusing. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of storing a fault suspicion indicator involves allocating a measure of suspicion to every potentially faulty component and changing this, typically increasing this, each time that component is nominated as faulty by one of the diagnostic tools. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 comprising storing the sensor data and/or generated data as a function of time. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3 wherein the step of focusing uses the time dependent data to determine if there is a correlation between the behaviour of a faulty component and any other components. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of focusing involves identifying commonly connected components associated with components that are suspected of being faulty. 6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein only active components are considered. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a step of analysing component specific data to determine whether components are faulty, preferably wherein the component specific data is provided in a knowledge database that has the same structure as the topological model. 8. A diagnostics system for detecting and/or diagnosing faults in a target system, the system being configured or operable to: receive sensor data for sensors in the target system; generate system specific data, using the received data; search for potentially faulty components by applying a plurality of diagnostic tools to the received and/or generated data, which tools are operable to nominate components that are potentially faulty; store a fault suspicion indicator for each component that is nominated as being faulty; focus the search for potentially faulty components using details of the nominated faulty components and create a list of potentially faulty components based on the results of the steps of searching and focusing. 9. A system as claimed in claim 8 further comprising a knowledge store that has a structure that reflects or corresponds to that of the topological map, the store having a plurality of sections or libraries each of which is provided for storing data associated with one of the nodes defined in the topological map. 10. A non-transitory computer readable medium having a computer program, for diagnosing faults in a target system, the computer program having code or instructions for: processing data received from one or more sensors on the target system to generate system specific data; searching for potentially faulty components by applying a plurality of diagnostic tools to the received and/or generated data, which tools are operable to nominate components that are potentially faulty; storing a fault suspicion indicator for each component that is nominated as being faulty; focusing the search for potentially faulty components using details of the nominated faulty components and creating a list of potentially faulty components based on the results of the steps of searching and focusing. 