A system for use in preparing an articulating surface of a component of an orthopaedic implant is provided. The system includes a magnetorheological polishing fluid including a carrier fluid and a plurality of particles suspendable in said carrier fluid. The system also includes a vessel for containing the Magnetorheological polishing fluid. The system also includes a mechanism for delivering the fluid to form a polishing zone and a holder for securing the component and for moveably positioning the articulating surface of the component relative to the polishing zone. The system further includes a controller for determining the rate of material removal from the object, for determining the direction and velocity of movement of the polishing zone relative to the object and for determining the number of cycles of polishing required.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of preparing a component of a prosthetic implant for use in orthopaedic surgery, comprising: forming a magnetorheological polishing fluid including nanoparticles coated in a two-stage microwave plasma synthesis process; providing the magnetorheological polishing fluid to a polishing zone; controlling the consistency of the magnetorheological polishing fluid in the polishing zone; bringing the component into contact with the magnetorheological polishing fluid in the polishing zone; causing the component and the magnetorheological polishing fluid in the polishing zone to move with respect to each other; monitoring the rate of material removal from the component; determining the direction and velocity of movement of the polishing zone relative to the component; and determining the number of cycles of polishing to be performed on the component. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the number of cycles of polishing comprises: determining the initial root means square height of surface irregularities of the component; determining the initial surface shape of the component; and determining the amount of material to be removed from the component during one cycle of polishing. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using an interferometer to measure the surface form of the component; providing said measured surface form to a programmable controller; and comparing said measured surface form to a reference surface form or reference algorithm. 