A storage device transporter is provided for transporting a storage device and for mounting a storage device within a test slot. The storage device transporter includes a frame that is configured to receive and support a storage device, and a clamping mechanism associated with the frame. The clamping mechanism is operable to apply a clamping force to a storage device supported by the frame The storage device transporter also includes a temperature sensor (e.g., a thermocouple). The clamping mechanism is operable to move the temperature sensor into contact with a storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device transporter for transporting a storage device and for mounting the storage device within a test slot, the storage device transporter comprising: a frame configured to receive and support the storage device; and a clamping mechanism associated with the frame and operable to apply a clamping force to the storage device supported by the frame; a temperature sensor; and printed circuitry comprising one or more electrically conductive layers; wherein the temperature sensor is integrated in the one or more electrically conductive layers, and wherein the clamping mechanism is operable to move the temperature sensor into contact with the storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device. 2. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the temperature sensor comprises a thermocouple. 3. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the printed circuitry comprises a printed wiring board. 4. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the printed circuitry comprises a flexible printed circuit. 5. A storage device transporter for transporting a storage device and for mounting the storage device within a test slot, the storage device transporter comprising: a frame configured to receive and support the storage device; and a clamping mechanism associated with the frame and operable to apply a clamping force to the storage device supported by the frame; a temperature sensor; and an electric heating element arranged to heat the storage device supported by the frame, wherein the clamping mechanism is operable to move the temperature sensor into contact with the storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device. 6. The storage device transporter of claim 5, wherein the electric heating element is a resistive heater. 7. The storage device transporter of claim 5, wherein the clamping mechanism is operable to move the temperature sensor and the electric heating element into contact with the storage device supported by the frame. 8. The storage device transporter of claim 5, wherein the temperature sensor comprises a thermocouple. 9. A test slot assembly comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, ii.) a temperature sensor, iii.) a clamping mechanism associated with the frame, the clamping mechanism being operable to apply a clamping force to the storage device supported by the frame and configured to move the temperature sensor into contact with the storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device, and iv.) printed circuitry comprising contact terminals in electrical communication with the temperature sensor; and B.) a test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter, ii) a connection interface circuit, and iii) electrically conductive contacts in electrical communication with the connection interface circuit and arranged to engage the contact terminals of the printed circuitry when the storage device transporter is in the test compartment. 10. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the printed circuitry comprises one or more electrically conductive layers, and wherein the temperature sensor is integrated in the one or more electrically conductive layers. 11. The test slot assembly of claim 10, wherein the printed circuitry further comprises an electric heating element integrated in the one or more electrically conductive layers. 12. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the temperature sensor is a thermocouple. 13. The test slot assembly of claim 9, wherein the clamping mechanism is operable to clamp the storage device transporter within the test compartment. 14. A test slot assembly comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, ii.) a temperature sensor, iii.) a clamping mechanism associated with the frame, the clamping mechanism being operable to apply a clamping force to the storage device supported by the frame and configured to move the temperature sensor into contact with the storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device, and iv.) printed circuitry comprising one or more electrically conductive layers; wherein the temperature sensor is integrated in the one or more electrically conductive layers; and B.) a test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter. 15. The test slot assembly of claim 14, wherein the temperature sensor is a thermocouple. 16. The test slot assembly of claim 14, wherein the clamping mechanism is operable to clamp the storage device transporter within the test compartment. 17. A test slot assembly comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, ii.) a temperature sensor, iii.) a clamping mechanism associated with the frame, the clamping mechanism being operable to apply a clamping force to the storage device supported by the frame and configured to move the temperature sensor into contact with the storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device, and iv.) an electrical heating element arranged to heat the storage device supported by the frame; and B.) a test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter. 18. The test slot assembly of claim 17, wherein the clamping mechanism is operable to move the temperature sensor and the electric heating element into contact with the storage device supported by the frame. 19. The test slot assembly of claim 17, wherein the temperature sensor is a thermocouple. 20. The test slot assembly of claim 17, wherein the clamping mechanism is operable to clamp the storage device transporter within the test compartment. 21. A storage device testing system comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, ii.) a temperature sensor, iii.) a clamping mechanism associated with the frame, the clamping mechanism being operable to apply a clamping force to the storage device supported by the frame and configured to move the temperature sensor into contact with the storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device, and iv.) an electric heating element arranged to heat the storage device supported by the frame; and B.) a test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter; ii.) a connection interface board; and C.) test electronics configured to communicate one or more test routines to a storage device disposed within the test compartment, wherein the connection interface board is configured to provide electrical communication between the temperatures sensor and the test electronics when the storage device transporter is disposed within the test compartment. 22. The storage device testing system of claim 21, wherein the test electronics are configured to monitor a temperature of a storage device disposed within the test compartment based on signals received from the temperature sensor. 23. The storage device testing system of claim 21, wherein the connection interface board is configured to provide electrical communication between the temperature sensor and the test electronics when the storage device transporter is disposed within the test compartment, and wherein the test electronics are configured to control a current flow to the electric heating elements based, at least in part, on signals received from the temperature sensor. 