Two surgical instruments are inserted through a guide tube. The surgical instruments exit at an intermediate position of the guide tube and are oriented to be substantially parallel to the guide tube's longitudinal axis as they exit. A stereoscopic image capture component is on the guide tube between the intermediate position and the guide tube's distal end. The image capture component's field of view is generally perpendicular to the guide tube's longitudinal axis. The surgical instruments and the guide tube are telemanipulatively controlled.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical instrument assembly comprising: a guide tube comprising a proximal end, a distal end portion having a distal end, and an intermediate position between the proximal end and the distal end portion, wherein a longitudinal axis extends between the proximal and distal ends; a first surgical instrument comprising an end effector, a U-turn mechanism, and a joint between the U-turn mechanism and the end effector, wherein the U-turn mechanism comprises a first end, a second end, and a permanent U-shape section between the first and second ends, the first end of the U-turn mechanism being affixed to and remaining fixed in position relative to the distal end of the guide tube, the second end of the U-turn mechanism being coupled to the end effector, the U-turn mechanism being configured to transmit actuation forces for the end effector and the joint through the U-turn mechanism, and wherein at least a part of the first surgical instrument including at least the U-turn mechanism, the joint, and the end effector extends out from the distal end of the guide tube; a second surgical instrument, wherein at least a part of the second surgical instrument extends out from the guide tube at the intermediate position, and wherein the at least a part of the second surgical instrument extends out generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube; and a stereoscopic image capture component positioned in a fixed location on the guide tube between the intermediate position and the distal end, wherein a field of view of the capture component is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube at a location proximal to the distal end of the guide tube. 2. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the part of the first surgical instrument that extends out from the distal end of the guide tube comprises a flexible segment. 3. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the part of the first surgical instrument that extends out from the distal end of the guide tube comprises a rigid segment. 4. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the part of the second surgical instrument that extends out from the guide tube comprises a parallel motion mechanism; wherein the parallel motion mechanism comprises a proximal end and a distal end; wherein a Cartesian reference frame is defined for the parallel motion mechanism; and wherein with reference to the Cartesian reference frame, the parallel motion mechanism allows a position of the distal end of the parallel motion mechanism to change with reference to the proximal end of the parallel motion mechanism without changing an orientation of the distal end of the parallel motion mechanism with reference to the proximal end of the parallel motion mechanism. 5. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the part of the second surgical instrument that extends out from the guide tube comprises a rigid segment. 6. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the part of the second surgical instrument that extends out from the guide tube comprises a flexible segment. 7. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the second surgical instrument passes through the guide tube and exits from the intermediate position with the at least a part of the second surgical instrument extending out generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube. 8. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a second image capture component positioned on the guide tube; wherein a field of view of the second image capture component is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube. 9. The assembly of claim 1: wherein distal ends of the first and second surgical instruments are positioned within the field of view of the image capture component in an area to the side of the guide tube. 