A fluidic device comprising a capillary for conducting a fluid and a pivot arm configured for being pivoted, wherein the pivot arm supports at least a portion of the capillary, and a part of the capillary is coiled to at least partially compensate stress resulting from pivoting of the pivot arm.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A fluidic device comprising a capillary for conducting a fluid; and a pivot arm configured for being pivoted about a pivot axis; wherein the pivot arm supports at least a portion of the capillary, and a part of the capillary is coiled around the pivot axis to at least partially compensate stress resulting from pivoting of the pivot arm. 2. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the capillary has a needle configured for selectively receiving fluid from or dispensing fluid to a fluid container containing the fluid. 3. The fluidic device according to claim 2, wherein the capillary and the needle are integrally formed. 4. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the capillary has a needle for selectively engaging or disengaging a correspondingly configured seat for dispensing fluid from the capillary into a fluidic conduit in fluid communication with the seat. 5. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the coiled part of the capillary comprises a central portion arranged between two surrounding portions, the central portion having a number of turns per length which is smaller than a number of turns per length of the surrounding portions. 6. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the pivot arm and the capillary are arranged relative to one another such that pivoting the pivot arm around the pivot axis results in a twisting or untwisting of the coiled part of the capillary. 7. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the coiled part of the capillary is configured to at least partially compensate stress acting on the capillary and resulting from a pivoting of the pivot arm together with at least a part of the capillary. 8. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the pivot arm comprises a pivot hinge around which the pivot arm is pivotable, wherein the coiled part of the capillary is arranged along or guided through a through hole of the pivot hinge. 9. The fluidic device according to claim 8, wherein the coiled part of the capillary led through an upper end portion of the through hole is connected to a metering device via an arcuated part of the capillary adjacent the upper end portion and via a sagging part of the capillary adjacent the arcuated part. 10. The fluidic device according to claim 1, further comprising a sleeve disposed along the pivot axis around which the coiled part of the capillary is coiled. 11. The fluidic device according to claim 10, further comprising a cantilever along which a straight part of the capillary is guided. 12. The fluidic device according to claim 11, comprising at least one of the following features: the cantilever and the sleeve are fastenable to one another; the cantilever and the sleeve constitute a cartridge; and the pivot arm is fastenable with the cantilever and the sleeve. 13. The fluidic device according to claim 1, comprising at least one of the following features: the fluidic device further comprises a pump configured for pumping fluid through the capillary; the fluidic device further comprises a raise and lowering mechanism configured for selectively raising or lowering the pivot arm; the fluidic device further comprises a mechanical guide mechanism configured for mechanically guiding the pivot arm along a straight guide rail; the fluidic device further comprises a mechanical guide mechanism configured for mechanically guiding the pivot arm along a straight guide rail, and a spacing member arranged between the pivot arm and the mechanical guide mechanism for spacing the pivot arm with regard to the mechanical guide mechanism; the coiled part of the capillary is helically coiled; the capillary has a lumen having a diameter of less than 1 mm; the capillary comprises at least one material of the group consisting of a metal, duplex steel, super duplex steel, and a cobalt nickel alloy; the capillary is pressure-resistant, particularly resistant against a pressure of at least 100 bar; another part of the capillary carried by the pivot arm is straight, wherein the straight part is angularly connected with the coiled part; another part of the capillary carried by the pivot arm is straight, wherein the straight part is angularly connected with the coiled part, wherein an angle between the straight part and the coiled part is a right angle; a first end portion of the capillary comprises a needle for dipping into a fluid container, and a second end portion of the capillary is connectable to a metering unit; the capillary is configured for being deformed, upon pivoting of the pivot arm over a maximum pivoting angle range, to an extent which is within an elastic deformation range and beyond a plastic deformation range. 14. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the coiled part of the capillary is mounted in a mechanically biased state wherein the coiled part includes a predefined number of turns. 15. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the fluidic device is being configured as an autosampler for injecting a fluidic sample in an apparatus being in fluid communication with the capillary. 16. The fluidic device according to claim 15, wherein the apparatus is a chromatographic column. 17. The fluidic device according to claim 1, comprising at least one of the following features: the fluidic device comprises a sample loop for handling a fluidic sample, wherein the capillary forms part of the sample loop; the fluidic device is configured as a sample separation device for separating a fluidic sample; the fluidic device is configured to analyze at least one physical, chemical and/or biological parameter of at least one compound of a fluidic sample; the fluidic device comprises at least one of the group consisting of a sensor device, a test device for testing a device under test or a substance, a device for chemical, biological and/or pharmaceutical analysis, a capillary electrophoresis device, a liquid chromatography device, an HPLC device, a gas chromatography device, a gel electrophoresis device, and a mass spectroscopy device; the fluidic device is configured to conduct the fluid with a high pressure; the fluidic device is configured to conduct the fluid with a pressure of at least 100 bar the fluidic device is configured to conduct a liquid fluid; the fluidic device is configured as a microfluidic device; the fluidic device is configured as a nanofluidic device. 18. The fluidic device according to claim 1, wherein the fluidic device comprises a processing element for processing a fluidic sample. 19. The fluidic device according to claim 18, comprising at least one of the following features: the processing element is configured for retaining a part of components of a fluidic sample and for allowing other components of a mobile phase to pass the processing element; the processing element comprises a separation column; the processing element comprises a chromatographic column for separating components of a fluidic sample; at least a part of the processing element is filled with a separating material; at least a part of the processing element is filled with a separating material, wherein the separating material comprises beads having a size in the range of 1 pm to 50 pm; at least a part of the processing element is filled with a separating material, wherein the separating material comprises beads having pores having a size in the range of 0.01 pm to 0.2 pm. 20. A method of operating a fluidic device, the method comprising conducting a fluid through a capillary; pivoting a pivot arm about a pivot axis; and supporting at least a portion of the capillary by the pivot arm, wherein a part of the capillary is coiled around the pivot axis to at least partially compensate stress resulting from pivoting of the pivot arm. 