A system for determining a three-dimensional location and orientation of an eye within a camera frame of reference includes a camera, an illuminator, and a processor. The camera captures an image of the eye. The illuminator generates a reflection off of a corneal surface of the eye. The processor computes a first two-dimensional location of a pupil reflection image and a corneal reflection image from the image of the eye. The processor predicts a second two-dimensional location of a pupil reflection image and the corneal reflection image as a function of a set of three-dimensional position and orientation parameters of the eye within the camera frame of reference. The processor iteratively adjusts the set until the first two-dimensional location is substantially the same as the second two-dimensional location. The set is the three-dimensional location and orientation of an eye.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for determining a three-dimensional location and orientation of an eye within a camera frame of reference, comprising: a camera, wherein the camera captures an image of the eye; an illuminator, wherein the illuminator generates a reflection off of a corneal surface of the eye; and a processor, wherein the processor computes a first two-dimensional location of a pupil reflection image and a corneal reflection image from the image of the eye, wherein the processor predicts a second two-dimensional location of a pupil reflection image and the corneal reflection image as a function of a set of three-dimensional position and orientation parameters of the eye within the camera frame of reference, wherein the processor iteratively adjusts the set until the first two-dimensional location is substantially the same as the second two-dimensional location, wherein the set is the three-dimensional location and orientation of an eye, and wherein the processor predicts the second two-dimensional location using optical ray-tracing functions that model an eye shape and camera optics, wherein the optical ray-tracing functions employ an ellipsoidal model for the corneal surface of the eye, the ellipsoidal model further comprising: a nominal radius of curvature at a center of a cornea, a parameter defining a flattening of a corneal curvature toward corneal edges, and a parameter defining a degree of astigmatism on the corneal surface. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the ellipsoidal model further comprising a parameter defining an angle of astigmatism on the corneal surface. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical ray-tracing functions account for a refraction of a pupil image that results from the camera viewing a pupil of through a curved corneal surface. 