Fasteners, such as rivets (60), are fed to a fastener insertion tool (1) via a buffer magazine (5) adjacent to the tool. The buffer is movable with the tool and C-frame (6) between an operative position where fasteners can be inserted into a workpiece and a re-filling position where it is docked at a docking station (13) to reload. Fasteners are delivered to the docking station from a source (14) and held there ready for when the tool docks. Once docked a transfer gate (25, 28) is opened at an interface between the buffer magazine and the docking station and fasteners from the docking station are transferred into the buffer magazine. The quantity of fasteners in the buffer magazine is detected and the last fastener is retained so as to support preceding fasteners loaded into the buffer magazine. Any subsequently loaded fasteners back to the docking station either under gravity, under the influence of a pressurized gas or both. The gate is then closed and the insertion apparatus separates from the docking station.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for feeding fasteners to fastener insertion apparatus, the apparatus comprising a fastener insertion tool, a buffer for the temporary storage of fasteners in a track defined by the buffer, the buffer being proximate the tool and having an inlet and a delivery track for transporting fasteners from the buffer towards a fastener delivery passage of the tool, the insertion apparatus being movable between an operative position where it is able to insert fasteners via the delivery passage in the tool into a workpiece and a re-filling position where it is docked at a docking station so as to permit the buffer to be loaded with fasteners from a source of fasteners connected to the docking station, the method comprising the steps of moving the insertion apparatus to the refilling position such that the buffer is docked to the docking station, transferring fasteners from the docking station into the buffer via the inlet, then expelling from the buffer any excess loaded fasteners that are in excess of a predetermined level back through the buffer inlet to the docking station, undocking the insertion apparatus from the docking station, transferring at least one fastener from the buffer to the fastener insertion tool, and then using the fastener insertion apparatus to insert a fastener into or onto a workpiece. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising detecting when the buffer is loaded with a predetermined quantity of fasteners and retaining at least the last loaded fastener in said predetermined quantity of fasteners so as to retain all preceding fasteners loaded into the buffer before expelling said excess loaded fasteners. 3. A method according to claim 2, the fasteners having a head and a shank and being loaded into the buffer such the longitudinal axes of the shanks are substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the buffer. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein the last loaded fastener is retained by a member coming into contact with the base of its shank. 5. A method according to claim 2, wherein the last loaded fastener is retained by using a probe, the probe being extensible between a retracted position where it is clear of the track defined by the buffer and an extended position wherein extends into the track through a port in the buffer so as to hold the fastener, the probe being in an extended position when holding the fastener. 6. A method according to claim 5, the probe being used to perform the step of detecting when the buffer has been loaded to a predetermined level which corresponds to the buffer containing said predetermined quantity of fasteners, the probe being movable between said retracted position and a fully extended position where it extends across the track thereby identifying that there is no fastener present at said level, the probe being in a partially extended position when it detects the presence of the fastener and being in contact with the fastener in the partially extended position. 7. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of opening a transfer gate at an interface between an inlet of the buffer and the docking station after the insertion apparatus has docked and closing the gate before undocking the insertion apparatus. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the buffer is disposed in a substantially upright position and the fasteners are loaded from below, the excess loaded fasteners being expelled under gravity. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the excess loaded fasteners expelled by transferring them back under the pressure of a gas. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the gas pressure is applied in a blast. 11. A method according to claim 9, wherein the gas pressure is directed to impinge upon a leading one of the excess loaded fasteners. 12. A method according to claim 9, wherein the gas pressure is delivered through a passage in the transfer gate. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein gas pressure is used to blow the fasteners so as to transfer them from the docking station to the buffer. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the gas pressure is supplied from a port at the docking station. 15. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of escaping fasteners from an end of the buffer opposite the end at which it is loaded and feeding them to the tool. 16. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a storage track at the docking station for interfacing with the buffer of the fastener insertion apparatus when docked. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein fasteners are temporarily stored in the storage track at the docking station prior to transfer to the buffer. 18. A method according to claim 16, wherein the storage track is defined in a magazine at the docking station. 19. A method according to claim 16, wherein the storage track is disposed in a substantially upright position. 20. A method according to claim 16, further comprising the step of delivering fasteners to the storage track from a bulk source of fasteners prior to docking the fastener insertion apparatus with the docking station. 21. A method according to claim 20, wherein the fasteners are blown to the storage track in a delivery tube via gas pressure. 22. A method according to claim 21, wherein the same gas pressure is used to transfer the fasteners to the buffer when the fastener insertion apparatus is docked. 23. A method according to claim 21, wherein a separate source of gas pressure is applied to transfer the fasteners to the buffer. 24. A method according to claim 23, wherein the separate source of gas pressure in applied through a port in the storage track. 25. A method according to claim 16, further comprising the step of detecting whether the storage track at the docking station has been filled to a predetermined level. 26. A method according to claim 25, wherein if no fastener is detected at the predetermined level further fasteners are delivered to the storage track and if a fastener is detected no such fasteners are delivered. 27. A method according to claim 25, wherein a probe is used to detect whether a fastener is present at said level, the probe being movable between a retracted position in which it is clear of the storage track and an extended position where is extends into the track. 28. A method according to claim 27, the probe being movable between said retracted position and a fully extended position where it extends across the track thereby identifying that there is no fastener present at said level, the probe being in a partially extended position when it detects the presence of the fastener and being in contact with the fastener in the partially extended position. 29. A method according to claim 28, wherein the fastener has a head and a shank, the probe contacting an end of the fastener opposite the head. 30. A method according to claim 16, wherein the fasteners are held in the storage track of the docking station prior to transfer to the buffer of the insertion apparatus. 31. A method according to claim 30, wherein the fasteners are selectively held in the storage track by a gate that is movable between an open position in which allows fasteners to drop out of the storage track and a closed position in which it prevents such movement of the fasteners. 32. A method according to claim 31, wherein the gate has a passage for pressurised gas that is in brought into communication with the storage track when the gate is in the closed position so that fasteners can be propelled into the buffer of the insertion apparatus. 33. A method according to claims 16, wherein the fasteners in the storage track are allowed to drop back out of the storage track under gravity before being transferred to the buffer. 34. A method according to claim 16, wherein when the apparatus is docked to the station, the storage track is aligned with the track in the buffer. 35. A method according to claim 1, comprising the step of providing the docking station and the fastener insertion each with a transfer gate, the gates being moved in unison between open and closed positions when the apparatus is docked to the stand. 36. A method according to claim 1, wherein any pre-existing fasteners in the buffer are held there whilst the insertion apparatus docks with the docking stand. 37. Fastener feed apparatus for feeding fasteners to a fastener insertion tool, the apparatus comprising a movable buffer for the temporary storage of a plurality of fasteners in a track defined by the buffer, the buffer having an inlet and an outlet and being configured to be located proximate the tool and for movement therewith, a first delivery track for transporting fasteners from an outlet of the buffer towards a fastener delivery passage of the tool, a docking station at which the buffer is to be docked to enable it to be refilled with fasteners, a second delivery track for transporting fasteners from a source to the docking station, a first docking interface defined at or near the inlet of the buffer and a second docking interface defined by the docking station, the fastener insertion tool being moveable from an undocked position to a docked position where the first and second docking interfaces are docked together, a first transfer device for transferring fasteners from the docking station into the buffer, a retaining member for retaining a pre-selected quantity of fasteners in the buffer against movement back towards the docking station, any fasteners in the buffer in excess of said pre-selected quantity being allowed by the retaining member to move back towards the docking station, at least one transfer gate disposed at one of said first and second docking interfaces, the gate being movable between an open position whereby fasteners can be transferred past the gate from the docking station to the inlet of the buffer and a closed position where fasteners are prevented from passing the gate, the transfer gate comprising a member having a fastener opening therethrough, wherein in the open position the opening is aligned with the buffer track and in the closed position it is out of alignment therewith. 38. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the transfer gate is slidable between the open and closed positions. 39. Apparatus according to claim 38, the transfer gate being movable by an actuator controlled by a control system. 40. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the transfer gate is disposed at the inlet of the buffer. 41. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the retaining member is movable between a withdrawn position where it is does not contact the fasteners and an operative position where it extends into the buffer track at a pre-selected position between the inlet and a predetermined distance from the outlet of the buffer, said predetermined distance corresponding to that which said pre-selected quantity of fasteners would occupy in the buffer. 42. Apparatus according to claim 41, wherein the buffer has a housing and the retaining member extends through a port in the housing and into the track when in the operative position such that, when in use, it contacts a fastener, if present, at said pre-selected position. 43. Apparatus according to claim 41, wherein the buffer track is designed to accommodate fasteners with a head and a shank, the track defining a support surface for supporting the underside of the head, and a relatively narrow opening for receipt of the shank. 44. Apparatus according to claim 43, wherein the track defines a T-shaped cross-section opening, with the transition between the head and stem of the T defining the support surface. 45. Apparatus according to claim 44, wherein the retaining member, when in the operative position, projects into the track from a side opposite said surfaces so as, in use, to contact an underside of the shank of the fastener. 46. Apparatus according to claim 41, wherein the retaining member is a slidable member mounted adjacent to the port in the buffer housing. 47. Apparatus according to claim 46, wherein the transfer gate is at the outlet of the delivery track. 48. Apparatus according to claim 47, wherein the transfer gate has a fastener opening that is aligned with the outlet of the storage track when the gate is in the open position and is not aligned when the gate is in the closed position. 49. Apparatus according to claim 48, wherein the transfer gate comprises a first gate section at the buffer inlet and a second gate section at the outlet of the storage track, the two gate sections being movable in unison when the insertion apparatus is docked at the docking stand. 50. Apparatus according to claim 49, wherein there are co-operating engagement members for connecting the transfer gate sections together. 51. Apparatus according to claim 49, wherein the transfer gate is movable by an actuator that is located adjacent to the storage track. 52. Apparatus according to claim 48, wherein the transfer gate sections each defined docking faces that come into abutment when the docking interfaces are docked. 53. Apparatus according to claim 41 wherein the port and the retaining member are disposed adjacent to the inlet of buffer. 54. Apparatus according to claim 41, wherein there is provided means for detecting when the buffer is loaded with said pre-selected quantity of fasteners. 55. Apparatus according to claim 54, wherein the retaining member is the means for detecting. 56. Apparatus according to claim 55, wherein the retaining member is movable between a fully extended position in the track wherein there is no fastener present at said pre-selected position, and a partially extended position in which it contacts a fastener. 57. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the retaining member is movable by an actuator that is controlled by a control system. 58. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein there is provided means for detecting when the buffer is loaded with said pre-selected quantity of fasteners. 59. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the retaining member is adjacent to transfer gate. 60. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the buffer is in the form of a magazine. 61. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the retaining member occupies a sealed housing. 62. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the docking station has a storage track for temporary storage of a plurality of fasteners, the track having an inlet for connection to a source of fasteners and an outlet for communication with the inlet of the buffer. 63. Apparatus according to claim 62, wherein there is provided means for detecting whether or not the storage track contains a pre-determined quantity of fasteners. 64. Apparatus according to claim 63, wherein the means for detecting is a probe that is movable between a retracted position where it is clear of the track and an extended position in which it extends into the track. 65. Apparatus according to claim 64, wherein the probe is movable between the retracted position, a fully extended position where there is no fastener present and it extends across the track, and a partially extended position where it extends partially across the track and is prevented from moving to the fully extended position by the presence of a fastener, it being determined that a fastener is present by the fact that the probe is in the partially extended position. 66. Apparatus according to claim 65, wherein the storage track is defined by a housing and the probe is extensible through a port in the housing and into the track. 67. Apparatus according to claim 66, wherein the storage track is designed to accommodate fasteners with a head and a shank, the track defining a support surface for supporting the underside of the head, and a relatively narrow opening for receipt of the shank. 68. Apparatus according to claim 67, wherein the track defines a T-shaped cross-section opening, with the transition between the head and stem of the T defining the support surface. 69. Apparatus according to claim 68, wherein the port opens to the bottom of the stem of the T-shaped opening. 70. Apparatus according to claim 64, wherein the probe is disposed proximate to the inlet of the storage track. 71. Apparatus according to claim 62, wherein the probe is housed in a sealed housing. 72. Apparatus according to claim 62, wherein the first transfer device comprises a passage proximate the inlet of the storage track for supply of pressurised gas to the track in a direction towards the storage track outlet. 73. Apparatus according to claim 72, when dependent on claim 69, wherein the passage is defined a wall of said housing. 74. Apparatus according to claim 62, wherein there is provided a retaining member for retaining fasteners in the storage track. 75. Apparatus according to claim 74, wherein the retaining member is a gate disposed at or adjacent to said inlet, the gate being movable between an open position wherein the inlet is open to the passage of fasteners and a closed position where it blocks the inlet and fasteners may be retained in the track. 76. Apparatus according to claim 75, wherein the gate is movable laterally of the track. 77. Apparatus according to claim 75, wherein the first transfer device comprises a compressed gas passage in the gate for connection to a source of compressed gas. 78. Apparatus according to claim 77, wherein the compressed gas passage is configured to be in communication with the storage track when the gate is in the closed position so that gas may be used to propel the fasteners up the track and to transfer them across to the buffer. 79. Apparatus according to claim 62, further comprising a supply delivery track having an inlet for connection to a source of fasteners and an outlet for connection to the storage track of the docking station. 80. Apparatus according to claim 79, wherein the compressed gas passage is sealed from communication with the supply delivery track. 81. Apparatus according to claim 80, wherein there is provided a first source of pressurised gas for propelling fasteners along the supply delivery track to the docking station. 82. Apparatus according to claim 81, wherein the first transfer device comprises a second source of pressurised gas for propelling fasteners from the docking station to the buffer. 83. Apparatus according to claim 62, wherein the storage track is rigid. 84. Apparatus according to claim 62, wherein the track is substantially upright. 85. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the docking station comprises a stand having a base for mounting on the floor. 86. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the buffer is a rigid member. 87. Apparatus according to claim 86, wherein the supply delivery track is flexible. 88. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the buffer is disposed substantially upright such that when the gate is open and no force is applied to propel the fasteners and the retaining member is not in an operative position where it is retaining said fasteners, said fasteners are free to fall back to the docking station under gravity. 89. Apparatus according to claim 37, wherein the fasteners are rivets. 90. Fastener feed apparatus for feeding fasteners to a fastener insertion tool, the apparatus comprising a movable buffer for the temporary storage of a plurality of fasteners in a track defined by the buffer, the buffer having an inlet and an outlet and being configured to be located proximate the tool and for movement therewith, a first delivery track for transporting fasteners from an outlet of the buffer towards a fastener delivery passage of the tool, a docking station at which the buffer is to be docked to enable it to be refilled with fasteners, a second delivery track for transporting fasteners from a source to the docking station, a first docking interface defined at or near the inlet of the buffer and a second docking interface defined by the docking station, the fastener insertion tool being moveable from an undocked position to a docked position where the first and second docking interfaces are docked together, a first transfer device for transferring fasteners from the docking station into the buffer, a retaining member for retaining a pre-selected quantity of fasteners in the buffer against movement back towards the docking station, any fasteners in the buffer in excess of said pre-selected quantity being allowed by the retaining member to move back towards the docking station, at least one transfer gate disposed at one of said first and second docking interfaces, the gate being movable between an open position whereby fasteners can be transferred past the gate from the docking station to the inlet of the buffer and a closed position where fasteners are prevented from passing the gate, and a second transfer device for transferring any excess fasteners transferred to the buffer behind the retained fasteners back to the docking station, wherein said second transfer device comprises a passage defined in the transfer gate for the direction of pressurised gas to a position in the buffer between the inlet and a predetermined distance from the outlet of the buffer, said predetermined distance corresponding to that which said pre-selected quantity of fasteners would occupy in the buffer, the transfer gate comprising a member having a fastener opening therethrough, wherein in the open position the opening is aligned with the buffer track and in the closed position it is out of alignment therewith. 91. Apparatus according to claim 90, wherein the passage is adjacent to the opening. 92. A method of manufacturing a joint including feeding fasteners to fastener insertion apparatus, the apparatus comprising a fastener insertion tool, a buffer for the temporary storage of fasteners in a track defined by the buffer, the buffer being proximate the tool and having an inlet and a delivery track for transporting fasteners from the buffer towards a fastener delivery passage of the tool, the insertion apparatus being movable between an operative position where it is able to insert fasteners via the delivery passage in the tool into a workpiece and a re-filling position where it is docked at a docking station so as to permit the buffer to be loaded with fasteners from a source of fasteners connected to the docking station, the method comprising the steps of moving the insertion apparatus to the refilling position such that the buffer is docked to the docking station, transferring fasteners from the docking station into the buffer via the inlet, then expelling from the buffer any excess loaded fasteners that are in excess of a predetermined level back through the buffer inlet to the docking station, undocking the insertion apparatus from the docking station, transferring at least one fastener from the buffer to the fastener insertion tool, and then using the fastener insertion apparatus to insert a fastener into or onto a workpiece. 