A method for construction of structures from blocks of building material, such as quarried rocks, which includes scanning irregularly or randomly shaped blocks of building material, the blocks having no pre-existing required arrangement, to obtain scan data representing the respective size and shape of each of the blocks. Each scanned block is uniquely identified and associated with the corresponding scan data. A virtual structure is determined, representing the size and shape of the structure to be constructed. Scan data is processed according to at least one predetermined criterion to choose at least one scanned block and determine a desired orientation and position of the at least one scanned block within the virtual structure; and build data is output, representing instructions regarding the desired position of the scanned block in the structure. Build data may be used to construct the structure one block at a time, or in batches of blocks.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method of constructing a structure, including: scanning into a computer memory a plurality of irregularly or randomly shaped blocks of building material, the blocks having no pre-existing required arrangement, to obtain scan data in a computer memory representing the respective size and shape of each of the blocks; uniquely identifying each scanned block and associating each scanned block with the corresponding scan data using a computer processor; determining a virtual structure, representing the size and shape of the structure to be constructed using a computer processor; processing with a computer processor, the scan data according to at least one predetermined criterion to choose at least one scanned block and determine a desired orientation and position of the at least one scanned block within the virtual structure; and outputting build data to an output device representing instructions regarding the desired position of the at least one positioned scanned block in the structure, wherein the scan data is three dimensional (3D) scan data representing the entire 3D surface configuration of each of the blocks, and wherein the at least one predetermined criterion is structural stability of the structure. 2. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the processing includes: using the scan data to create at least one virtual block corresponding to one of the scanned blocks, and choosing and positioning the at least one virtual block in the virtual structure. 3. A computer-implemented method according to claim 2, wherein the processing includes: extrapolating the faces of a positioned virtual block to define virtual spaces within the virtual structure; and placing a further virtual block within one of the virtual spaces. 4. A computer-implemented method according to claim 3, wherein the extrapolating of the faces of positioned virtual blocks to define virtual spaces within the virtual structure, and the placing of further virtual blocks within one of the virtual spaces is repeated until no more virtual blocks can be placed in the virtual structure. 5. A computer-implemented method according to claim 3, wherein the virtual structure includes at least one corner and the at least one predetermined criterion includes a criterion to place at least one of the virtual blocks in the corner of the virtual structure. 6. A computer-implemented method according to claim 2 wherein the processing also includes creating extended virtual blocks, which are modified from the scanned blocks they represent. 7. A computer-implemented method according to claim 2, wherein the processing also includes creating virtual block combinations, which represent a plurality of scanned blocks, and which are placed within the virtual structure only in a determined configuration, regardless of their overall orientation and position within the virtual structure. 8. A computer-implemented method according to claim 2, wherein the scan data represents a point cloud of points on the surface of the block; and wherein the virtual block is generated by determining localized peaks in density of proximal points, each proximal point representing the point where a plane defined by three points in the point cloud is closest to a predetermined point relative to the point cloud. 9. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the scan data representing each block is processed, and build data is output, before the scan data representing a further block is processed. 10. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein scan data representing a plurality of blocks is processed before build data is output. 11. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the processing includes: determining a two-dimensional surface array of a location of the structure in which a block is to be fitted; determining two dimensional arrays of sides of at least one scanned block; and determining a coefficient of correlation between the surface array and a block array for multiple positions of the block, wherein the predetermined criterion includes a minimum coefficient of correlation between the surface array and block array. 12. A computer-implemented method according to claim 11, wherein the two-dimensional surface array is determined from block arrays of already positioned blocks. 13. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1 further including placing the at least one positioned scanned block in the structure according to the build data. 14. A computer-implemented method according to claim 13, wherein the top surface of each of the top layer of blocks placed in the structure is scanned after completion of placing a predetermined number of blocks into the structure. 15. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein the blocks of building material are rocks. 16. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein the structure is a wall. 17. A computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one predetermined criterion is structural stability of the structure without requiring external support. 18. A computer readable storage medium carrying processor executable code containing instructions to control a processor to carry out the computer-implemented method of claim 1. 19. A system including: a storage component storing processor executable code containing instructions to control a processor to carry out the computer-implemented method of claim 1; and a processor to carry out the instructions stored on the storage component. 20. A computer-implemented method of constructing a structure, including: scanning into a computer memory a plurality of irregularly or randomly shaped blocks of building material, the blocks having no pre-existing required arrangement, to obtain scan data in a computer memory representing the respective size and shape of each of the blocks; uniquely identifying each scanned block and associating each scanned block with the corresponding scan data using a computer processor; determining a virtual structure, representing the size and shape of the structure to be constructed using a computer processor; processing with a computer processor, the scan data according to at least one predetermined criterion to choose at least one scanned block and determine a desired orientation and position of the at least one scanned block with the virtual structure; and outputting build data to an output device representing instructions regarding the desired position of the at least one positioned scanned block in the structure, wherein the at least one predetermined criterion includes a predetermined maximum separation of any part of two adjacent block surfaces. 21. A computer-implemented method of constructing a structure, including: scanning into a computer memory a plurality of irregularly or randomly shaped blocks of building material, the blocks having no pre-existing required arrangement, to obtain scan data in a computer memory representing the respective size and shape of each of the blocks; uniquely identifying each scanned block and associating each scanned block with the corresponding scan data using a computer processor; determining a virtual structure, representing the size and shape of the structure to be constructed using a computer processor; processing with a computer processor, the scan data according to at least one predetermined criterion to choose at least one scanned block and determine a desired orientation and position of the at least one scanned block within the virtual structure; and outputting to an output device build data representing instructions regarding the desired position of the at least one positioned scanned block in the structure, wherein the at least one predetermined criterion includes a predetermined maximum deviation between one side of the virtual structure and an adjacent surface of each of the blocks. 