A mobile robotic unit features a main body, a plurality of legs for supporting the main body on and moving the main body in forward and reverse directions about a base surface, and a drive assembly. According to an exemplary embodiment each leg includes a respective pivotal hip joint, a pivotal knee joint, and a wheeled foot adapted to roll along the base surface. Also according to an exemplary embodiments the drive assembly includes a motor operatively associated with the hip and knee joints and the wheeled foot for independently driving pivotal movement of the hip joint and the knee joint and rolling motion of the wheeled foot. The hip joint may include a ball-and-socket-type joint interconnecting top portion of the leg to the main body, such that the hip joint is adapted to pivot said leg in a direction transverse to a forward-and-reverse direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robotic unit, the mobile robotic unit comprising: a main body; a plurality of legs for supporting the main body on and moving the main body in forward and reverse directions about a base surface, each leg including a respective pivotal hip joint, a pivotal knee joint, and a wheeled foot adapted to roll along the base surface; a drive assembly comprising a motor operatively associated with the hip and knee joints and the wheeled foot for independently driving pivotal movement of the hip joint and the knee joint and rolling motion of the wheeled foot, and a plurality of swivel shafts; and a swivel assembly engaging the plurality of swivel shafts and comprising a fixable element securable relative to the main body, the swivel assembly adapted to cooperate with the swivel shafts to pivot the drive assembly with at least two degrees of freedom relative to the main body, wherein the swivel shafts comprise pinions and the swivel assembly comprises racks which cooperate with the pinions. 2. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 1, wherein the hip joint and the pivotal knee joint are simultaneously yet independently drivable by the motor to create forward and reverse walking motions. 3. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 1, wherein the drive assembly further comprises a plurality of drive shafts for imparting driving pivotal movement to the hip joint, pivotal movement the knee joint, and rolling motion to the wheeled foot, respectively. 4. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 3, wherein at least one of the drive shafts is configured to form a ball member of a ball-and-socket joint about which the leg may move relative to the main body with at least two degrees of freedom of movement. 5. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 3, wherein the drive shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another. 6. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 1, further comprising a geared drive system for permitting the motor to drive the pivoting movement of the knee joint and the rolling motion of the wheeled foot. 7. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 1, wherein the swivel shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another. 8. A mobile robotic unit, comprising: a main body; a plurality of legs for supporting the main body on and moving the main body in forward and reverse directions about a base surface, each leg including a respective pivotal hip joint, a pivotal knee joint, and a wheeled foot adapted to roll along the base surface; a drive assembly comprising a motor operatively associated with swivel shafts for pivoting the leg with at least two degrees of freedom relative to the main body to permit swiveling movement of the leg; and a swivel assembly secured to the main body, the swivel assembly adapted to cooperate with the swivel shafts to pivot the leg with at least two degrees of freedom relative to the main body, wherein the swivel shafts comprise pinions and the swivel assembly comprises racks which cooperate with the pinions. 9. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 8, wherein the swivel shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another. 10. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 8, wherein the drive assembly further comprises a plurality of drive shafts extending from the motor in an opposite direction relative to the swivel shafts. 11. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 10, wherein at least one of the drive shafts is configured to form a ball member of a ball-and-socket joint about which the leg may move relative to the main body with at least two degrees of freedom of movement. 12. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 8, wherein the swivel shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another. 13. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 10, wherein at least one of the drive shafts is configured to form a ball member of a ball-and-socket joint about which the leg may move relative to the main body with at least two degrees of freedom of movement. 14. A mobile robotic unit, the mobile robotic unit comprising: a main body; a plurality of legs for supporting the main body on and moving the main body in forward and reverse directions about a base surface, each leg including a respective pivotal hip joint, a pivotal knee joint, and a wheeled foot adapted to roll along the base surface; a swivel assembly engaging the plurality of swivel shafts and secured to the main body; and a drive assembly comprising a motor, a plurality of drive shafts, and a plurality of swivel shafts adapted to cooperate with the swivel assembly; said motor being operatively associated with the drive shafts for independently driving pivotal movement of the hip joint and the knee joint with first and second degrees of freedom and rolling motion of the wheeled foot with a third degree of freedom; and said motor being operatively associated with the swivel shafts to pivot the leg with fourth and fifth degrees of freedom to permit swiveling movement of the leg. 15. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 14, wherein the swivel shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another. 16. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 14, wherein the drive shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another. 17. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 14, wherein: the swivel shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another; and the drive shafts are concentrically arranged relative to one another and diametrically oppose the swivel shafts on opposite sides of the motor. 18. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 14, wherein the swivel shafts comprise pinions and the swivel assembly comprises racks which cooperate with the pinions. 19. The mobile robotic unit according to claim 14, wherein at least one of the drive shafts is configured to form a ball member of a ball-and-socket joint about which the leg may move relative to the main body with at least two degrees of freedom of movement. 20. A mobile robotic unit, comprising: a main body; a plurality of legs for supporting the main body on and moving the main body in forward and reverse directions about a base surface, each leg including a respective pivotal hip joint, a pivotal knee joint, and a wheeled foot adapted to roll along the base surface; and a drive assembly comprising a motor operatively associated with swivel shafts for pivoting the leg with at least two degrees of freedom relative to the main body to permit swiveling movement of the leg, wherein the drive assembly further comprises a plurality of drive shafts extending from the motor in an opposite direction relative to the swivel. 