Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of PTP1B. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding PTP1B. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of PTP1B expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of PTP1B are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 20 linked nucleosides having at least an eight (8) contiguous nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 315, wherein said compound has 100% complementarity within Exon 10 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding human PTP1B (SEQ ID NO: 243). 2. The compound of claim 1 wherein the compound is a RNA oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 1 further comprising at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 1 further comprising at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 1 further comprising at least one modified nucleobase. 7. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is chimeric. 8. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, enhancer or excipient. 9. A method of inhibiting the expression of PTP1B in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of PTP1B is inhibited. 10. The compound of claim 5, wherein at least one modified sugar comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl. 11. The compound of claim 6, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 12. The compound of claim 1, comprising a modified oligonucleotide 20 linked nucleotides in length, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 13. The compound of claim 12, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; wherein each cytidine residue of the modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytidine, and wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage. 