The invention provides methods and devices for detecting the presence of one or more target analytes in a sample employing a channel having affixed therein one or more binding partners for each target analyte. Assays are carried out by transporting the sample through the channel to each successive binding partner so that target analyte present in said sample binds to the corresponding binding partner. The sample is then transported beyond the binding partner(s), followed by detection of any target analyte bound to each binding partner. In one embodiment, binding efficiency is increased by the use of segmented transport, wherein a first bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample precedes the sample during transport and a second bolus or bubble of a fluid that is immiscible with the sample follows the sample. Many configurations are possible for the device of the invention. A preferred device includes: a substrate with a channel formed in its surface, and a cover element that overlies and seals the channel. Binding partner(s) are affixed to the surface of the cover element facing the channel lumen.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of producing an array of binding partners, comprising: introducing a bolus of a first binding partner into a channel; introducing a bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid into said channel after said first binding partner; introducing a bolus of a second binding partner into said channel after said immiscible fluid, wherein said channel is a loading tube with a hydrophobic lumenal surface and each binding partner bolus is encapsulated in oil, additionally comprising: inserting said loading tube into an assay tube; transferring said first and second binding partners, separated by said bolus or bubble of immiscible fluid, into said assay tube; affixing said first and second binding partners to a lumenal surface of said assay tube at distinct locations; and withdrawing said loading tube from said assay tube, thereby producing an array of binding partners. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said assay tube has a cross-sectional diameter of about 100 .mu.m or less. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said first binding partner is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a binding protein, and a nucleic acid. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said channel is molded in a polymeric material. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said polymeric material is a polydimethylsiloxane. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least about 100 different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations of said assay tube. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein a cover element overlies and seals said channel and has a first surface facing the channel lumen. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said first surface of said cover element is hydrophilic. 9. A method of producing an array of binding partners, comprising: introducing a bolus of a first binding partner into a loading tube; introducing a first bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid into said loading tube after said first binding partner; introducing a first bolus of a cross linking reagent into said loading tube after said first bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid; inserting the loading tube into a larger diameter assay tube, wherein the first bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid is too small to span the larger diameter of the assay tube, thereby allowing for mixing of the first binding partner and the cross linking reagent; affixing the first binding partner to the assay tube; introducing a second bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid into said loading tube; introducing a bolus of a second binding partner into said loading tube; introducing a third bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid into said loading tube after said second binding partner; introducing a second bolus of a cross linking reagent into said tube after said third bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid; inserting the loading tube into the larger diameter assay tube, wherein the third bolus or bubble of an immiscible fluid is too small to span the larger diameter of the assay tube, thereby allowing for mixing of the second binding partner and the cross linking reagent; and affixing the second binding partner to the assay tube, thereby producing the array of binding partners. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first and second binding partners are affixed to the assay tube at distinct locations. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein said assay tube has a cross-sectional diameter of about 100 .mu.m or less. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein said first binding partner is selected from the group consisting of an antibody, a binding protein, and a nucleic acid. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein said assay tube is molded in a polymeric material. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said polymeric material is a polydimethylsiloxane. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein at least about 100 different binding partners are affixed to distinct locations of said assay tube. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein a cover element overlies and seals said assay tube and has a first surface facing the assay tube lumen. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said first surface of said cover element is hydrophilic. 