Systems and methods for branding medication are provided, including, a first capper system that caps a first medication container with a first cap of a first branding including first identification of a third party supplier of one of the prescription and medication order; a second capper system that caps a second medication container with a second cap of a second branding including second identification of another third party supplier of the one of the prescription and medication order; a transport system that transports the first and second medication containers; and a control system that controls the transport system to transport the first and second medication containers based on customer information, and controls the one of the first capper system and the second capper system to cap the first and second medication containers with one of the first and second caps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for branding at least one medication container associated with at least one of a prescription and medication order comprising: transporting at least one first medication container and second medication container to one of a first capper system and a second capper system based on customer information associated with the at least one first and second medication containers; and capping at least one of the at least one first and second medication containers with one of a first cap with first branding and a second cap with second branding based on the customer information. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the customer information corresponds with medication containers based on their location in a container carrier. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein branding comprises branding information representing a health care entity. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein branding information comprises at least one of a logo, graphics, artwork and text related to the health care entity. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the medication container comprises at least one of a bottle and a package, and wherein the cap comprises at least one of a cover, lid, top, plug, stopper, seal and a closure. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by a control system, based on the customer information associated with the at least one first and second medication containers, at least one of: which of the first capper system and the second capper system to transport the at least one first medication container and second medication container to; which of the first branding and the second branding to print on the at least one first cap and the at least one second cap by the one of the first capper system and the second capper system; and which of the one of the first cap with first branding and the second cap with second branding to cap the at least one of the at least one first and second medication containers with; and controlling said transporting and said capping by said control system responsive to said determining. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein transporting of the at least one first medication container and second medication container comprises the use of a transport system having at least one of a conveyor and a container carrier. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising verifying that the correct cap is secured to the at least one of the at least one first and second medication containers by employing at least one of a bar code system, a Radio Frequency Identification system, and a vision system, to confirm the correct capping based on the customer information associated with the at least one first and second medication containers. 9. A method for branding at least one medication container associated with at least one of a prescription and medication order comprising: transporting at least one first medication container and second medication container to a capper system; and capping at least one of the first and second medication containers with one of a first cap of first branding and a second cap of second branding based on customer information associated with the at least one first and second medication containers, wherein the first medication container and second medication container are capped with caps of different branding. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the customer information corresponds with medication containers based on their location in a container carrier. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein branding comprises branding information representing a health care entity. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein branding information comprises at least one of a logo, graphics, artwork and text related to the health care entity. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the medication container comprises at least one of a bottle and a package, and wherein the cap comprises at least one of a cover, lid, top, plug, stopper, seal and a closure. 14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, by a control system, based on the customer information associated with the at least one first and second medication containers, at least one of: whether to transport the at least one first medication container and second medication container to the capper system; which of the first branding and the second branding to print on the at least one first cap and the at least one second cap by the capper system; and which of the one of the first cap with first branding and the second cap with second branding to cap the at least one of the at least one first and second medication containers with; and controlling said transporting and said capping by said control system responsive to said determining. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein transporting of the at least one first medication container and second medication container comprises the use of a transport system having at least one of a conveyor and a container carrier. 16. The method of claim 9, further comprising verifying that the correct cap is secured to the at least one of the at least one first and second medication containers by employing at least one of a bar code system, a Radio Frequency Identification system, and a vision system, to confirm the correct capping based on the customer information associated with the at least one first and second medication containers. 17. A method for branding at least one medication container associated with at least one of a prescription and medication order comprising: determining, by a control system, based on customer information associated with at least one medication container, at least one of: whether to transport the at least one medication container to a capper system; which of a first branding and a second branding to print on at least one cap of a plurality of caps, if any, by the capper system; and which of one of a cap of first branding, a cap of second branding, and an unbranded cap to cap the at least one medication container with; transporting, responsive to said determining by the control system, the at least one medication container to the capper system; and capping, responsive to said determining by the control system, the at least one medication container with one of the cap of first branding, the cap of second branding, and the unbranded cap. 