A serpentine robotic crawler capable of multiple movement moves is disclosed. The serpentine robotic crawler includes a plurality of frame units, coupled together by at least one actuated linkage. Each frame unit includes a continuous track, enabling forward movement of the serpentine robotic crawler. The at least one actuated linkage has at least 7 degrees of movement freedom, enabling the serpentine robotic crawler to adopt a variety of poses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A serpentine robotic crawler comprising: a first frame having a first continuous track rotatably supported by the first frame; a second frame having a second continuous track rotatably supported by the second frame; and a linkage arm coupling the first and second frames together in tandem and being actuated about at least one lateral axis and at least two longitudinal axes, which longitudinal axes are oriented by the actuated bending movement of the linkage arm about the at least one lateral axis. 2. The robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the linkage arm comprises: a first actuated rotary joint operable with the first frame to provide a first longitudinal axis; a second actuated rotary joint operable with the second frame to provide a second longitudinal axis; an actuated bending joint operable between each of the first and second rotary joints to provide controlled bending about the lateral axis. 3. The robotic crawler of claim 2, wherein the linkage arm further comprises at least one additional actuated bending joint operable with each of the first and second frames, respectively, with each additional bending joint providing controlled bending about an additional lateral axis. 4. The robotic crawler of claim 2, wherein the linkage arm further comprises an additional pair of actuated bending joints positioned between the first and second actuated rotary joints and each of the first and second frames, respectively, with each additional bending joint providing controlled bending about an additional lateral axis. 5. The robotic crawler of claim 4, wherein the lateral axes of each additional pair of actuated bending joints are at substantially right angles to each other. 6. The robotic crawler of claim 2, wherein each of the first and second frames further comprises a drive coupled to the continuous track. 7. The robotic crawler of claim 6, further comprising a control subsystem in communication with each drive and with each rotary and bending joint in the linkage arm and configured to selectively actuate each drive, rotary joint and bending joint to control the pose of robotic crawler. 8. A serpentine robotic crawler comprising: at least two frame units each having a continuous track rotatably supported thereon; and at least one multi-degree of freedom actuated linkage arm coupled between the frame units, the linkage arm comprising: at least three actuated bending joints, each providing bending about a lateral axis; and at least two actuated rotary joints, each providing rotation about a longitudinal axis, wherein the linkage arm comprises a series-coupled combination of at least five actuated joints. 9. The robotic crawler of claim 8, wherein the linkage arm further comprises at least one additional actuated bending joint operable with each of the frame units, respectively, with each additional bending joint providing controlled bending about an additional lateral axis. 10. A serpentine robotic crawler comprising: a first frame having a first continuous track rotatably supported by the first frame; a first actuated linkage coupled to the first frame wherein the first actuated linkage provides rotational movement about a longitudinal axis; an elbow-like actuated joint coupled to the first actuated linkage wherein the elbow-like actuated joint provides bending movement about a lateral axis; a second actuated linkage coupled to the elbow-like actuated joint wherein the second actuated linkage provides rotational movement about a longitudinal axis; and a second frame coupled to the second actuated linkage and having a second continuous track rotatably supported by the second frame. 11. The robotic crawler of claim 10, further comprising at least one additional elbow-like actuated joint coupled between each of the first and second actuated linkages and the first and second frames, wherein each additional elbow-like joint provides bending movement about an additional lateral axis. 12. A method of operating a serpentine robotic crawler comprising: obtaining a first frame and a second frame, each frame having a drivable continuous track, the first and second frames being coupled together with an actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm having a series-coupled combination of actuated joints, the linkage arm comprising: at least two actuated rotary joints, each providing rotation of one of the first and second frames about a longitudinal axis; and at least one actuated bending joint that provides bending about a lateral axis; and articulating the actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage to establish a desired pose for the serpentine robotic crawler, wherein the longitudinal axes are oriented by the actuated manipulation of the linkage arm about the lateral axis. 13. The method of claim 12, further providing at least one additional actuated bending joint operable with each of the first and second frames, respectively, with each additional bending joint providing controlled bending about an additional lateral axis. 14. A method of operating a serpentine robotic crawler comprising: providing a first frame and a second frame, each frame having a drivable continuous track; coupling the first frame to the second frame with an actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm that actuates about at least one lateral axis and at least two longitudinal axes, wherein the actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm comprises a series-coupled combination of at least seven actuated joints to form the serpentine robotic crawler; and articulating the actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm to establish a desired pose for the serpentine robotic crawler. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising coordinating drive operation of the drivable continuous tracks with articulation of the actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm to further control the pose of the serpentine robotic crawler. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising positioning the first frame and the second frame in a tank-like configuration where the first frame and the second frame are side-by-side and extend in a same direction relative to the actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising positioning the first frame and the second frame in a train-like configuration where the first frame and the second frame are aligned end to end. 18. The method of claim 15 further comprising positioning the first frame and the second frame in a outside-climbing configuration where the first frame and the second frame are oriented with exposed portions of the continuous tracks facing toward each other and in contact with opposite outer surfaces of a structure to be climbed. 19. The method of claim 15 further comprising positioning the first frame and the second frame in an inside-climbing configuration where the first frame and the second frame are oriented with exposed portions of the continuous tracks facing away from each other and in contact with opposite inner surfaces of a structure to be climbed. 20. The method of claim 15 further comprising positioning the first frame and the second frame in a zag configuration where the first frame and the second frame are side-by-side and extend in opposite directions relative to the actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm. 