A method for determining of spraying parameters for controlling a painting appliance which sprays and is moved over an area to be painted, in particular a robot with a painting application. A known spraying map is produced, using known spraying parameters and paint amount, for a predetermined movement speed of the painting appliance, and a paint amount is matched to a new movement speed in comparison to the predetermined movement speed. Furthermore, new spraying parameters are calculated for the adapted paint amount, while maintaining a spraying map which is similar to the known spraying map.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Method for determining of spraying parameters for controlling a painting appliance which uses spraying means and is moved over an area to be painted, in particular a robot with a painting application, with a known spraying map being provided, with known spraying parameters and paint amounts for a predetermined movement speed of the painting appliance, with a paint amount being matched to a new movement speed in comparison to the predetermined movement speed, and with new spraying parameters being calculated for the adapted paint amount, while maintaining a spraying map which is similar to the known spraying map. 2. Method according to claim 1, wherein the movement speed or the change in speed is provided as a preset value for an actual speed for a robot controller. 3. Method according to claim 2, wherein a provisional spraying map is calculated on the basis of the known spraying map using the known spraying parameters and a new paint amount, in that the known spraying parameters are varied in order to obtain changed spraying parameters which result in a further spraying map, in that the changed spraying parameters are varied until the further spraying map is similar to the known spraying map within a similarity criterion, and in that the changed spraying parameters which are similar to the known spraying map are provided as new spraying parameters. 4. Method according to claim 1, wherein a provisional spraying map is calculated on the basis of the known spraying map using the known spraying parameters and a new paint amount, in that the known spraying parameters are varied in order to obtain changed spraying parameters which result in a further spraying map, in that the changed spraying parameters are varied until the further spraying map is similar to the known spraying map within a similarity criterion, and in that the changed spraying parameters which are similar to the known spraying map are provided as new spraying parameters. 5. Method according to claim 4, wherein the spraying parameters are suitable for controlling a plurality of air flows and influence the spraying behaviour of the painting appliance. 6. Method according to claim 1, wherein the spraying parameters are suitable for controlling a plurality of air flows and influence the spraying behaviour of the painting appliance. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the known spraying parameters are used in the event of any discrepancies between the new movement speed and the predetermined movement speed which result in a provisional spraying map which is similar within the similarity criterion. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the known spraying parameters are used in the event of any discrepancies between the new movement speed and the predetermined movement speed which result in a provisional spraying map which is similar within the similarity criterion. 9. Method according to claim 8, wherein the new spraying parameters are calculated during operation of the painting appliance and before the change to the predetermined movement speed. 10. Method according to claim 8, wherein the new spraying parameters are calculated before operation of the painting appliance. 11. Method according to claim 1, wherein the new spraying parameters are calculated during operation of the painting appliance and before the change to the predetermined movement speed. 12. Method according to claim 1, wherein the new spraying parameters are calculated before operation of the painting appliance. 13. Method according to claim 12, wherein the expected coating thickness distribution after a change is taken into account in the calculation of the new spraying parameters. 14. Method according to claim 1, wherein the expected coating thickness distribution after a change is taken into account in the calculation of the new spraying parameters. 15. Method according to claim 14, wherein the calculations are carried out by the robot controller or by a data processing installation which interacts with the robot controller. 16. Method according to claim 1, wherein the calculations are carried out by the robot controller or by a data processing installation which interacts with the robot controller. 17. Method according to claim 16, wherein new spraying parameters are in each case determined and stored for a number of speed ranges or speeds. 18. Method according to claim 1, wherein new spraying parameters are in each case determined and stored for a number of speed ranges or speeds. 19. A method for robotic control of a spray appliance which uses spraying means for a spraying application, comprising: providing a known spraying map; providing known spraying parameters and spray amounts for a predetermined movement speed of the spray appliance; matching a variable spray amount to a varying movement speed in comparison to the predetermined movement speed; and calculating at least one variable spraying parameter based on the variable spray amount, while maintaining a mapped spraying path based on the known spraying map. 