One embodiment of the invention includes product comprising an elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive with a pull-off strength of 1-200 N/cm.sup.2 from a substrate and reversibly detached with a peel-off force less than 1 N/cm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition comprising: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; at least one of an epoxy extender having, one epoxide group, or a diluent comprising a monoamine or a mono-carboxylic acid; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent comprising at least one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride; and wherein the components are present in an amount sufficient to provide, upon curing of the composition, an elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive having a glass transition temperature below room temperature and having a pull-off strength of 1-200 N/cm.sup.2 from a substrate; and when the crosslinking comprises a multi-amine the total number of epoxy groups to amine groups ranges from 1.89-2.12. 2. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 comprising an epoxy extender having one epoxide group. 3. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 comprising a diluent, wherein the diluent is a monoamine or a mono-carboxylic acid. 4. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 wherein the elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive has a pull-off strength of 10-100 N/cm.sup.2 from a substrate. 5. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 wherein the elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive is capable of adhering to a substrate with a peel-off force less than 1 N/cm from the substrate. 6. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 comprising an aliphatic diepoxy and a diamine. 7. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 6 further comprising an aromatic diepoxy. 8. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 wherein the aromatic epoxy is the diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A epoxy monomer with an epoxy equivalent weight of 180. 9. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 wherein the aliphatic epoxy is NGDE. 10. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 wherein the multi-amine is poly(propylene glycol)bis(2-aminopropyl)ether with an average molecular weight of 230. 11. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 3 comprising an aromatic diepoxy, a diamine, and an aliphatic monoamine. 12. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition as set forth in claim 1 wherein the flexible epoxy has a molecular weight equal to or greater than 216. 13. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive comprising: the reaction product of at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy, and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; said dry adhesive being cured at about 100.degree. C. and post-cured at about 130.degree. C.; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride; and wherein the elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive has a glass transition temperature below room temperature and has a pull-off strength of 1-200 N/cm.sup.2 from a substrate; and when the crosslinking comprises a multi-amine the total number of amine groups to epoxy groups ranges from 1.89-2.12. 14. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive as set forth in claim 13 further comprising the reaction product of an epoxy extender having one epoxide group. 15. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive as set forth in claim 13 further comprising the reaction product of a diluent, wherein the diluent is a monoamine or a mono-carboxylic acid. 16. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive composition comprising: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent comprising a multi-amine, and wherein the total number of epoxy groups to amine groups ranges from 1.89-2.12, and wherein the components are present in an amount sufficient to provide, upon curing of the composition at least 100.degree. C., an elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive having a glass transition temperature below room temperature and having a pull-off strength of 1-200 N/cm.sup.2 from a substrate. 17. An elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive comprising: the reaction product of at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy, and at least one of a crosslinking agent and a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the catalytical curing agent comprises a tertiary amine, amine salt, boron trifluoride complex, or amine borate, and the crosslinking agent comprises a multi-amine, and wherein the total number of epoxy groups is about twice the total number of amine groups; and wherein the elastomeric epoxy dry adhesive has a glass transition temperature below room temperature and has a pull-off strength of 1-200 N/cm.sup.2 from a substrate. 