A system and method for analyzing the motions of an object based on the silhouettes of the object are provided. The system includes a foreground detector, a contour extractor, a model generator, a corner histogram generator, and a value of similarity measuring unit. The foreground detector detects a moving foreground object from an input image. The contour extractor extracts silhouette contour of the detected foreground object, and the model generator generates mean value histogram models as references to determine motions of the object. The corner histogram generator generates corner histograms of hierarchical multiband in the extracted contour signal, and the value of similarity measuring unit calculates a value of similarity between the generated corner histogram of a current frame and the average model histogram in a histogram unit, measures a value making a value of similarity with the calculated current frame histogram maximum, and determines the measured value as a posture of the object in the current frame.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for analyzing motions of an object comprising: a foreground detector for detecting a moving foreground object from an input image except a background image; a contour extractor for extracting silhouette contour of the detected foreground object; a model generator for generating mean value histogram models as references to determine motions of the object from an silhouette image inputted in real time; a corner histogram generator for generating corner histograms for corners of hierarchical multiband in the extracted contour signal; and a value of similarity measuring unit for calculating a value of similarity between the generated corner histogram of a current frame and the average model histogram in a histogram unit, measuring a value making a value of similarity with the calculated current frame histogram maximum, and determining the measured value as a posture of the object in the current frame. 2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a filter for removing noise images from the foreground object image detected from the foreground detector and outputting the noise removed image to the contour extractor. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the filter is a low band pass filter or a morphological filter. 4. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a background model manager disposed at the front of the foreground detector for generating a Gaussian mixture background for input image frames, wherein the foreground detector detects the foreground object making motions at a still background using differences between a background of the Gaussian mixture background model outputted from the background model manager and real-time input video frame. 5. The system according to claim 4, further comprising an image initializing unit for initializing the video frames for generating the Gaussian mixture background and outputting the initialized video frame to the background model manager. 6. The system according to claim 5, further comprising a camera unit for capturing video stream in real time and outputting the captured video stream to the image initializing unit and the foreground detector. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the corner points include at least one of a head, a hand, a leg, an armpit, a shoulder, and a knee of the object. 8. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a storing unit for storing average histogram models of each posture of the object, which are generated from the model generator. 9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the postures of the object include at least one of a posture of standing up, a posture of sitting down, and a posture of laying down. 10. The system according to claim 8, wherein the model generator includes: a silhouette contour collector for collecting videos of postures of the object, and a front view, a left side view, a right side view, and a rear view of each of the postures; and an mean value calculator for calculating mean values of the front view, the left side view, the right side view, and the rear view of each of the postures of the object by accumulating the collected videos, and storing the calculated mean values in the storing unit. 11. The system according to claim 8, wherein the corner histogram generator includes: a centroid point calculator for calculating a weight centroid point of a silhouette in a silhouette object contour image inputted from the contour extractor; an Euclidean distance calculator for calculating an Euclidean distance from the weight centroid point to predetermined points along the contour from a predetermined start point; a multiband wavelet filter for dividing the Euclidean distance information into multi sub-band; and a multiband corner histogram generator for generating corner histograms by extracting corners with positions thereof not varied form the divided multi sub-band signals. 12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the multiband wavelet filter divides the Euclidean distance information into eight multi sub-bands. 13. A method for analyzing motions of an object based on a silhouette of the object in video streams, comprising: collecting video streams in real time; detecting foreground objects making motions at a still background from the collected video stream; filtering the detected foreground object image to remove noise images therefrom; extracting contours of a silhouette from the noise removed object silhouette image; generating a mean value histogram model as a reference to determine motions of the object from the real time input silhouette image; generating a corner histogram in consideration of multiband feature of corner points from the extracted contour signal; calculating a value of similarity between the generated corner histogram of a current frame and the average model histogram, and measuring a value making a value of similarity to the calculated histogram of a current frame maximum; and determining the histogram of the measured maximum value of similarity as a current frame posture of the object. 14. The object motion analysis method according to claim 13, wherein the step of generating the average histogram model includes: collecting silhouette contour image information of each posture of the object; generating the corner histogram for the collected image information; accumulating videos of the corner histograms to calculate an mean value of each posture; calculating an mean value of each posture from the accumulated corner histograms; and storing the calculated mean value of each posture. 15. The object motion analysis method according to claim 13, wherein the postures of the object includes at least one of a posture of standing up, a posture of sitting down, and a posture of laying down of the object. 16. The object motion analysis method according to claim 15, wherein the posture of the object further includes at least one of a front view, a left side view, a right side view, and a rear view of each of the postures of the object. 17. The object motion analysis method according to claim 13, wherein the corners includes at least one of a head, a hand, a leg, an armpit, a shoulder, and a knee. 18. The object motion analysis method according to claim 13, wherein the step of generating the corner histogram includes: calculating a weight centroid point of the silhouette object contour image; calculating Euclidean distances from the weight centroid point to predetermined points on the contour from a predetermined start point along the entire contour; dividing the Euclidean distance signal into multi sub-bands through multiband wavelet filtering; and generating the corner histogram by extracting corners having a position not varied up to a scale of 2.sup.3 for the filtered multiple band signals. 