An x-ray device is provided. The x-ray device includes a C-arm, on which a radiographic source and a heat pump are arranged. At least sections of the C-arm are hollow, such that at least sections of the radiographic source and the heat pump are arranged inside the C-arm.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An x-ray device comprising: a radiographic source; a heat pump; and a C-arm having a C-arm end surface and a hollow section, the radiographic source and the heat pump being arranged at least partly in the interior of the hollow section of the C-arm, wherein the radiographic source and the heat pump are inserted into a support frame forming at least a part of the C-arm, the support frame having a frame end surface facing the C-arm end surface, the frame end surface being detachably fixed to the C-arm end surface, the support frame lengthening the C-arm, and wherein the support frame includes an opening at a side of the support frame. 2. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising flange-type attachment sections that are provided on the support frame and on the C-arm, the flange-type attachment section on the support frame comprising the frame end surface, and the flange-type attachment section on the C-arm comprising the C-arm end surface, the flange-type attachment sections being used to attach the support frame to the C-arm with fastening elements. 3. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the radiographic source is attached to the support frame via an adjustable attachment that permits adjustment. 4. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 2, further comprising coolant lines routed on or in the C-arm to the heat pump, the coolant lines being operable to be connected by detachable connections provided on the heat pump, detachable connections on the coolant lines and the detachable connections on the heat pump being self-sealing, quick-release couplings. 5. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 2, further comprising an electronics unit that controls the radiographic source, the heat pump, or the radiographic source and the heat pump, the electronics unit being provided in the support frame, the electronics unit being connected detachably via one or more connections to one or more lines routed on or in the C-arm. 6. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the radiographic source is attached to the support frame via an adjustable attachment that permits adjustment. 7. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 6, further comprising flange-type attachment sections that are provided on the support frame and on the C-arm, the flange-type attachment section on the support frame comprising the frame end surface, and the flange-type attachment section on the C-arm comprising the C-arm end surface, the flange-type attachment sections being used to attach the support frame to the C-arm with fastening elements. 8. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 6, further comprising coolant lines routed on or in the C-arm to the heat pump, the coolant lines being operable to be connected by detachable connections provided on the heat pump, detachable connections on the coolant lines and the detachable connections on the heat pump being self-sealing, quick-release couplings. 9. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 6, further comprising an electronics unit that controls the radiographic source, the heat pump, or the radiographic source and the heat pump, the electronics unit being provided in the support frame, the electronics unit being connected detachably via one or more connections to one or more lines routed on or in the C-arm. 10. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising coolant lines routed on or in the C-arm to the heat pump, the coolant lines being operable to be connected by detachable connections provided on the heat pump, detachable connections on the coolant lines and the detachable connections on the heat pump being self-sealing, quick-release couplings. 11. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 10, further comprising an electronics unit that controls the radiographic source, the heat pump, or the radiographic source and the heat pump, the electronics unit being provided in the support frame, the electronics unit being connected detachably via one or more connections to one or more lines routed on or in the C-arm. 12. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an electronics unit that controls the radiographic source, the heat pump, or the radiographic source and the heat pump, the electronics unit being provided in the support frame, the electronics unit being connected detachably via one or more connections to one or more lines routed on or in the C-arm. 13. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising one or more detachably arranged cladding elements provided on the support frame. 14. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 13, wherein the one or more detachably arranged cladding elements are operable to close one or more openings in the support frame. 