A gear bearing drive provides a compact mechanism that operates as an actuator providing torque and as a joint providing support. The drive includes a gear arrangement integrating an external rotor DC motor within a sun gear. Locking surfaces maintain the components of the drive in alignment and provide support for axial loads and moments. The gear bearing drive has a variety of applications, including as a joint in robotic arms and prosthetic limbs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gear bearing drive comprising an assembly having an input stage and an output stage, the assembly comprising: a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear including a plurality of sun gear teeth extending radially outwardly and disposed circumferentially around the sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear and concentrically surrounded by the sun gear teeth, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear, and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 2. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, wherein the external rotor of the motor comprises a plurality of magnets fixed at intervals around an interior surface of the sun gear. 3. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, further comprising an encoder drive shaft mounted to the sun gear sub-assembly for rotation therewith. 4. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, wherein the motor comprises a DC motor. 5. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, wherein the sun gear sub-assembly further comprises a sun gear roller bearing surface on an input stage of the gear bearing drive facing radially outwardly, and the pinion sub-assemblies further comprise a pinion roller surface facing radially inwardly and in bearing engagement against the radially outward sun gear roller bearing surface, to transfer radial forces. 6. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, wherein the sun gear sub-assembly further comprises a sun gear roller bearing surface on an input stage of the gear bearing drive facing radially outwardly, and the sun gear includes a plurality of sun gear teeth extending radially from the sun gear at a determined pitch radius equal to the radius of the sun gear roller bearing surface. 7. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, wherein the sun gear includes a plurality of sun gear teeth extending radially from the sun gear, and ends of the sun gear teeth are chamfered from the tips to the roots to remove loads from the tips. 8. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, wherein the input pinion gear and the output pinion gear include a plurality of gear teeth extending radially, and ends of the gear teeth are chamfered from the tips to the roots to remove loads from the tips. 9. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, further comprising an output locking ring disposed to mate the pinion sub-assemblies to the output ring gear. 10. The gear bearing drive of claim 1, further comprising an input ring gear disposed to mesh with the input pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 11. The gear bearing drive of claim 10, further comprising an input locking ring disposed to mate the pinion sub-assemblies to the input ring gear. 12. The gear bearing drive of claim 10, further comprising an output locking ring and an input locking ring disposed to mate the pinion sub-assemblies to the output ring gear and the input ring gear. 13. A gear bearing drive comprising an assembly having an input stage and an output stage, the assembly comprising: a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear; axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun gear sub-assembly disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween; and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 14. The gear bearing drive of claim 13, further comprising axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the output ring gear disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween. 15. The gear bearing drive of claim 13, further comprising a sun roller sub-assembly disposed at the output stage of the assembly, and axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun roller sub-assembly disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween. 16. The gear bearing drive of claim 13, further comprising an input ring gear disposed to mesh with the input pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly, and axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the input ring gear disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween. 17. A gear bearing drive comprising an assembly having an input stage and an output stage, the assembly comprising: a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear, radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun gear sub-assembly disposed in rolling bearing contact; and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 18. The gear bearing drive of claim 17, further comprising an output locking ring disposed at the output stage of the assembly to lock the assembly together, and radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the output locking ring disposed in rolling bearing contact. 19. The gear bearing drive of claim 17, further comprising a sun roller sub-assembly disposed at the output stage of the assembly, and radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun roller sub-assembly disposed in rolling bearing contact. 20. The gear bearing drive of claim 17, further comprising: an input ring gear disposed to mesh with the input pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly; an input locking ring disposed at the input stage of the assembly to lock the assembly together; and radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the input locking ring disposed in rolling bearing contact. 21. A gear bearing drive comprising an assembly having an input stage and an output stage, the assembly comprising: a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear; wherein the sun gear sub-assembly further comprises a locking groove defining axially facing sun gear locking surfaces, and the pinion sub-assemblies each further comprises an extended roller defining mating axial locking surfaces in engagement with the sun gear locking surfaces to transfer axial forces; and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 22. gear bearing drive comprising an assembly having an input stage and an output stage, the assembly comprising: a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear; a sun roller sub-assembly disposed at the output stage of the assembly, the sun roller sub-assembly comprising a sun roller bearing surface facing radially outwardly, and the pinion sub-assemblies further comprise a pinion roller surface facing radially inwardly and in bearing engagement against the radially outward sun roller bearing surface, to transfer radial forces; and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 23. The gear bearing drive of claim 22, wherein the sun roller sub-assembly further includes a sun roller locking surface facing axially from the sun gear and a sun roller locking ring comprising a sun roller locking surface facing axially toward the sun gear; and the pinion sub-assemblies each further comprises an extended roller defining mating axial locking surfaces in engagement with the sun roller locking surfaces to transfer axial forces. 24. A gear bearing drive comprising an assembly having an input stage and an output stage, the assembly comprising: a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear; a sun roller sub-assembly disposed on the output stage of the assembly, the sun roller sub-assembly comprising a sun roller locking ring comprising a sun roller locking surface facing axially toward the sun gear, and the pinion sub-assemblies each further comprises an extended roller defining mating axial locking surface in engagement with the sun roller locking surface to transfer axial forces; and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 25. A gear bearing drive, comprising an assembly having an input stage and an output stage, the assembly comprising: a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear; wherein each of the pinion sub-assemblies further comprise a support member, the input pinion gear and the output pinion gear supported by the support member, the support member including a roller bearing surface at the output stage in bearing engagement with a roller bearing surface on the output ring gear; and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 26. The gear bearing drive of claim 25, further comprising a sun roller sub-assembly disposed at the output stage of the assembly, the sun roller sub-assembly comprising a sun roller bearing surface facing radially outwardly, and the pinion roller bearing surface of the pinion sub-assemblies is further disposed in bearing engagement with the sun roller bearing surface. 27. A prosthetic arm incorporating a gear bearing drive according to claim 1, comprising: a limb comprising a forearm and an upper arm, a shoulder at an end of the upper arm, an elbow between the forearm and the upper arm, and a wrist at an end of the forearm; and the gear bearing drive disposed at least at one of the shoulder, the elbow, and the wrist. 28. The prosthetic arm of claim 27, further comprising a further gear bearing drive disposed at least at a second of the shoulder, elbow, and the wrist. 29. The prosthetic arm of claim 27, further comprising a gear bearing drive disposed at each of the shoulder, the elbow, and the wrist. 30. A motorized joint comprising: a gear transmission having an input stage comprising an input gear including one or more force transmitting surfaces and an output stage comprising an output gear interfacing with the input gear, and an output mating interface configured to provide a torque output to a device; and a motor comprising an external rotor and an internal stator, the external rotor disposed within an interior of the input gear of the gear transmission and concentrically surrounded by the one or more force transmitting surfaces of the input gear for driving the input gear. 31. The motorized joint of claim 30, wherein the output mating interface is configured to mate with a prosthetic arm. 32. The motorized joint of claim 30, wherein the output mating interface is configured to mate with a robotic arm. 33. The motorized joint of claim 32, wherein the gear transmission further comprises a sun gear sub-assembly comprising: a sun gear, and a motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of the sun gear, the sun gear rotatable with the external rotor; a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear sub-assembly, each pinion sub-assembly comprising an input pinion gear meshing with the sun gear and an output pinion gear, and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the output pinion gear of each pinion sub-assembly. 34. The motorized joint of claim 30, wherein the input gear comprises a sun gear, and the external rotor of the motor comprises a plurality of magnets fixed at intervals around an interior surface of the sun gear. 35. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising a sun gear sub-assembly, the sun gear sub-assembly including the input gear, and an encoder drive shaft mounted to the sun gear sub-assembly for rotation therewith. 36. The motorized joint of claim 30, wherein the motor comprises a DC motor. 37. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising a sun gear sub-assembly and a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies, and axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun gear sub-assembly disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween. 38. The motorized joint of claim 30, wherein the output gear comprises an output ring gear, and further comprising a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies, and axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the output ring gear disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween. 39. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies and a sun roller sub-assembly disposed at the output stage of the assembly, and axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun roller sub-assembly disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween. 40. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies and an input ring gear disposed to mesh with an input pinion gear of each of the plurality of pinion sub-assemblies, and axially facing mating locking surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the input ring gear disposed to transfer axial forces therebetween. 41. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising a sun gear sub-assembly and a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies, wherein radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun gear sub-assembly are disposed in rolling bearing contact. 42. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising an output locking ring disposed at the output stage of the assembly to lock the assembly together, a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies, and radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the output locking ring disposed in rolling bearing contact. 43. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising a sun roller sub-assembly disposed at the output stage of the assembly, a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies, and radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the sun roller sub-assembly disposed in rolling bearing contact. 44. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising: an input ring gear disposed to mesh with an input pinion gear of each of a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies; an input locking ring disposed at the input stage of the assembly to lock the assembly together; and radially facing bearing surfaces on the pinion sub-assemblies and the input ring gear disposed in rolling bearing contact. 45. The motorized joint of claim 30, further comprising a sun gear sub-assembly, wherein the sun gear sub-assembly further comprises a sun gear roller bearing surface on an input stage of the gear transmission facing radially outwardly, and further comprising a plurality of pinion sub-assemblies, wherein the pinion sub-assemblies further comprise a pinion roller surface facing radially inwardly and in bearing engagement against the radially outward sun gear roller bearing surface, to transfer radial forces. 46. The motorized joint of claim 30, wherein the gear transmission further comprises: a sun gear; a plurality of pinion gears disposed to interface with and revolve around the sun gear; the motor having an external rotor is disposed inside an interior region of one of the pinion gears, the pinion gear rotatable with the external rotor; and an output ring gear disposed to mesh with the pinion gears. 47. The motorized joint of claim 46, further comprising a further motor having an external rotor disposed inside an interior region of another of the pinion gears, the pinion gear rotatable with the external rotor. 