A robot structure, suited especially for minimally invasive surgery, comprises two robot elements interconnected by a hinge. Using a force transmission the movable robot element of said robot structure, notably comprising two gripping elements, can be moved. A sensor element is provided for picking up forces occurring. To reduce the influence of motional forces, said force transmission is connected with a base element of said sensor element such that motional forces transmitted by said force transmission element are supported at the base element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot structure, for minimally invasive surgery, comprising: a first robot element and a movable robot element adapted to be moved relative to the first robot element, wherein the first robot element comprising two gripping and/or cutting elements movable against each other, and said two gripping and/or cutting elements being connected to the first robot element by a hinge, a force transmission means for moving said two gripping and/or cutting elements of said movable robot element, and the force transmission means comprises at least two force transmission elements transmitting motional forces, the motional forces transmitted being directed in opposite directions towards each other, a sensor element for picking up forces and/or moments occurring at the movable robot element, said sensor element having a base element and a transducer part, wherein said force transmission means is connected to the base element of said sensor element, said base element being fixedly connected to said sensor element, wherein motional forces transmitted by said force transmission means are supported at the base element, and said hinge is connected to said transducer part of said sensor element to pick up forces and/or moments caused by contact forces at the two gripping and/or cutting elements, wherein said movable robot element comprises two gripping elements movable towards each other, wherein the gripping elements are connected to actuating elements that are configured or arranged such that the gripping forces are deflected such that they are directed in opposite directions towards each other, and wherein the actuating elements are connected directly with the force transmission elements, respectively, said actuating elements and said force transmission elements taking the form of cable controls. 2. The robot structure of claim 1, wherein the force transmission elements are connected to a guide means in order to deflect the motional forces in opposite directions. 3. The robot structure of claim 2, wherein the guide means is connected to the base element of said sensor element for support. 4. The robot structure of claim 1, wherein the actuating elements are connected with the hinge, and the deflection of the gripping forces being effected by the hinge. 