A robotic bending apparatus for bending archwires and other types of elongate, bendable medical devices into a desired configuration includes a first gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool. The first gripping tool can be either fixed with respect to a base or table for the robot or positioned at the end of robot am. The moveable gripping tool is mounted to the end of a moveable robot arm having a proximal portion also mounted to the base. The robot preferably comprises a six axis bending robot, in which the distal end of the moveable arm can move relative to the fixed gripping tool about three translational axes and three rotational axes. The gripping tools preferably incorporate force sensors which are used to determine overbends needed to get the desired final shape of the archwire. The robot may also include a resistive heating system in which current flows through the wire while the wire is held in a bent condition to heat the wire and thereby retain the bent shape of the wire. A magazine for holding a plurality of straight archwires needing to be bent and a conveyor system for receiving the wires after the bending process is complete are also described. The robot bending system is able to form archwires with any required second and third order bends quickly and with high precision. As such, it is highly suitable for use in a precision appliance-manufacturing center manufacturing a large number of archwires (or other medical devices or appliances) for a distributed base of clinics.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus for bending orthodontic appliances, comprising: a first gripping tool adapted for gripping and releasing an orthodontic appliance; a moveable robot capable of multiple axes of movement during a bending operation on the orthodontic appliance, and wherein the multiple axes of movement comprise a combination of three mutually orthogonal translation axes and a rotation axis; a second gripping tool adapted for gripping and releasing the orthodontic appliance, wherein the second gripping tool is affixed to structure in the moveable robot providing the rotation axis; and a robot control system for operating the first and second gripping tools and the moveable robot so as to place a series of precision bends and/or twists in the orthodontic appliance. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the moveable robot comprises a first segment defining a first linear translation axis, a second segment coupled to the first segment defining a second linear translation axis, and a third segment coupled to the second segment defining a third linear translation axis, wherein the first, second and third linear translation axes form said three mutually orthogonal translation axis. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the second gripping tool is mounted distal from the third segment, and wherein the second gripping tool is rotatable about at least one rotational axis and linearly translatable in an orthogonal system, in three mutually orthogonal directions relative to the first gripping tool. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first gripping tool is fixed relative to the robot. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first gripping tool is independently moveable relative to the robot. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the first gripping tool is independently moveable relative to the robot about at least one rotation axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the first gripping tool is mounted to a second robot capable of multiple axes of movement, and wherein the multiple axes of movement comprise a combination of one or more translation axes and at least one rotation axis. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating system for heating the first and second gripping tools. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second gripping tools comprise pairs of opposed gripping finger elements moveable relative to each other to thereby grip and release the orthodontic appliance. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second gripping tools incorporate sensors measuring forces imparted by the orthodontic appliance to the first and second gripping tools. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the orthodontic appliance comprises an archwire. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a bulk supply of uncut orthodontic archwire. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a supply of uncut orthodontic archwire stored on a spool. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a magazine of pre-cut orthodontic archwires. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a machine readable memory storing an input file for the robot control system, the input file comprising information as to the locations in three-dimensional space of a set of orthodontic brackets applied to the teeth of a patient in a target situation and the orientation of such brackets in the three-dimensional space. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the robot control system further comprises a machine readable memory programmed with instructions by which the robot control system determines an amount of overbend to place in the archwire and causes the robot to bend the wire in accordance with the overbend. 17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the archwire comprises a stainless steel wire. 18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the archwire is made from a shape memory alloy. 19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the archwire is made from a titanium molybdenum alloy. 20. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the archwire is made from a polymeric or plastic material. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the polymeric or plastic material is selected from the group consisting of thermoplastics, duroplastics, polyacrylic plastics, epoxy plastics and fiber reinforced composites. 22. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the wire is made from glass fiber materials. 23. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a workstation applying a mark to the archwire. 24. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a workstation for applying a surface refining to the archwire. 25. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising tooling for forming a loop in the archwire. 26. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising tooling for joining a feature to the archwire. 