Systems, methods and devices for the automated retrieval/delivery of goods from one location to another using a robotic device such as a tug and accompanying cart. A computer within the tug/cart stores a map of the building floor plan and intended paths for the tug to take when traversing from one location to the next. During the delivery, a variety of different sensors and scanners gather data that is used to avoid obstacles and/or continuously adjust the movement of the tug in order to more closely follow the intended path. The system preferably includes wireless networks that allow one or more tugs to communicate with a tug base station, a primary network located at the site of the delivery and a remote host center that monitors the status and data collected by the tugs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device for retrieving/delivering goods, comprising: a body; drive wheels connected to the body; at least one motor connected to the drive wheels; at least one sensor connected to the body; and an onboard controller communicably connected to the at least one sensor, wherein the onboard controller is configured to: store a map of an environment in which the device is to operate; receive information from the at least one sensor; and utilize the map and the information to continuously confirm an absolute location of the device in the map. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said at least one sensor includes a plurality of directional infrared sensors, wherein said plurality of directional sensors comprises at least three directional sensors. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein at least two of said plurality of directional infrared sensors intersect with each other in a vertical plane. 4. The device of claim 2, wherein at least two of said plurality of directional infrared sensors intersect with each other in a horizontal plane. 5. The device of claim 2, wherein said plurality of directional infrared sensors are oriented in a series of generally planar rows, each of said rows at a different angle of incidence with respect to a horizon. 6. The device of claim 2, wherein said at least one sensor further includes a sonar. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein said at least one sensor includes a sonar. 8. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a rear-facing sensor to detect objects behind the device. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein said at least one sensor includes a camera. 10. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a camera. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein said camera is an infrared camera. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein said camera is a stereovision camera. 13. The device of claim 1, further comprising: an interface; and a cart attached to said body by said interface. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein said interface both mechanically and electrically connects said cart to said body. 15. The device of claim 13, wherein said interface includes a pressure sensor to measure the weight of the cart. 16. The device of claim 13, wherein said interface includes a rotational sensor to detect a rotational angle between the body and the cart as measured at the interface. 17. The device of claim 13, wherein said interface maintains an electrical and mechanical connection between the body and the cart with 360 degrees of rotational freedom along a vertical axis at the interface. 18. The device of claim 13, wherein said cart includes a single-action button to send the device to a next destination from a present destination. 19. The device of claim 13 wherein said cart is a general purpose cart that includes password protected access to inner portions of the cart. 20. The device of claim 19, further comprising: data storage means on the device to log and track an identification of all persons that access said inner portions of said cart. 21. The device of claim 13, wherein said cart further includes an attachment means on a rear face of the cart. 22. The device of claim 21, wherein said attachment means is a horizontal hook. 23. The device of claim 13, wherein said cart is a dietary cart and includes shelves adapted to accept meal trays. 24. The device of claim 13, wherein said cart is a tote cart adapted to accept a plurality of bulk containers within an open metal frame. 25. The device of claim 13, wherein said cart is a hamper cart defined by a solid floor and at least three solid sides. 26. The device of claim 13, wherein said interface is adapted to removably attach/detach said cart from said body. 27. The device of claim 26, wherein said attachment/detachment occurs automatically. 28. The device of claim 13, wherein said cart includes individual locking drawers, and contents of the drawers are accessible via an electronic keypad-based lock. 29. The device of claim 13 wherein said cart includes an alarm to warn users about potential hazards. 30. The device of claim 29, wherein said alarm is a flashing light. 31. The device of claim 13, wherein said cart includes a speaker to play audible messages. 32. The device of claim 31, wherein said messages are prerecorded. 33. The device of claim 31, wherein said messages are sent to said device via a remote Voice over IP connection. 34. The device of claim 1, wherein said sensor includes a sensor edge along a portion of the device. 35. The device of claim 34, wherein said sensor edge is embedded in a front bumper of the device. 36. The device of claim 34, wherein said sensor edge is embedded in a complete circle around the entire perimeter of the device. 37. The device of claim 1, further comprising: wireless transmission and reception capabilities. 38. The device of claim 37, wherein said wireless capabilities are adapted to communicate with an external elevator control. 39. The device of claim 37, wherein said wireless capabilities are adapted to communicate with an automatic door opener. 40. The device of claim 37, wherein said wireless capabilities are adapted to communicate with a remote host center. 