A method and apparatus for identifying tissue structures in advance of a mechanical medical instrument during a medical procedure. A mechanical tissue penetrating medical instrument (22) has a distal end for penetrating tissue in a penetrating direction. An optical wavefront analysis system (32-50) provides light to illuminate tissue ahead of the medical instrument and receives light returned by tissue ahead of the medical instrument. An optical fiber (30) is coupled at a proximal end to the wavefront analysis system and attached at a distal end to the medical instrument proximate the distal end of the medical instrument. The distal end of the fiber has an illumination pattern directed substantially in the penetrating direction for illuminating the tissue ahead of the medical instrument and receiving light returned therefrom. The wavefront analysis system provides information about the distance from the distal end of the medical instrument to tissue features ahead of the medical instrument.
Claims I claim: 1. An integrated medical needle and optical system for identifying tissue structures in advance of said needle during a medical procedure, comprising: a medical needle having a distal end for piercing tissue in a penetrating direction ahead of said distal end, said needle having an exterior surface; an optical wavefront analysis system for providing light to illuminate tissue ahead of said needle, receiving light returned by tissue ahead of said needle and providing information about the distance from said distal end of said needle to tissue features ahead of said needle; and at least one single optical fiber disposed within the interior of said needle, coupled at a proximal end to said wavefront analysis system, and having a distal end disposed proximate said distal end of said needle, said distal end of said one single optical fiber having an illumination pattern directed substantially in said penetrating direction for illuminating the tissue ahead of said needle and receiving light returned therefrom without the assistance of a separate optical element coupled to said one single fiber at the distal end thereof. 2. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, wherein said wavefront analysis system comprises a coherent domain reflectometer. 3. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, wherein said needle has an interior channel formed therein along the longitudinal axis thereof and said one single fiber is disposed in said channel. 4. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, further comprising at least one additional single optical fiber disposed within said needle along the longitudinal axis of said needle and terminating with its distal end proximate the tip of the needle, said at least one additional single fiber being coupled at a proximal end to a wavefront analysis system. 5. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, wherein said needle further comprises a cutting edge, said distal end of said one single fiber being at least a part of said cutting edge. 6. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, further comprising a robotic surgery apparatus for positioning said needle and said wavefront analysis system provides a feedback signal to said robotic surgery apparatus for controlling the position of said needle. 7. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, wherein said wavefront analysis system is adopted to identify, from said light returned to the distal end of said one single fiber, the distance from said distal end of said needle to a critical boundary within said tissue. 8. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, wherein said fiber consists essentially of a single-mode fiber core embedded in said needle. 9. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 1, wherein said needle comprises a spinal block needle having a proximal end, a distal end, and an aperture extending there through from said proximal end to said distal end, said needle further having a removable core for insertion within said needle and having a distal end disposed at said distal end of said needle when said core is inserted within said needle, said optical fiber being embedded within said core, said distal end of said one single fiber being disposed substantially at said distal end of said core. 10. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 9, wherein said wavefront analysis system is adapted to identify, from said light scattered into said distal end of said one single fiber, the distance from said distal end of said needle to a critical boundary within said tissue. 11. The integrated needle and optical system of claim 9, wherein said one single optical fiber is embedded in a groove in said core. 12. A method for identifying tissue features in advance of a tissue penetrating needle during a medical procedure, comprising: coupling light into a proximal end of at least one single optical fiber disposed within the interior of a tissue penetrating needle having a distal end for piercing tissue in a penetrating direction of said distal end so as to cause the light to be emitted from a distal end of said one single fiber disposed proximate said distal end of said needle into tissue with an illumination pattern substantially in said penetrating direction in advance of said needle; coupling from said proximal end of said one single fiber to a wavefront analysis system light that is emitted from said distal end of said one single fiber and returned thereto without the assistance of a separate optical element coupled to said one single fiber at the distal end thereof; and while said needle is advanced into tissue, analyzing said light returned from the tissue to determine the distance from said distal end of the needle to tissue features in advance of the needle. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said analyzing light employs optical coherent domain reflectometry. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said illumination pattern is achieved without the aid of an imaging optical element separate from said one single fiber. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising coupling light into a proximal end of a second single optical fiber disposed within the interior of said mechanical tissue penetrating needle so as to cause the light to be emitted from a distal end of said second single fiber disposed proximate said distal end of said needle into said tissue substantially in said penetrating direction in advance of said needle; coupling from said proximal end of said second single fiber to said wavefront analysis system light that is emitted from said distal end of said second single fiber and returned thereto; while the needle is advanced into tissue, analyzing said light returned from the tissue to the said second single fiber to determine the distance from said distal end of the needle to tissue features in advance of the needle; and averaging the distances determined using both single fibers. 16. A tissue penetrating needle for identifying tissue in advance thereof, comprising: a tissue penetrating needle having a distal end for piercing tissue in a penetrating direction ahead of said distal end and a surface defining the exterior of said needle; at least one single optical fiber, having a proximal end and a distal end, said one single fiber being contained within the interior of said needle so that said distal end of said one single fiber is adjacent said distal end of said needle and said one single fiber extends along said needle toward said proximal end of said needle, said proximal end of said fiber having a mechanism for coupling said one single fiber to an optical sensing system, and said distal end of said fiber being positioned so as to direct and receive light along said penetrating direction without the assistance of a separate optical element coupled to said one single fiber at the distal end thereof. 