Apparatus is provided for diagnosing or treating an organ or vessel, wherein a device having at least two optical fiber sensors disposed in a distal extremity thereof is coupled to processing logic programmed to compute a multi-dimensional force vector responsive to detected changes in the optical characteristics of the optical fiber sensors arising from deflection of the distal extremity resulting from contact with the tissue of the wall of the organ or vessel. The force vector may be used to facilitate manipulation of the catheter either directly or automatically using a robotic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for diagnosis or treatment of a vessel or organ, the apparatus comprising: a catheter having a distal extremity; at least two optical fiber sensors affixed within the distal extremity; and processing logic operatively coupled to receive an output of the optical fiber sensors, the processing logic programmed to compute a multi-dimensional force vector corresponding to a contact force between the distal extremity and a tissue wall of the organ or vessel, the processing logic adapted to generate an output based on the multi-dimensional force vector to guide and control the distal extremity. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the processing logic is programmed to compute a three-dimensional force vector responsive to the output of the optical fiber sensors. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the optical fiber sensors are selected from the group consisting of: Fiber Bragg Grating optical fiber strain sensors, Long Period Grating optical fiber strain sensors, Intrinsic Fabry-Perot Interferometer optical fiber strain sensors, Extrinsic Fabry-Perot Interferometer optical fiber strain sensors, Michelson interferometer optical fiber strain sensors and Brillouin scattering optical fiber strain sensors. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a distal part of an optical fiber of one of the optical fiber sensors extends distally beyond the other optical fiber sensor and further comprises an additional optical fiber sensor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical fiber sensors are Michelson interferometer optical fiber strain sensors and an additional optical fiber extends beyond the optical fiber sensors and includes an additional optical fiber sensor to measure temperature. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the catheter comprises a liquid crystal polymer. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the liquid crystal polymer includes a moisture resistant. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the distal extremity further comprises at least one electrode for ablating tissue by depositing radiofrequency energy. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising an irrigation channel that conducts radiofrequency energy to the at least one electrode. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the distal extremity further comprises an irrigation channel. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the irrigation channel having a proximal portion and a distal portion disposed in the distal extremity, the distal portion comprising a material having a coefficient of thermal expansion substantially less than the coefficient of thermal expansion of the catheter, the at least two optical fiber sensors affixed to the distal portion. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the distal portion comprises titanium. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a polymeric housing disposed in the distal extremity to surround the distal portion. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a Fiber Bragg Grating Demodulator coupled to the optical fiber sensors to generate the output. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the catheter has a corresponding force-strain conversion matrix. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the force-strain conversion matrix is stored in a memory chip, bar code or RFID tag provided with the catheter. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the force-strain conversion matrix is provided to the processing logic prior to use of the catheter. 