A printhead assembly includes a printhead module having at least first and second modular printhead tiles, the first printhead tile having a first set of connection strips, and the second printhead tile having a second set of connection strips; an electrical connector assembly for electrically connecting the first and second printhead tiles, the electrical connector assembly having printed on a surface thereof a plurality of conducting strips; and first and second modular supports arranged end to end for respectively receiving the first and second printhead tiles, the first and second modular supports shaped to complementarily define a first cavity portion therebetween. The first printhead tile is received in the first modular support such that the first set of connection strips extend over the cavity portion. The second printhead tile is received in the second modular support such that the second set of electrical connection strips extend over the cavity portion. The electrical connector assembly is received in the cavity portion such that the conducting strips are in electrical contact with the first and second set of electrical connection strips.
Claims We claim: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a printhead module having at least first and second modular printhead tiles, the first printhead tile having a first set of connection strips, and the second printhead tile having a second set of connection strips; an electrical connector assembly for electrically connecting the first and second printhead tiles, the electrical connector assembly having printed on a surface thereof a plurality of conducting strips; and first and second modular supports arranged end to end for respectively receiving the first and second printhead tiles, the first and second modular supports shaped to complementarily define a first cavity portion therebetween, wherein the first printhead tile is received in the first modular support such that the first set of connection strips extend over the cavity portion, the second printhead tile is received in the second modular support such that the second set of electrical connection strips extend over the cavity portion, and the electrical connector assembly is received in the cavity portion such that the conducting strips are in electrical contact with the first and second set of electrical connection strips. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, further comprising a ducting assembly having a laminated stack of layers, each layer of the stack having a number of apertures for facilitating a flow of ink from an ink reservoir to nozzle assemblies of the first and second printhead tiles. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 2, wherein a curable resin is used as a seal between the ducting assembly and the first and second printhead tiles. 4. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the first printhead tile has a male portion for mating with a female portion of the second printhead tile. 5. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the connecting member is a rectangular block having the series of conducting strips printed on the surface thereof. 6. The connector assembly of claim 5, wherein the connecting member is formed of a strip of silicone rubber. 7. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the conducting strips of the connecting member are provided in a 2:1 relationship with the connecting strips of the first and second printhead tiles. 