The present invention provides 6-modified bicyclic nucleoside analogs and oligomeric compounds comprising these nucleoside analogs. In preferred embodiments the nucleoside analogs have either (R) or (S)-chirality at the 6-position. These bicyclicnucleoside analogs are useful for enhancing properties of oligomeric compounds including nuclease resistance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An oligomeric compound comprising at least one monomer having Formula IX: ##STR00054## wherein independently for each of said monomers having Formula IX: Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety; T.sub.3 and T.sub.4 are each, independently, an internucleoside linking group linking the monomer to the oligomeric compound or one of T.sub.3 and T.sub.4 is an internucleoside linking group linking the monomer to the oligomeric compound and the other of T.sub.3 and T.sub.4 is H, a hydroxyl protecting group or a linked conjugate group; Z is C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl or substituted C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl; each substituted group is, independently, mono or poly substituted with optionally protected substituent groups independently selected from fluoro, OJ.sub.1, NJ.sub.1J.sub.2, SJ.sub.1 and CN, wherein each J.sub.1 and J.sub.2 is, independently, H, C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl or a protecting group; and wherein said oligomeric compound comprises from about 8 to about 40 nucleosides and/or modified nucleosides or mimetics in length. 2. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein each Z is methyl. 3. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein each Z is CH.sub.2OCH.sub.3. 4. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein each Z is CH.sub.2F, CHF.sub.2 or CF.sub.3. 5. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 including at least one modified nucleoside wherein each modified nucleoside independently comprises a modified sugar moiety selected from a 4'-S modified sugar, a bicyclic modified sugar or a substituted sugar. 6. The oligomeric compound of claim 5 wherein each modified nucleoside comprises a modified sugar moiety independently selected from a 2'-F, 2'-OCH.sub.3, 2'-O--(CH.sub.2).sub.2--OCH.sub.3 or a 2'-O--CH.sub.2-4' modified sugar moiety. 7. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 comprising from about 8 to about 20 nucleosides and/or modified nucleosides or mimetics in length. 8. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein essentially each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 9. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein essentially each internucleoside linkage is a phosphodiester internucleoside linkage. 10. An oligomeric compound having the formula: G-[T-L].sub.j-[R-L].sub.q-R-[L-T].sub.r-E III wherein: each R is a .beta.-D-2'-deoxyribonucleoside; each L is, independently, a phosphodiester or phosphorothioate internucleoside linking group; G and E are each, independently, H, a hydroxyl protecting group or a linked conjugate group; each T is a monomer of the Formula VIII: ##STR00055## wherein independently for each monomer having Formula VIII: Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety; Z is C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl or substituted C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl; each substituted group is, independently, mono or poly substituted with optionally protected substituent groups independently selected from fluoro, OJ.sub.1, NJ.sub.1J.sub.2, SJ.sub.1 and CN, wherein each J.sub.1 and J.sub.2 is, independently, H, C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl or a protecting group; q is from 8 to about 14; j is 0 or from 1 to 5; r is 0 or from 1 to 5; and the sum of j and r is at least 1. 11. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein each Z is methyl. 12. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein each Z is CH.sub.2OCH.sub.3. 13. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein each Z is CH.sub.2F, CHF.sub.2 or CF.sub.3. 14. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein j is 0. 15. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein r is 0. 16. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein j and r are each other than 0. 17. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein j and r are each 2, q is 9 and G and H are each H. 18. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein each L is a phosphodiester internucleoside linkage. 19. The oligomeric compound of claim 10 wherein each L is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 