A semiconductor substrate processing apparatus and a method for processing semiconductor substrates are provided. The method may include providing a semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system, plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system; and generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems. The generating of the translation may include calculating an offset between the first and the second coordinate systems. The calculating of the offset may include calculating an offset distance between a reference point of the first coordinate system and a reference point of the second coordinate system and calculating an offset angle between an axis of the first coordinate system and an axis of the second coordinate system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A semiconductor substrate processing system comprising: a frame; a chamber wall enclosing a chamber, the chamber having a first portion and a second portion; a load-lock chamber connected to the frame and being adjacent to the first portion of the chamber; a robotic stage having a base and a robotic arm, the base being connected to the frame and positioned within the first portion of the chamber, the robotic arm being rotatably connected to the base to transport a semiconductor substrate from the load-lock chamber to the second portion of the chamber into a test position; an x-ray source connected to the frame to emit x rays onto the semiconductor substrate, the x rays causing photoelectrons to be emitted from a material on the semiconductor substrate while in the test position; an analyzer connected to the frame to capture the photoelectrons and determine the kinetic energy of the photoelectrons; and a controller being electrically connected to and to control the robotic stage, the x ray source, and the analyzer. 2. The semiconductor substrate processing system of claim 1, further comprising a camera being electrically connected to the controller to image a portion of the semiconductor substrate. 3. The semiconductor substrate processing system of claim 2, wherein the x rays strike the imaged portion of the semiconductor substrate. 4. The semiconductor substrate processing system of claim 3, wherein the x ray source and the camera are moveably connected to the frame to move the imaged portion of the semiconductor substrate. 5. The semiconductor substrate processing system of claim 4, wherein the controller includes a processor and a memory storing instructions, which when executed by the processor causes the system to perform a method, the method comprising: providing a calibration semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system; plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system; and generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems. 6. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 5, wherein the method further comprises: providing a test semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of second features on the surface, each second feature being positioned on the surface of the test semiconductor substrate at a third respective point in the first coordinate system; translating the third respective points in the first coordinate system into fourth respective points in the second coordinate system; and moving the test semiconductor substrate into a plurality of substrate positions, each substrate position corresponding to one of the fourth respective points in the second coordinate system. 7. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 6, wherein the plurality of substrate positions comprises a first substrate position, a second substrate position, and a third substrate position. 8. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 7, wherein each time the second semiconductor substrate is moved into the first, second, and third substrate positions, the second semiconductor substrate is moved in a first direction. 9. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 8, wherein the robotic arm moves in a third coordinate system. 10. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 9, further comprising generating a translation between the third coordinate system and the second coordinate system. 11. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first and second coordinate systems are Cartesian coordinate systems and the third coordinate system is a polar coordinate system. 12. A semiconductor substrate processing system comprising: a frame; a chamber wall enclosing a chamber, the chamber having a first portion and a second portion; a load-lock chamber connected to the frame and being adjacent to the first portion of the chamber; a robotic stage having a base and a robotic arm, the base being connected to the frame and positioned within the first portion of the chamber, the robotic arm being rotatably connected to the base to transport a semiconductor substrate from the load-lock chamber to the second portion of the chamber into a test position; an electromagnetic radiation source connected to the frame to emit electromagnetic radiation onto the semiconductor wafer, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from a material on the semiconductor substrate while in the test position; an analyzer connected to the frame to capture the photoelectrons and determine the kinetic energy of the photoelectrons; a controller being electrically connected to and to control the robotic stage, the electromagnetic radiation source, and the analyzer, wherein the controller includes a processor and a memory storing instructions, which when executed by the processor causes the system to perform a method, the method comprising: providing a calibration semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system; plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system; and generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems; and a camera being electrically connected to the controller to image a portion of the semiconductor substrate, wherein the electromagnetic radiation strikes the imaged portion of the semiconductor substrate, and wherein the electromagnetic radiation source and the camera are moveably connected to the frame to move the imaged portion of the semiconductor substrate. 13. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: providing a test semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of second features on the surface, each second feature being positioned on the surface of the test semiconductor substrate at a third respective point in the first coordinate system; translating the third respective points in the first coordinate system into fourth respective points in the second coordinate system; and moving the test semiconductor substrate into a plurality of substrate positions, each substrate position corresponding to one of the fourth respective points in the second coordinate system. 14. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 13, wherein the plurality of substrate positions comprises a first substrate position, a second substrate position, and a third substrate position. 15. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 14, wherein each time the second semiconductor substrate is moved into the first, second, and third substrate positions, the second semiconductor substrate is moved in a first direction. 16. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 15, wherein the robotic arm moves in a third coordinate system. 17. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 16, further comprising generating a translation between the third coordinate system and the second coordinate system. 18. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 17, wherein the first and second coordinate systems are Cartesian coordinate systems and the third coordinate system is a polar coordinate system. 19. A semiconductor substrate processing system comprising: a frame; a chamber wall enclosing a chamber, the chamber having a first portion and a second portion; a load-lock chamber connected to the frame and being adjacent to the first portion of the chamber; a robotic stage having a base and a robotic arm, the base being connected to the frame and positioned within the first portion of the chamber, the robotic arm being rotatably connected to the base to transport a semiconductor substrate from the load-lock chamber to the second portion of the chamber into a test position; an electromagnetic radiation source connected to the frame to emit electromagnetic radiation onto the semiconductor wafer, the electromagnetic radiation causing photoelectrons to be emitted from a material on the semiconductor substrate while in the test position; an analyzer connected to the frame to capture the photoelectrons and determine the kinetic energy of the photoelectrons; and a controller being electrically connected to and to control the robotic stage, the electromagnetic radiation source, and the analyzer, wherein the controller includes a processor and a memory storing instructions, which when executed by the processor causes the system to perform a method, the method comprising: providing a calibration semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system; plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system; and generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems. 20. The semiconductor substrate processing apparatus of claim 19, wherein the method further comprises: providing a test semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of second features on the surface, each second feature being positioned on the surface of the test semiconductor substrate at a third respective point in the first coordinate system; translating the third respective points in the first coordinate system into fourth respective points in the second coordinate system; and moving the test semiconductor substrate into a plurality of substrate positions, each substrate position corresponding to one of the fourth respective points in the second coordinate system. 