A generalized interface for interconnecting a wide range of electronic musical instruments and signal processing systems includes an outgoing multi-channel audio interface and an outgoing control interface. The outgoing multi-channel audio interface receives instrument audio signals generated by an external musical instrument, while the outgoing control interface receives MIDI control signals generated by the same external musical instrument. The outgoing multi-channel audio interface and the outgoing control interface respectively communicate audio signals and MIDI control signals to the external signal processing system. Variations include the addition of multi-channel audio paths to the instrument using drive transducer signals to excite instrument vibrating elements; the use of control paths to the instrument to control on-instrument lighting, signal processing, drive transducers, controller interpretation, etc.; non-MIDI control paths out of the instrument; providing the instrument with expanded power to supporting on-instrument lighting, video devices, and other auxiliary systems; video signals out of the instrument; and video signals to the instrument to support on-instrument video display.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for interconnecting electronic musical instruments and signal processing systems, said method comprising: receiving instrument audio signals at an outgoing multi-channel audio interface, wherein said instrument audio signals comprise at least three independent audio signals generated by an external musical instrument; providing said instrument audio signals to an external signal processing system; receiving incoming control signals at an incoming control interface, wherein said incoming control signals are generated by said external signal processing system; providing said incoming control signals to said external musical instrument; receiving control signals at an outgoing control interface, wherein said control signals are generated by said external musical instrument; and providing said control signals to said external signal processing system. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said outgoing multi-channel audio interface and said outgoing control interface are integrated to utilize a common physical interface connector. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said outgoing multi-channel audio interface and said outgoing control interface utilize a plurality of physical interface connectors. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said incoming control signals comprise signals of MIDI format. 5. The method according to claim 1, said method further comprising: receiving a plurality of incoming audio signals at an incoming multi-channel audio interface, wherein said plurality of incoming audio signals are generated by said external signal processing system, and wherein said incoming multi-channel audio interface provides said plurality of incoming audio signals to said external musical instrument. 6. The method according to claim 1, said method further comprising: receiving electrical power at a low-power interface, wherein said electrical power is provided by said external signal processing system, wherein said low-power interface provides said electrical power to said external musical instrument, and wherein said electrical power is adapted to provide power to an audio subsystem integrated with said external musical instrument. 7. The method according to claim 1, said method further comprising: receiving electrical power at a low-power interface, wherein said electrical power is provided by said external signal processing system, wherein said low-power interface provides said electrical power to said external musical instrument, and wherein said electrical power is adapted to provide power to a control subsystem integrated with said external musical instrument. 8. The method according to claim 1, said method further comprising: receiving moderate-load electrical power at a moderate-power interface, wherein said moderate-load electrical power is provided by said external signal processing system, wherein said moderate-power interface provides said moderate-load electrical power to said external musical instrument, and wherein said moderate-load electrical power is adapted to provide power to auxiliary systems associated with said external musical instrument. 9. The method according to claim 1, said method further comprising: receiving outgoing video signals at an outgoing video interface, wherein said outgoing video signals are generated by said external musical instrument, and wherein said outgoing video interface provides said outgoing video signals to said external signal processing system. 10. The method according to claim 1, said method further comprising: receiving incoming video signals at an incoming video interface, wherein said incoming video signals are generated by said external signal processing system, wherein said incoming video interface provides said incoming video signals to said external musical instrument. 11. The method according claim 2, wherein said common physical connector is attached to one end of a cable for connecting said outgoing multi-channel audio interface and said outgoing control interface to said external signal processing system. 12. The method according claim 2, wherein said common physical connector is attached to one end of a cable for connecting said outgoing multi-channel audio interface and said outgoing control interface to said external musical instrument. 13. The method according claim 2, wherein said common physical connector is for mating with a connector integrated with said external musical instrument. 14. The method according claim 2, wherein said common physical connector is for mating with a connector integrated with said external signal processing system. 15. The method according claim 2, wherein said common physical connector is attached to one end of a cable assembly for connecting said outgoing multi-channel audio interface and said outgoing control interface to said external musical instrument. 16. The method according claim 3, wherein at least one physical interface connector of said plurality of physical interface connectors is configured to mate with a connector integrated with said external musical instrument. 17. The method according to claim 3, wherein at least one physical interface connector of said plurality of physical interface connectors is configured to mate with a connector integrated with said external signal processing system. 18. A method for interconnecting electronic musical instruments and signal processing systems, said method comprising: receiving instrument audio signals at an outgoing multi-channel audio interface, wherein said instrument audio signals comprise at least three independent audio signals generated by an external musical instrument; providing said instrument audio signals to an external signal processing system; receiving a plurality of incoming audio signals at an incoming multi-channel audio interface, wherein said plurality of incoming audio signals are generated by said external signal processing system; and providing said plurality of incoming audio signals to said external musical instrument. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein said outgoing multi-channel audio interface and said incoming multi-channel audio interface are integrated to utilize a common physical interface connector. 20. The method according to claim 18, wherein said outgoing multi-channel audio interface and said incoming multi-channel audio interface utilize a plurality of physical interface connectors. 21. The method according to claim 18, said method further comprising: providing said instrument audio signals to said external signal processing system and said plurality of incoming audio signals to said external musical instrument using a wireless communication link. 22. The method according to claim 18, said method further comprising: receiving incoming control signals at an incoming control interface, wherein said incoming control signals are generated by said external signal processing system, and wherein said incoming control interface provides said incoming control signals to said external musical instrument. 23. The method according to claim 22, wherein said incoming control signals comprise signals of MIDI format. 24. The method according to claim 18, said method further comprising: receiving electrical power at a low-power interface, wherein said electrical power is provided by said external signal processing system, wherein said low-power interface provides said electrical power to said external musical instrument, and wherein said electrical power is adapted to provide power to an audio subsystem integrated with said external musical instrument. 25. The method according to claim 18, said interface further comprising: receiving moderate-load electrical power at a moderate-power interface, wherein said moderate-load electrical power is provided by said external signal processing system, wherein said moderate-power interface provides said moderate-load electrical power to said external musical instrument, and wherein said moderate-load electrical power is adapted to provide power to auxiliary systems associated with said external musical instrument. 26. The method according to claim 18, said method further comprising: receiving outgoing video signals at an outgoing video interface, wherein said outgoing video signals are generated by said external musical instrument, and wherein said outgoing video interface provides said outgoing video signals to said external signal processing system. 