A method of producing a composite component that includes both a structural insert and a plastic casing. According to an exemplary embodiment, the method uses a closed-loop control system and includes the following steps: evaluating the structural insert for various attributes, placing the structural insert in a mold cavity, adjusting the position and/or orientation of the structural insert with respect to the mold cavity based on, among other things, the evaluated attributes, and injecting molten material into the mold cavity so that it at least partially surrounds the structural insert.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of producing a composite component, the method comprising the steps of: (a) evaluating a structural insert for one or more attribute(s); (b) placing the structural insert in a mold cavity of a molding machine; (c) automatically adjusting the position of the structural insert relative to the mold cavity using one or more movable device(s) located within the mold cavity wherein the automatic position adjustment by the movable device(s) determined by a control unit and is at least partially based on the evaluated attribute(s); and (d) injecting molten material into the mold cavity so that the molten material at least partially surrounds the structural insert. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert using one or more non-contact evaluation device(s). 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the non-contact evaluation device(s) is a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert at a location that is remote of the mold cavity and is part of its automated loading movement into the mold cavity. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert using a contact evaluation device. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert to obtain dimensional data about the structural insert. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) further comprises adjusting the position of the structural insert using a drive mechanism to raise or lower one or more locating pin(s) that support the structural insert in the mold cavity. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein step (c) further comprises adjusting the position of the structural insert using one or more locating pin(s) that are biased toward a fully raised position. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein step (d) further comprises injecting molten material into the mold cavity in a shot-size of molten material that is at least partially based on the evaluated attributes of the structural insert. 10. A method of producing a composite component, the method comprising the steps of: (a) evaluating a structural insert; (b) obtaining dimensional data about the structural insert from the evaluation; (c) processing the dimensional data with a control unit; and (d) controlling one or more locating pin(s) that support the structural insert in a mold cavity of a molding machine, wherein the control unit uses the dimensional data to control the locating pin(s). 11. The method of claim 10, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert using a non-contact evaluation device at a location that is remote of the mold cavity. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert using a non-contact evaluation device while the structural insert is supported by the one or more locating pin(s). 13. The method of claim 10, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert using one or more charge-coupled device (CCD) camera(s). 14. The method of claim 10, wherein step (a) further comprises evaluating a structural insert using one or more laser camera(s). 15. The method of claim 10, wherein step (c) further comprises processing the dimensional data with a control unit in order to determine volumetric information about the structural insert. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein step (d) further comprises controlling one or more locating pin(s) by using a drive mechanism to raise or lower the locating pin(s) based on the volumetric information of the structural insert. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein step (d) further comprises controlling one or more locating pin(s) wherein at least one of the locating pin(s) is biased toward a fully raised position. 18. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of: (e) controlling the amount of molten material that is used in the mold cavity based on the dimensional data of the structural insert. 19. A system for producing a composite component, comprising: an evaluation device for evaluating a structural insert; a molding machine having a mold cavity and a drive mechanism for driving one or more locating pin(s) that support the structural insert; and a closed-loop control system electronically coupled to the evaluation device and to the drive mechanism, wherein the closed-loop control system uses data from the evaluation device to generate command signals for controlling the drive mechanism. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the evaluation device evaluates the structural insert at a location that is remote of the mold cavity. 21. The system of claim 20, further comprising a robotic arm that carries the structural insert across an evaluation area as its being loaded into the mold cavity. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein the evaluation device evaluates the structural insert while the structural insert is supported by the one or more locating pin(s). 23. The system of claim 19, wherein the molding machine includes one or more locating pin(s) that support the structural insert and that is biased toward a fully raised position. 24. The system of claim 19, wherein the closed-loop control system uses data from the evaluation device to generate command signals for controlling the amount of molten material that is used in the mold cavity for producing the composite component. 25. The system of claim 19, wherein the composite component is a chassis component for a vehicle. 