An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in sample vessels. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a sample, incubating the sample, preforming an analyte isolation procedure, ascertaining the presence of a target analyte, and analyzing the amount of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the sample vessels from one station to the next. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte, and, in one embodiment, a method for real-time monitoring of the amplification process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system configured to process the contents of multiple receptacles to determine the amount of a first target nucleic acid present in samples contained in a first group of receptacles and to ascertain the presence or absence of a second target nucleic acid in samples contained in a second group of receptacles, said system comprising: (A) at least one temperature-controlled incubator having a housing defining a temperature-controlled chamber configured to hold a plurality of receptacles, said housing including one or more closable receptacle access openings for moving the receptacles into and out of said incubator; (B) a nucleic acid quantification system including a signal measuring device constructed and arranged to measure a signal emitted by the contents of a receptacle held within said temperature-controlled chamber and placed in operative proximity to said signal measuring device, said nucleic acid quantification system being constructed and arranged to determine the amount of the first target nucleic acid within each receptacle of the first group of receptacles held within said temperature-controlled chamber during a nucleic acid amplification process by: (1) periodically measuring the amount of a signal emitted by the contents of each receptacle with said signal measuring device; and (2) quantifying the amount of the first target nucleic acid present in each receptacle based upon the periodic measurements; (C) a nucleic acid detection system, distinct from said nucleic acid quantification system and said incubator and including a signal detecting device constructed and arranged to detect a signal emitted by the contents of a receptacle placed in operative proximity to said signal detecting device within a detection chamber distinct from said incubator, said nucleic acid detection system being constructed and arranged to ascertain the presence of the second target nucleic acid within each receptacle of the second group of receptacles after the receptacle is transferred from said incubator to said detection chamber after an end-point nucleic acid amplification assay by: (1) detecting a signal emitted by the contents each receptacle transferred to said detection chamber with said signal detecting device; and (2) ascertaining the presence or absence of the second target nucleic acid in the receptacle based upon whether or not a signal above a threshold level is detected; and (D) a receptacle transport system configured and controlled to: (1) successively transport a plurality of receptacles to said incubator, by, for each of the receptacles transported to said incubator, opening one of said receptacle access openings and moving the receptacle through the opened receptacle access opening and into said temperature-controlled chamber and then closing the receptacle access opening, thereby permitting ambient light to enter the temperature-controlled chamber of the incubator through the opened receptacle access opening, (2) successively remove receptacles from said incubator after completion of an amplification reaction within the receptacles by, for each receptacle removed from said incubator, opening one of said receptacle access openings and moving the receptacle through the opened receptacle access opening and out of said incubator and then closing the receptacle access opening, thereby permitting ambient light to enter the temperature-controlled chamber of the incubator through the opened receptacle access opening, and (3) successively move each receptacle removed from the incubator and belonging to the second group of receptacles to said detection chamber and into operative proximity to said signal detecting device, wherein said receptacle transport system is configured and controlled to successively transport receptacles to said incubator and successively remove receptacles from said incubator while said nucleic acid quantification system determines the amount of the first target nucleic acid within each receptacle of the first group of receptacles held within said temperature-controlled chamber during the nucleic acid amplification process. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a label reading device adapted to read machine-readable data associated with each receptacle of the multiple receptacles and a controller in communication with said label reading device and adapted to associate the machine-readable data associated with each receptacle with the first group of receptacles or the second group of receptacle. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said receptacle transport system comprises a transport mechanism rotatable about an axis of rotation. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising a signal measuring device transport mechanism constructed and arranged to move said signal measuring device into operative proximity with respect to a receptacle disposed within said temperature-controlled chamber. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said signal measuring device comprises a fluorometer constructed and arranged to measure a fluorometric emission from the contents of a receptacle. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said signal detecting device comprises a luminometer constructed and arranged to detect a chemiluminescent emission from the contents of a receptacle. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said nucleic acid quantification system and said nucleic acid detection system are contained within a housing. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said signal measuring device and said signal detecting device are situated on a processing deck within said housing. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said housing defines a self-contained, stand alone analyzer unit. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the analyzer unit is movable. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein: said temperature-controlled incubator includes a receptacle carrier disposed within said temperature-controlled chamber and including a plurality of receptacle stations, each of said receptacle stations being constructed and arranged to carry at least one receptacle, and said signal measuring device is positioned with respect to said receptacle carrier such that receptacles carried on said receptacle carrier are successively moved into operative proximity to said signal measuring device as said receptacle carrier moves the receptacles within said temperature-controlled chamber, and wherein said receptacle carrier is controlled so as to move receptacles within said incubation chamber to successively and periodically place receptacles carried thereby in operative proximity to said signal measuring device, and said signal measuring device is controlled so as to make periodic measurements of the amount of signal emitted by the contents of receptacles placed in operative proximity to said signal measuring device. 12. The system of claim 11, said nucleic acid quantification system further comprising a microprocessor adapted to quantify the amount of the target nucleic acid in the receptacles based upon the periodic measurements made by said signal measuring device. 13. The system of claim 11, said nucleic acid quantification system further comprising: a signal measuring device transport mechanism constructed and arranged to move said signal measuring device with respect to said receptacle carrier, wherein each receptacle station of said receptacle carrier is constructed and arranged to carry more than one receptacle, said receptacle carrier is controlled so as to successively present said receptacle stations in a signal measuring position with respect to said signal measuring device, and said signal measuring device transport mechanism is controlled so as to move said signal measuring device with respect to said receptacle carrier to successively place said signal measuring device into operative proximity to each of the receptacles carried in said receptacle station moved into the signal measuring position. 14. The system of claim 11, said nucleic acid quantification system comprising more than one signal measuring device, each signal measuring device being constructed and arranged to measure a different signal emitted by the contents of a receptacle. 15. The system of claim 14, said nucleic acid quantification system further comprising: a signal measuring device transport mechanism constructed and arranged to move said signal measuring devices with respect to said receptacle carrier, wherein each receptacle station of said receptacle carrier is constructed and arranged to carry more than one receptacle, said receptacle carrier is constructed and arranged to successively present said receptacle stations in signal measuring positions with respect to said signal measuring devices, and said signal measuring device transport mechanism is constructed and arranged to move each of said signal measuring devices with respect to said receptacle carrier to successively place said signal measuring device into operative proximity to each of the receptacles carried in said receptacle station moved into the signal measuring position corresponding to the signal measuring device. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein said receptacle carrier comprises a generally circular carousel mounted within said incubation chamber so as to be rotatable about an axis of rotation, wherein said receptacle stations are positioned around the periphery of said carousel. 17. The system of claim 16, said nucleic acid quantification system further comprising: a signal measuring device transport mechanism constructed and arranged to move said signal measuring device with respect to said receptacle carrier, wherein each receptacle station of said receptacle carrier is constructed and arranged to carry more than one receptacle aligned in a radial orientation with respect to the axis of rotation of said carousel, said receptacle carrier is constructed and arranged to successively present said receptacle stations in a signal measuring position with respect to said signal measuring device, and said signal measuring device transport mechanism is constructed and arranged to move said signal measuring device in a generally radial direction with respect to the axis of rotation of said carousel to successively place said signal measuring device into operative proximity to each of the receptacles carried in said receptacle station moved into the signal measuring position. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein said signal measuring device comprises a fluorometer constructed and arranged to measure a fluorometric emission from the contents of a receptacle. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said fluorometer comprises: a light emitting element adapted to emit excitation light; optical elements defining a first optical path, a second optical path, and a third optical path; a beam splitter; and a light detecting element, and wherein: said light emitting element is operatively positioned relative to said first optical path, which is constructed and arranged to transmit at least a portion of the excitation light emitted by said light emitting element, said beam splitter is operatively positioned relative to said first optical path and said second optical path and is constructed and arranged to receive the excitation light transmitted by said first optical path and to direct at least a portion of the received excitation light having desired excitation spectral components to said second optical path, said second optical path being positioned relative to a receptacle in operative proximity to the fluorometer so that said second optical path directs the light having desired excitation spectral components toward the receptacle, and said second optical path receives at least a portion of any fluorometric light emitted by the contents of the receptacle and directs the received portion toward said beam splitter, said beam splitter is operatively positioned relative to said third optical path and is constructed and arranged to receive the fluorometric light transmitted by said second optical path and to direct at least a portion of the received light having desired emission spectral components to said third optical path, and said light detecting element is operatively positioned relative to said third optical path, which is constructed and arranged to transmit at least a portion of the light having desired emission spectral components toward said light detecting element. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the optical elements of said first optical path are further constructed and arranged to substantially remove any unwanted spectral components of the light transmitted from the light emitting element. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the optical elements of said first optical path are further constructed and arranged to condition the light transmitted from said light emitting element so that the light received by said beam splitter from said first optical path is substantially within a prescribed excitation angle range with respect to an optic axis of said first optical path. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the optical elements of said first optical path comprise: a light pipe having a receiving end operatively positioned with respect to said light emitting element to receive at least a portion of the excitation light emitted by said light emitting element and to transmit the excitation light received from said receiving end to an opposed end of said light pipe; a mirror positioned and oriented so as to redirect light emitted by the opposed end of said light pipe; one or more lenses positioned so as to receive light redirected by said mirror and constructed and arranged to collimate the light received to substantially within the prescribed excitation angle range; a excitation baffle positioned to receive light collimated by said one or more lenses and constructed and arranged to block substantially all light not within the prescribed excitation angle range; and an excitation filter positioned to receive light passing through said baffle and constructed and arranged to substantially remove the unwanted spectral components of the excitation light transmitted from said light emitting element. 23. The system of claim 19, wherein the optical elements of said third optical path are constructed and arranged to eliminate at least a portion of any unwanted spectral components of the light transmitted toward the light detecting element. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the optical elements of said third optical path are further constructed and arranged to condition the light transmitted from said beam splitter so that the light received by said light detecting element from said third optical path is substantially within a prescribed detection angle range with respect to an optic axis of said third optical path. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the optical elements of said third optical path comprise: an emission baffle positioned to receive light transmitted from said beam splitter and constructed and arranged to block substantially all light not within the prescribed detection angle range; an emission filter positioned to receive light passing through said emission baffle and constructed and arranged to substantially remove the unwanted spectral components of the light transmitted toward said light detecting element; and at least one lens constructed and arranged to focus light passing though said emission filter toward said light detecting element. 26. The system of claim 19, wherein said light emitting element and said light detecting element are connected to a circuit board. 27. The system of claim 19, wherein said beam splitter comprises a dichroic beam splitter. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein said first, second, and third optical paths include first, second, and third optical axes, respectively, and (a) said first optical axis is generally perpendicular to said second optical axis, (b) said second and third optical axes are generally coaxial, and (c) said dichroic beam splitter is oriented at an angle of about 45 degrees with respect to said first, second, and third optical axes. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein said fluorometer comprises: an excitation component constructed and arranged to direct excitation energy at the receptacle; and a detection component constructed and arranged to detect the amount of energy emission from the contents of the receptacle. 30. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a receptacle transport system including at least one transport mechanism constructed and arranged to transport receptacles to or from said receptacle carrier through a receptacle access opening provided in said incubator and to successively transport receptacles to said signal detecting device following incubation of the receptacles within said incubator. 31. The system of claim 11, wherein said receptacle carrier further comprises magnetic dividers, each being disposed adjacent to one of the receptacles stations, said magnetic dividers each including one or more magnetic elements for exposing a receptacle carried in the adjacent receptacle station to a magnetic field. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein said detection chamber comprises structure defining a transport path along which a plurality of adjacently-arranged receptacles are moved through the device; and wherein said signal detecting device comprises: a photosensitive device disposed along said transport path and constructed and arranged to detect light emitted from the contents of a receptacle operatively positioned with respect to said photosensitive device; and a receptacle isolating device positioned adjacent said transport path and constructed and arranged to pivot between: (1) a first position permitting the plurality of adjacently-arranged receptacles to be moved along said transport path; and (2) a second position operatively engaging one of said receptacles disposed on said transport path and operatively positioned with respect to said photosensitive device, said receptacle isolating device being constructed and arranged to substantially prevent light from sources other than said operatively positioned receptacle engaged by said receptacle isolating device from being detected by said photosensitive device, said receptacle isolating device being constructed and arranged to pivotally rotate between said first and second positions and including structure at least partially surrounding a receptacle engaged by said receptacle isolating device when said receptacle vessel isolating device is in said second position. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein said signal detecting device further comprises a transport mechanism constructed and arranged to move the plurality of adjacently-arranged receptacles along said transport path in such a manner as to operatively position each of the adjacently-arranged receptacles with respect to said photosensitive device for a time duration sufficient to permit said photosensitive device to detect the amount of light emitted from the contents of the operatively positioned receptacle. 34. The system of claim 32, wherein said signal detecting device further comprises an aperture panel disposed adjacent said transport path and having an aperture formed therein, and wherein said photosensitive device comprises: a photomultiplier tube adapted to detect light emitted from an object placed before a light-admitting opening at one end of said photomultiplier tube and to generate an electronic signal indicative of light detected by said photomultiplier tube, said photomultiplier tube being positioned on a side of said aperture panel opposite said transport path with said light-admitting opening thereof positioned with respect to said aperture to receive light emitted from the contents of a receptacle disposed on said transport path in front of said aperture; and a shutter assembly mounted on said aperture panel and constructed and arranged to selectively admit light through said aperture formed in said aperture panel and into said photomultiplier tube by movement of said shutter assembly between an open position allowing light to pass through said aperture and a closed position preventing light from passing through said aperture, said shutter assembly comprising: a shutter constructed and arranged for rotational movement between open and closed positions corresponding to open and closed positions, respectively, of said shutter assembly, whereby said shutter blocks said aperture when said shutter is in said closed position and does not block said aperture when said shutter is in said open position; and a motor operatively coupled to said shutter for effecting powered rotation of said shutter between said open and closed positions. 35. The system of claim 1 further comprising a separation device constructed and arranged isolate a solid support material for binding a target nucleic acid present in a receptacle. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein said separation device includes a fluid aspirator mechanism constructed and arranged to aspirate fluid material from the receptacle. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein said separation device further comprises: a fluid dispense mechanism constructed and arranged to provide a wash solution to the receptacle after removing the fluid sample from the receptacle; and a mixing device constructed and arranged to agitate the receptacle to resuspend the solid support material after the wash solution has been provided by the fluid dispense mechanism. 38. The system of claim 35, wherein the separation device comprises magnetic elements for subjecting a fluid material to a magnetic field. 39. The system of claim 1, wherein each receptacle is one of a plurality of integrally formed receptacles. 40. The system of claim 2, wherein said label reading device comprises a bar code reader. 