A system and method for reducing the number of input/output connections required to connect a microfluidic substrate to an external controller for controlling the substrate. In one example, a microfluidic processing device is fabricated on a substrate having a plurality of N independently controllable components, (e.g., a resistive heating elements) each having at least two terminals. The substrate includes a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting the substrate to an external controller, and a plurality of leads for connecting the contacts to the terminals of the components. The leads are arranged to allow the external controller to supply control signals to the terminals of the components via the contacts using substantially fewer contacts than the total number of component terminals. For example, in one embodiment, each lead connects a corresponding contact to a plurality of terminals to allow the controller to supply to signals to the terminals without requiring a separate contact for each terminal. However, to assure that the components can each be controlled independently of the others, the leads are also arranged so that each component's terminals are connected to a unique combination of contacts. Thus, the external controller can activate a selected component by supplying control signals to the combination of contacts uniquely associated with that component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microfluidic processing device, comprising: a substrate comprising a plurality of N independently controllable components each having at least two terminals, wherein said components are optically monitored; a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting said substrate to an external controller; and a plurality of leads for connecting said contacts to said terminals whereby the number of contacts required to independently control said N components is substantially less than the total number of terminals without requiring a separate lead for each said terminal, and wherein said controller can thereby control each said component independently of each other component. 2. A microfluidic processing device, comprising: a substrate comprising a plurality of N independently controllable components each having at least two terminals; a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting said substrate to an external controller, wherein said contacts include features to enable connection to said substrate with flexible ribbon cable, multi-pin socket, or fiber-optic cable; and a plurality of leads for connecting said contacts to said terminals whereby the number of contacts required to independently control said N components is substantially less than the total number of terminals without requiring a separate lead for each said terminal, and wherein said controller can thereby control each said component independently of each other component. 3. A microfluidic processing device, comprising: a substrate comprising a plurality of N independently controllable components each having at least two terminals; a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting said substrate to an external controller; and a plurality of leads for connecting said contacts to said terminals whereby the number of contacts required to independently control said N components is substantially less than the total number of terminals without requiring a separate lead for each said terminal, wherein the terminals of each of said N independently controllable components are attached to a unique combination of leads, and wherein said controller can thereby control each said component independently of each other component. 4. A microfluidic device as recited in claim 3, wherein the number of contacts is related to the number of said components by the formula, 2 N. 5. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein at least one of the components comprises a resistive heating element. 6. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, further comprising at least one independently controllable resistive sensing element having at least two terminals wherein the resistive sensing element is in thermal communication with one of the components. 7. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein at least one of said independently controllable components comprises a plurality of sub-components that are all activated by said external controller using the unique combination of contacts associated with said at least one independently controllable components. 8. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein the device includes a plurality of current flow directional elements, wherein each current flow directional element is configured to allow current to flow in essentially only one direction through one of the components. 9. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein at least one of the one or more components comprises a thermally actuated valve and at least one independently controllable heating element is in thermal communication with the thermally actuated valve. 10. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein at least one of the one or more components comprises a thermally actuated pump comprising a volume of fluid, whereby actuation of a heating element in thermal communication with the thermally actuated pump heats the fluid and actuates the thermally actuated pump. 11. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 8, wherein the current flow directional elements comprise diodes. 12. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 8, wherein the current flow directional elements are formed by microfabrication on the substrate. 13. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 8, wherein one or more of the current flow directional elements are disposed in series with one or more of the components. 14. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein at least one of the one or more components comprises a microfabricated reaction chamber. 15. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 14, wherein a material is present in the at least one microfabricated reaction chamber, whereby actuation of a heating element in thermal communication with the microfabricated reaction chamber raises a temperature of the material. 16. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 14, wherein the device is configured to perform a polymerase chain reaction in the microfabricated reaction chamber. 17. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 6, wherein the at least one resistive sensing element is configured to sense a temperature of a material within the device. 18. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 8, wherein an electrical pathway between each contact and at least one terminal of each component comprises a current flow directional element. 19. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 18, wherein each component comprises a corresponding current flow directional element. 20. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein the substrate comprises a first substrate that defines components, and wherein the device further comprises a second substrate, the first substrate being separate from the second substrate and wherein the first substrate can mate with the second substrate to place at least one heating element in thermal communication with one of the one or more components. 21. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 3, wherein the leads connecting the terminals to the contacts are organized into virtual rows and virtual columns to create a virtual array. 22. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 21, wherein components assigned to the same virtual row or virtual column share a common lead. 23. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 21, wherein no two or more components share both a common virtual row and, common virtual column. 24. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the components comprises a reaction chamber. 25. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 24, wherein a material is present in the at least one reaction chamber, whereby actuation of a heating element in thermal communication with the reaction chamber raises a temperature of the material. 26. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 24, wherein the device is configured to perform a polymerase chain reaction in the microfabricated reaction chamber. 27. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more components comprises a thermally actuated valve in thermal communication with at least one independently controllable heating element. 