An apparatus provides selective communication between multiple programmable robot controllers and one or more teaching devices connected by a network. The network controls communication between the teaching devices and the controllers including active tasks and passive tasks for preventing communication of active tasks between any of the controllers and more than one of any of the teaching devices. The network permits communication of the passive tasks between any of the controllers and one of the teaching devices communicating active tasks with another one of the controllers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multiple robot system comprising: at least two teaching devices; at least two programmable controllers each connected to an associated robot; and a network connected between said at least two programmable controllers and said at least two teaching devices for facilitating flexible communication between each of them, wherein each of said at least two teaching devices can display information related to and operate each of said at least two programmable controllers and wherein said network prevents operation of one of said at least two programmable controllers by one of said at least two teaching devices when another one of said at least two teaching devices is in communication with said one of said at least two programmable controllers for performing active tasks. 2. The multiple robot system according to claim 1 wherein said network permits one of said at least two teaching devices to perform passive tasks with one of said at least two controllers in communication with another one of said teaching devices for performing active tasks. 3. The multiple robot system according to claim 1 wherein said network permits communication between one of said at least two controllers and only one of said at least two teaching devices at a time for jogging and running programs. 4. The multiple robot system according to claim 1 wherein each of said at least two teaching devices includes a display for visually indicating information related to each of said at least two controllers. 5. The multiple robot system according to claim 4 wherein each of said at least two controllers is represented by a different icon on said display. 6. The multiple robot system according to claim 1 wherein each of said at least two controllers is selected from an associated link on said displays. 7. The multiple robot system according to claim 1 wherein said network will stop the robots connected to said at least two controllers if there is a loss of connection between one of said at least two teaching devices and one of said at least two controllers while jogging and running programs. 8. The multiple robot system according to claim 1 including a default controller connected to said network whereby when one of said at least two controllers is shut down or removed during active task communication with one of said at least two teaching devices, said network connects said default controller to said one of said at least two teaching devices. 9. The multiple robot system according claim 1 wherein when one of said at least two teaching devices is communicating with one of said at least two controllers for active tasks, said network permits said one of said at least two teaching devices to communicate with another one of said at least two controllers for passive tasks. 10. A method for controlling multiple robot controllers comprising the steps of: a) providing a communications network; b) connecting at least two robot controllers to the network; c) connecting at least two teaching devices to the network; and d) selectively communicating between each of the teaching devices and the at least two robot controllers for performing active tasks and passive tasks, wherein the network prevents operation of one of the at least two robot controllers by one of the at least two teaching devices when another one of the at least two teaching devices is in communication with the one of the at least two robot controllers for performing active tasks. 11. The method according to claim 10 including a step of displaying at one of the teaching devices an, operating menu of each of the at least two controllers communicating with the one teaching device. 12. The method according to claim 10 wherein the network prevents another teaching device connected to the network from communicating active tasks to one of the controllers performing the active tasks in communication with one of the teaching devices. 13. The method according to claim 10 including displaying at one of the teaching devices an indication of each of the at least two controllers communicating with the one teaching device. 14. The method according to claim 10 wherein a robot connected to one of the at least two controllers is stopped if a loss of connection occurs between one of the teaching devices and the one of the at least two controllers during communication of active tasks. 15. The method according to claim 10 wherein the network causes one of the teaching devices to connect to a default controller if a one of the at least two controllers is shutdown or removed from the network during communication with the one teaching device. 16. The method according to claim 10 wherein the network permits the teaching devices to communicate active tasks with one of the at least two controllers while communicating passive tasks with another one of the at least two controllers. 17. A system for communication between multiple programmable robot controllers and multiple teaching devices: at least two programmable robot controllers; at least two teaching devices; and a network for selective communication between said at least two teaching devices and said at least two controllers, said network including active task portions and passive task portions for preventing communication of active tasks between any of said at least two controllers and more than one of any of said teaching devices, wherein said network prevents operation of one of said at least two robot controllers by one of said at least two teaching devices when another one of said at least two teaching devices is in communication with said one of said at least two robot controllers for performing active tasks. 