A ratcheting end-of-arm (EOM) tool having a spring-loaded level compensator, a distally mounted gripper, and a ratcheting mechanism. In operation, upon a selectively adequate contact between the gripper and a payload, the ratcheting mechanism is engaged which holds the position of the gripper with respect to the robot arm at a fixed position, independent of spring biasing. Upon conclusion of robotic movement of the payload, the gripper is deactivated, the ratcheting mechanism is disengaged, and the spring returns the ratcheting EOA tool to its nominal configuration.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A ratcheting end-of-arm tool for robotic arms, comprising: a level compensator comprising: a housing; a shaft slidably mounted to said housing; a gripper mounted to a distal end of said shaft; a shaft spring biasing said shaft with respect to said housing such that said distal end of said shaft is biased away from said housing; and a ratcheting mechanism, comprising: said shaft having a plurality of slots formed therein; a detent; and a detent movement agency to selectively locate the detent in a slot of said plurality of slots in order to lock position of the shaft with respect to the housing; wherein said detent movement agency comprises: said detent being composed of a magnetic material; a detent spring biasing said detent toward said shaft; and a solenoid which when energized magnetically pulls said detent away from said shaft, overcoming the biasing of said detent spring. 2. The ratcheting end of arm tool of claim 1, wherein the gripper is adapted to grip payloads; further comprising a gripper actuator which selectively actuates gripping of the payloads by the gripper. 3. A tool gang assembly for a robotic arm, comprising: a tool fixture adapted for connection to a robotic arm; a plurality of ratcheting end-of-arm tools connected to said tool fixture, each ratcheting end-of-arm tool comprising: a level compensator comprising: a housing; a shaft slidably mounted to said housing; a gripper mounted to a distal end of said shaft; a shaft spring biasing said shaft with respect to said housing such that said distal end of said shaft is biased away from said housing; and a ratcheting mechanism, comprising: said shaft having a plurality of slots formed therein; a detent; and a detent movement agency to selectively locate the detent in a slot of said plurality of slots in order to lock position of the shaft with respect to the housing. 4. The tool gang assembly of claim 3, wherein said detent movement agency comprises: said detent being composed of a magnetic material; a detent spring biasing said detent toward said shaft; and a solenoid which when energized magnetically pulls said detent away from said shaft, overcoming the biasing of said detent spring. 5. The tool gang assembly of claim 4, wherein the gripper is adapted to grip payloads; further comprising a gripper actuator which selectively actuates gripping of the payloads by the gripper. 6. A method of operating an end-of-arm tool of a robotic arm, comprising the steps of: connecting a gripper to a shaft; slidably connecting the shaft to a robotic arm; biasing the shaft; maneuvering the gripper into contact with a payload; pressing the at gripper against the payload against the direction of biasing of the shaft, wherein the shaft slides with respect to the connection of the gripper to the shaft; locking positional movement of the shaft with respect to the connection; gripping the payload by the gripper; moving the payload via movement of the robotic arm; unlocking the positional movement of the shaft with respect to the connection; and releasing the gripping of the payload by the gripper; wherein the payload is gripped and grippingly released by a plurality of grippers, wherein said steps of locking and unlocking are performed independently with respect to each gripper of the plurality of grippers. 