A method for laser surface cleaning of a target surface that has limited or no access to the environment directly above the surface to be cleaned. The method includes the ability to clean the surface with a reduced risk of substrate damage. The method includes direct laser excitation of a contaminated substrate surface and thermal transfer from the substrate to the contaminating particulate or contamination layer. The method also includes producing a thermally based removal and reducing a risk of substrate damage by keeping the temperature required to produce surface cleaning below the thermal damage level of the substrate material. In addition, the method includes reducing the risk of substrate damage by utilizing relatively long pulse-widths, providing for improved removal of small contaminants/particles, and directing the beam through a material disposed relative to the surface that is part of the substrates environmental enclosure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for laser surface cleaning, the method comprising: directing a laser towards a substrate with a contaminant, the substrate including a surface upon which a patterned, thin film layer is disposed such that portions of the surface have no thin film coating; producing a first local thermal increase in said substrate surface with said laser such that a temperature of the substrate surface and a temperature of the thin film layer are similar at the locality; inducing a second thermal increase in said contaminant at the locality due to said first thermal increase in said substrate surface; and producing a thermal decomposition of said contaminant. 2. The method in claim 1 in which said substrate's temperature remains below a temperature in which damage or detrimental effects will occur to said substrate. 3. The method in claim 1 in which said substrate's temperature remains below a temperature in which damage or detrimental effect will occur to materials disposed relative to the substrate. 4. The method of claim 1 in which said substrate's temperature remains below a temperature in which damage or detrimental effect will occur to a device or a product that incorporates said substrate. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the method is a dry laser surface cleaning method. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the substrate is a photomask. 7. The method in claim 1 in which the laser's output is pulsed. 8. The method in claim 1 in which the laser's output is pulse width varied. 9. The method in claim 1 in which the substrate is partially or completely enclosed or protected by a pellicle. 10. The method in claim 1 in which the laser is directed through a material disposed relative to the substrate. 11. The method in claim 1 in which the laser's wavelength is selected to permit absorption of the laser's energy by the substrate. 12. The method of claim 1 in which one or more lasers of different wavelengths or a tunable laser is utilized thereby permitting heating of the substrate when the substrate is composed of at least two materials. 13. The method in claim 1 in which a heat sink is positioned adjacent to the substrate to permit cooling. 14. The method in claim 1 in which the substrate is physically manipulated or oriented to mitigate the effects of residual or resultant materials. 15. The method of claim 1 in which the substrate is cooled via convection. 16. The method of claim 1 in which one or more metrologies are used in conjunction with the cleaning process. 17. The method in claim 1 in which the laser contributes directly to the thermal increase in the contaminant. 18. A method for mitigating the effects of contamination on a substrate including a surface upon which a patterned, thin film layer is disposed such that portions of the surface have no thin film coating, the method comprising: employing an energy source to produce a first local thermal increase in said substrate surface, such that a temperature of the substrate surface and a temperature of the thin film layer are similar at the locality, which induces a second thermal increase in said contaminant at the locality resulting in thermal decomposition of said contaminant. 19. The method in claim 18, wherein the energy source is external to the substrate. 20. The method in claim 18, wherein the energy source is an electromagnetic energy source. 21. The method in claim 18 wherein the energy source is a laser. 22. The method in claim 18 in which the substrate's temperature remains below a temperature in which damage or detrimental effect will occur to the substrate. 23. The method in claim 18 in which the substrate's temperature remains below a temperature in which damage or detrimental effect will occur to materials disposed relative to the substrate. 24. The method of claim 18 in which the substrate's temperature remains below a temperature in which damage or detrimental effect will occur to a device or product that utilizes the substrate. 25. The method of claim 18 wherein the substrate surface is dry. 26. The method of claim 18 wherein the substrate is a photomask. 27. The method in claim 18 in which a heat sink is positioned adjacent to the substrate to permit cooling. 28. The method in claim 18 in which the external energy source contributes directly to the thermal increase in the contaminant. 29. The method of claim 18 in which one or more metrologies are used. 30. The method in claim 18 in which the substrate is physically manipulated or oriented to mitigate the effects of residual or resultant materials. 31. A method for mitigating the effects of contamination on a substrate including a surface upon which a patterned, thin film layer is disposed such that portions of the surface have no thin film coating, the method comprising: directing an energy source through a material disposed relative to the contaminant to produce a first local thermal increase in said substrate surface, such that a temperature of the substrate surface and a temperature of the thin film layer are similar at the locality, which induces a second thermal increase in said contaminant at the locality resulting in thermal decomposition of said contaminant. 32. The method in claim 31 wherein the energy source is focused toward the substrate surface. 33. The method in claim 31, wherein the energy is provided by an electromagnetic energy source. 34. The method in claim 31 wherein the energy source is a laser. 35. The method of claim 34 in which the laser's output is pulsed. 36. The method of claim 34 in which the laser's pulsed output is width varied. 37. The method of claim 34 in which the laser's wavelength is selected to permit absorption of the laser's energy by the substrate's surface. 38. The method of claim 34 wherein the substrate is a photomask. 39. The method of claim 31 wherein the material disposed relative to the contaminated surface is a pellicle frame and film. 40. The method of claim 31 wherein the material disposed relative to the contaminated surface absorbs energy from the external energy source. 41. The method of claim 31 wherein a means for reducing thermal increase in the material disposed relative to the contaminated surface is provided. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the means is a form of forced convection. 43. The method in claim 31 in which the substrate is physically manipulated or oriented to mitigate the effects of residual or resultant materials. 