A centrifugal workpiece processor for processing semiconductor wafers and similar workpieces includes a head which holds and spins the workpiece. The head includes a rotor having a gas system. Gas is sprayed or jetted from inlets in the rotor to create a rotational gas flow. The rotational gas flow causes pressure conditions which hold the edges of a first side of the workpiece against contact pins on the rotor. The rotor and the workpiece rotate together. Guide pins adjacent to a perimeter may help to align the workpiece with the rotor. The rotor may have cylindrical side walls joined to a top plate, and with the gas inlets located in the cylindrical sidewalls. The head is moveable into engagement with a bowl. Spray nozzles in the bowl spray a process liquid onto the second side of the workpiece, as the workpiece is spinning, to process the workpiece.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A workpiece processor, comprising: a bowl having one or more process fluid inlets; a head configured to engage with the bowl during workpiece processing; a rotor configured to hold a workpiece and having an annular sidewall around a perimeter of the rotor, with the rotor supported on the head and rotatable relative to the head; a pressurized gas inlet line on the rotor; and a plurality of gas inlets in the annular sidewall of the rotor, above the workpiece, with the inlets connected to the gas inlet line on the rotor and oriented to spray pressurized gas above an outer area of the workpiece in a direction at least partially tangent to the annular sidewall of the rotor, and with the spray of gas above the workpiece acting to hold the outer area of the workpiece onto the rotor. 2. The processor of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of gas nozzles in the annular sidewall oriented at least partially tangent to the annular sidewall. 3. The processor of claim 1 further comprising guide pins adjacent to a perimeter of the rotor. 4. The processor of claim 1 with the rotor including a drive plate and a chuck plate attached to the drive plate, and a gas flow path between the drive plate and the chuck plate. 5. The processor of claim 4 further comprising a seal between the drive plate and the chuck plate. 6. The processor of claim 4 further comprising a central opening in the chuck plate. 7. The processor of claim 1 further comprising process fluid inlets in the bowl positioned to spray a process liquid in a substantially straight line onto substantially all surfaces of a down facing side of a workpiece held in the rotor. 8. The processor of claim 1 further including guide pins on an outer perimeter of the rotor, with a workpiece holding position formed on the rotor inside of the guide pins, and with the guide pins extending from the rotor in a direction towards the bowl when the processor is in a processing position. 9. The processor of claim 1 with gas inlets oriented to spray pressurized gas in a direction within 30 degrees of a tangent of the sidewall of the rotor. 10. A centrifugal workpiece processor, comprising: a base having one or more process liquid inlets; a head movable onto the base; a rotor on the head having a plate and side walls joined to the plate; means for rotating the rotor; partial vacuum creating means associated with the rotor for creating a partial vacuum adjacent to the sidewalls of the rotor, for holding an annular edge area of the workpiece into the rotor with no moving parts, via rotational gas flow. 11. The processor of claim 10 further comprising guide means associated with the rotor for maintaining a workpiece substantially aligned with the rotor. 12. The processor of claim 10 further comprising pins on a down-facing surface of the rotor, and with the holding means holding the workpiece into the rotor, and with the workpiece contacting only the pins and no other element of the rotor. 13. A workpiece processor, comprising: a bowl having one or more process fluid inlets; a head configured to engage with the bowl during workpiece processing; a single rotor in the processor, with the rotor supported on the head and rotatable relative to the head; a pressurized gas supply line in the rotor; a plurality of gas inlets in the rotor at a perimeter of the rotor, with the inlets connected to the gas supply line and oriented to spray pressurized gas in a direction at least partially tangent to the sidewall of the rotor; a plurality of circumferentially spaced apart pins adjacent to a perimeter of the lower surface of the rotor, and with the rotor configured to support a workpiece at a vertical position between the gas outlets and the bowl during processing with only the pins of the rotor contacting the back side of the workpiece when the workpiece is in a processing position in the rotor; and with the rotor configured to hold the workpiece regardless of the orientation of the rotor relative to gravity, by providing reduced gas pressure above the workpiece. 14. The processor of claim 13 with gas inlets oriented to spray pressurized gas in a direction within 30 degrees of a tangent of the sidewall of the rotor. 15. A workpiece processor, comprising: a bowl having one or more process fluid inlets; a head; a head lifter attached to the head; a rotor in the head having an outer perimeter and an annular outer sidewall around the outer perimeter; a plurality of gas inlet nozzles in the annular sidewall of the rotor with the nozzles oriented to spray pressurized gas in a direction at least partially tangent to the annular sidewall of the rotor, and with the spray of gas having a higher velocity and lower pressure adjacent to the annular sidewall of the rotor and a lower velocity and a higher pressure adjacent to the center of the rotor, to hold the outer area of the workpiece onto the rotor. 