Methods and apparatus are provided for evaluating tread depth on at least one tire. One or more laser scanners are positioned at an offset position from a tire path of the at least one tire. A profile of the at least one tire is obtained and the tread depth is determined from the profile. Additional information, such as identifying information and mileage information, can optionally be obtained from the at least one tire.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluating tread depth on at least one tire, comprising: positioning one or more laser scanners at an offset position from a tire path of said at least one tire; obtaining a profile of said at least one tire; and determining said tread depth from said profile. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of obtaining identifying information from said at least one tire. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said identifying information is obtained from an RFID tag associated with said at least one tire. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of obtaining mileage information from said at least one tire. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said mileage information is obtained by reading an odometer. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said laser scanners are in a non-contact position relative to said at least one tire. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining step further comprises the step of obtaining a difference between a minimum and maximum height of said tread. 8. An integrated tire sensor system for evaluating tread depth on at least one tire, comprising: one or more laser scanners positioned at an offset position from a tire path of said at least one tire; a memory; and at least one processor, coupled to the memory, operative to: obtain a profile of said at least one tire; and determine said tread depth from said profile. 9. The integrated tire sensor system of claim 8, wherein said processor is further configured to obtain identifying information from said at least one tire. 10. The integrated tire sensor system of claim 8, wherein said identifying information is obtained from an RFID tag associated with said at least one tire. 11. The integrated tire sensor system of claim 8, wherein said processor is further configured to obtain mileage information from said at least one tire. 12. The integrated tire sensor system of claim 11, wherein said mileage information is obtained by reading an odometer. 13. The integrated tire sensor system of claim 8, wherein said laser scanners are in a non-contact position relative to said at least one tire. 14. The integrated tire sensor system of claim 8, wherein said processor is further configured to obtain a difference between a minimum and maximum height of said tread. 15. The integrated tire sensor system of claim 8, wherein said at least one tire is a truck tire. 16. An article of manufacture for evaluating tread depth on at least one tire, comprising a machine readable storage medium containing one or more programs which when executed implement the steps of: positioning one or more laser scanners at an offset position from a tire path of said at least one tire; obtaining a profile of said at least one tire; and determining said tread depth from said profile. 17. The article of manufacture of claim 16, further comprising the step of obtaining identifying information from said at least one tire. 18. The article of manufacture of claim 16, further comprising the step of obtaining mileage information from said at least one tire. 19. The article of manufacture of claim 16, wherein said determining step further comprises the step of obtaining a difference between a minimum and maximum height of said tread. 