A robotic cart pulling vehicle includes a positioning error reducing system for reducing accumulated error in the ded-reckoning navigational system. The positioning error reducing system including at least one of a low load transfer point of the cart attaching mechanism, a floor variation compliance structure whereby the drive wheels maintain a substantially even distribution of load over minor surface variations, a minimal wheel contact surface structure, a calibration structure using at least one proximity sensor mounted on the robot body, and a common electrical and mechanical connection between the cart and the robot vehicle formed by a cart attaching post.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic cart pulling vehicle, comprising: a body; a first drive wheel connected to the body; a second drive wheel connected to the body, wherein: at least one of the first and second drive wheels comprises a hardened annular disk having a urethane coating formed thereover; a width of a contact patch of the first drive wheel is less than 1.5% of a distance from the first drive wheel to the second drive wheel; and a center of the first drive wheel and a center of the second drive wheel define an axis therebetween; and a cart attachment mechanism defined at least in part by the body, wherein: the cart attachment mechanism is centered between the first and second drive wheels; the cart attachment mechanism intersects the axis; and at least a portion of the cart attachment mechanism is below the axis. 2. The robotic cart pulling vehicle of claim 1, wherein a width of a contact patch of the first drive wheel is less than 1% of a distance from the first drive wheel to the second drive wheel. 3. The robotic cart pulling vehicle of claim 1, wherein the cart attachment mechanism is configured for receiving a cart attaching post. 4. The robotic cart pulling vehicle of claim 1, wherein the cart attachment mechanism comprises a bushing. 5. The robotic cart pulling vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a housing connected to the body. 6. The robotic cart pulling vehicle of claim 5, wherein the cart attachment mechanism is defined at least in part by the housing. 7. The robotic cart pulling vehicle of claim 5, further comprising a sensor positioned within the housing. 8. The robotic cart pulling vehicle of claim 7, wherein the sensor is an infrared sensor. 9. A system, comprising: a robotic cart pulling vehicle, wherein the robotic cart pulling vehicle comprises: a body; a first drive wheel connected to the body; a second drive wheel connected to the body, wherein a center of the first drive wheel and a center of the second drive wheel define an axis therebetween; and a cart attachment mechanism defined at least in part by the body, wherein: the cart attachment mechanism is centered between the first and second drive wheels; the cart attachment mechanism intersects the axis; and at least a portion of the cart attachment mechanism is below the axis; and a cart attaching post positioned within the cart attachment mechanism. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the robotic cart pulling vehicle is rotatably connected to the cart attaching post. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein at least one of the first and second drive wheels is movable relative to the cart attaching post such that the axis is not perpendicular to the cart attaching post. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the cart attaching post forms the following between a cart and the robotic cart pulling vehicle: a mechanical connection; and an electrical connection. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the cart attaching post comprises: a tube; at least one conductive ring which surrounds the tube; and a contact electrically connected to at least one of the following: the tube; and the at least one conductive ring. 