A robotic arm assembly is provided comprising a driving mechanism including a rotor which is rotatable relative to a stator. The rotor is coaxially rotatable about a columnar shaft having a substantially hollow central longitudinal axis. A first arm having proximal and distal pivotal ends is rigidly mounted on the rotor such that the first arm is drivable to rotate by the driving mechanism. A proximal pivotal end of a second arm having proximal and distal pivotal ends is pivotally connected to the proximal pivotal end of the first arm. A first timing pulley is mounted coaxially onto the columnar shaft, and a second timing pulley which is spaced from the first pulley is drivable to rotate together with rotation of the first arm. A timing belt connects the first and second timing pulleys and is operative to rotate the second arm relative to the first arm as the first arm is driven to rotate by the driving mechanism, such that the distal pivotal ends of the first and second arms are configured to always lie along a substantially straight line.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic arm assembly comprising: a hollow columnar shaft; a driving mechanism including a rotor and a stator, the rotor being rotatable relative to the stator, and the rotor defining an interior coaxial space in which to coaxially receive the hollow columnar shaft, so that the rotor is coaxially rotatable around the columnar shaft; a first arm having proximal and distal pivotal ends rigidly mounted on the rotor such that the first arm is drivable to rotate by the driving mechanism; a second arm having proximal and distal pivotal ends, the proximal pivotal end of the second arm being pivotally connected to the proximal pivotal end of the first arm; a first timing pulley mounted coaxially onto the columnar shaft; a second timing pulley spaced from the first timing pulley which is drivable to rotate together with rotation of the first arm; and a timing belt connecting the first and second timing pulleys that is operative to rotate the second arm relative to the first arm as the first arm is driven to rotate by the driving mechanism, such that the distal pivotal ends of the first and second arms are configured to always lie along a substantially straight line. 2. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a relatively stationary base, about which the first and second arms rotate. 3. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the driving mechanism is located at the base. 4. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein the first and second timing pulleys are housed in the first arm, and the second timing pulley is located at the proximal pivotal end of the first arm. 5. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 4, further comprising an end-effector located at the distal pivotal end of the second arm. 6. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 4, further comprising third and fourth timing pulleys located at respective proximal and distal pivotal ends of the second arm and a timing belt connecting them, wherein the third timing pulley is coaxial with the second timing pulley. 7. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 3, further comprising a universal motor at the base on which the driving mechanism is mounted. 8. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 7, wherein the universal motor comprises a universal rotor which is rotatable relative to a universal stator, the universal rotor being mounted onto a hollow universal columnar shaft. 9. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 8, wherein the universal rotor is mounted directly onto side walls of the universal columnar shaft and is surrounded by the universal stator. 10. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the driving mechanism is located at the proximal pivotal end of the second arm and the base is located at the distal pivotal end of the second arm, and wherein the columnar shaft is rigidly coupled to the second arm. 11. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 10, wherein the first and second timing pulleys are housed in the first arm, and the second timing pulley is located at a distal pivotal end of the first arm. 12. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 11, further comprising third and fourth timing pulleys located at respective proximal and distal pivotal ends of the second arm and a timing belt connecting them, wherein the third timing pulley is coaxial with the columnar shaft and first timing pulley. 13. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 10, further comprising a universal motor at the base on which the second arm is mounted. 14. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 13, wherein the universal motor comprises a universal rotor mounted directly onto side walls of a hollow universal columnar shaft and is surrounded by a universal stator. 15. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 14, further comprising electrical and service lines housed within the hollow universal columnar shaft. 16. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rotor surrounds the columnar shaft and the rotor is surrounded by the stator. 17. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 1, further comprising electrical and service lines housed within the hollow columnar shaft. 18. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein a distance between the proximal and distal pivotal ends of the first arm is substantially equal to a distance between the proximal and distal pivotal ends of the second arm. 19. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 18, wherein the first and second arms are of substantially equal length. 20. The robotic arm assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein an angle between the first arm and the second arm is always maintained at twice the angle between the first arm and the substantially straight line. 