Certain embodiments of one aspect relates to inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the least the portion of the at least one individual. The aspect can include X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing within the at least some matter of the least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially in response to the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least some matter of the least the portion of the at least one individual. Certain embodiments of the aspect can include providing a substantial real time tool-based operation to the at least some matter of the least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially relying on the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing within the at least some matter of the least the portion of the at least one individual.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; X-ray fluorescence imaging substantially based on an amount of at least one selected element within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially in response to the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; and providing a substantial real time tool-based operation to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially relying on the X-ray fluorescence imaging within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is provided at an operationally relevant portion of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is provided at an operationally relevant portion of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual and wherein the operationally relevant portion concerns the proximity of the substantial real time tool-based operation to a sensitive area of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is provided at an operationally relevant portion of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual and wherein the operationally relevant portion concerns the proximity of the substantial real time tool-based operation altering blood flow to a critical region of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is provided at an operationally relevant portion of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual and wherein the operationally relevant portion concerns the proximity of the substantial real time tool-based operation causing too much pressure or kinking, which leads to a physical, chemical, or functional alteration of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is provided at an operationally relevant portion of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual and wherein the operationally relevant portion concerns the manipulation effects of the substantial real time tool-based operation can affect tissue oxygenation or CO2 retention of the to a sensitive area of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is performed at a rate sufficient to substantially capture a physical motion that is consistent with an individual-based physiological process. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is performed at a rate sufficient to substantially capture a physical motion that is consistent with a user-observable physiological process. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is at least partially performed in a manner to limit contacting or close proximity during the substantial real time tool-based operation of a tool with sensitive regions or areas of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing a substantial real time tool-based operation is at least partially performed by at least one from a tool group, the tool group involves at least one of at least one scalpel, at least one cutter, at least one laser cutter, at least one tactile feedback provider, at least one ablator, at least one scope, at least one Bovie electrocautery device, at least one material adding tool, at least one material removing tool, at least one tissue manipulator, at least one implant applier, at least one screw, at least one clip, at least one pin, or at least one suture. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging provides information concerning at least some matter concentration of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging provides information concerning at least some matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging is performed on a position-by-position basis within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some X-rays. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some gamma rays. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some electrons. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some ions. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging occurs at least partially to a prescribed fluorescence imaging depth within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging occurs at least partially to a range of fluorescence imaging depths within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging occurs at least partially based on scintillation. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one individual includes at least one from a group of individuals, the group of individuals includes at least one of a human, an animal, an organism, and/or a plant. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially includes a group of matter, the group of matter includes at least one from at least one tissue, at least one bodily fluid, at least a portion of a bone, a boney portion, or at least one bone portion or bone fragment, at least a tooth, or a portion thereof, or an at least partially internal insert. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging further comprises: anatomical X-ray fluorescence imaging. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging further comprises: functional X-ray fluorescence imaging. 25. An apparatus, comprising: an X-ray fluorescence imager configured to induce at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual; the X-ray fluorescence imager configured to X-ray fluorescence image substantially based on an amount of at least one selected element within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially responsive to the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; and a tool portion configured to provide at least one substantial real time tool-based operation to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially responsive to the X-ray fluorescence imagerer configured to X-ray fluorescence image within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imager is configured to X-ray fluorescence image within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at a rate sufficient to substantially capture a physical motion that is consistent with an individual-based physiological process. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imager is configured to X-ray fluorescence image within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at a rate sufficient to substantially capture a physical motion that is consistent with a user-observable physiological process. 28. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imager is configured to X-ray fluorescence image within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially a manner to limit contacting or close proximity during the substantial real time tool-based operation by the tool portion with sensitive regions or areas in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 29. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the tool portion comprises at least one tool from a tool group, the tool group includes at least one of an at least one scalpel, an at least one cutter, an at least one laser cutter, an at least one tactile feedback provider, an at least one ablator, an at least one scope, an at least one Bovie electrocautery device, an at least one material adding tool, or an at least one material removing tool, an at least one tissue manipulator, an at least one implant applier, an at least one screw, an at least one clip, an at least one pin, or an at least one suture. 30. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imager is configured to determine at least some matter concentration of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 31. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imager is configured to determine at least some matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 32. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the at least some input energy has an energy of greater than or equal to b 1 KeV, 10 KeV, or 100 KeV. 33. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein at least a portion of the X-ray fluorescence imager relies at least partially upon energy applied from an energy accumulator. 34. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imager includes an X-ray based emissive structure. 35. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein at least some operative portion of the X-ray fluorescence imager is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 36. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein at lest some operative portion of the X-ray fluorescence imager is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 37. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein an intensity of the X-ray fluorescence imager is controllable. 38. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the tool portion and the X-ray fluorescence imager are comounted. 39. A apparatus, comprising: an X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means for inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at a fluorescence location within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; an X-ray fluorescence imaging means for X-ray fluorescence imaging substantially based on an amount of at least one selected element within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially in response to the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means; and a tool means for providing a substantial real time tool-based operation to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially responsive to the X-ray fluorescence imaging means. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein at least a portion of the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means relies at least partially upon energy applied from an energy accumulator. 41. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means includes an X-ray based emissive structure. 42. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means includes an electron emissive structure. 43. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means includes an ion emissive structure. 44. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein an at least one operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 45. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein an at least an operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 46. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein at least an operative characteristic of the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means is controllable. 47. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein an at least one intensity of the at least some input energy applied by the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means is controllable. 48. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein an at least one timing of the at least some input energy applied by the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means is controllable. 49. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein an at least one energy of the at least some input energy applied by the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means is controllable. 50. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein an at least one location of the at least some input energy applied by the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means is controllable. 51. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein an at least one direction of the at least some input energy applied by the X-ray fluorescing photon inducing means is controllable. 52. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging means comprises at least one energy level detector. 53. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging means comprises at least one photodetector. 54. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein the X-ray fluorescence imaging means comprises at least one X-ray spectrometer. 