A system includes an end effector, a robotic wrist for orienting the end effector; and a robotic arm for positioning the end effector. The robotic arm is foldable into a stack. The robotic wrist is mounted to a last link of the robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for positioning an end effector inside a confined space that is accessible only through an access port, the system comprising: a robotic arm having multiple links and a parallel-axis joint layout such that the links can be folded into a compact configuration with links stacked on top of each other; a robotic wrist mounted to a last link of the robotic arm; an end effector mounted to the robotic wrist; and fine positioner modules attached to opposite sides of the end effector; the robotic arm for positioning the end effector, the robotic wrist for orienting the end effector, the fine positioner modules for performing fine adjustment of the end effector along a surface of the confined space to correct for positional errors of the arm and wrist. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is foldable into a coextensive stack. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for positioning, lifting and tilting the robotic arm to fit through an access port. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising a carriage assembly for moving the system to the access port. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the robotic wrist mimics a spherical wrist having three degrees of freedom; and wherein all rotational axes of the wrist intersect at a common point. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein each fine postitioner module includes: a contact member for making contact with the surface of the confined space; a position adjustor for causing the contact member to move the end effector along the surface; and an actuator for relieving pressure of the end effector against the surface while the contact member is used to move the end effector along the surface. 7. A method comprising operating the robotic system of claim 1 to position the end effector within the confined space, wherein operating the robotic system includes: folding the robotic arm such that its links are stacked on top of each other; maneuvering the folded arm through the access port and into the confined space; at least partially unfolding the arm within the confined space; using the arm and the robotic wrist to position and orient the end effector over a target within the confined space; and using the fine positioner module to correct for positional errors of the arm and wrist. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising stowing the robotic wrist and end effector on a last link of the folded robotic arm prior to maneuvering the folded arm through the access port. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the robotic wrist mimics a spherical wrist having three degrees of freedom; and wherein all rotational axes of the wrist intersect at a common point. 10. The system of claim 1,wherein the fine positioner modules position the end effector while the arm and wrist are pressing the end effector against the surface. 