Control systems and methods are disclosed for controlling operation of movable systems in an automated process with a stationary system having a first control system component and at least one movable system having a second control system component, in which optical or other non-contacting signaling between the stationary and movable systems is used to ascertain whether a movable system is proximate the stationary system, and wireless communications is used to transfer control data between the systems while the non-contacting signal link is maintained.
Claims Having thus described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A control system for controlling operation of a movable system, the control system comprising: a wireless communications component associated with a stationary system; a non-contacting signaling component associated with the stationary system and operative to transmit or receive a signal in a signal path proximate the stationary system; a control system component associated with the stationary system and operatively coupled with the non-contacting signaling component and with the wireless communications component, the control system component using the non-contacting signaling system to verify whether a movable system is proximate the stationary system and using the wireless communications component to provide control information to a second control system component associated with a particular movable system to control at least one positioning actuator of the particular movable system to control a position of a workpiece transported by the particular movable system while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system; and wherein the moveable system is a robotic moving platform. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the signal is an optical signal. 3. The control system of claim 2, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises an optical transmitter operative to transmit the optical signal in the signal path proximate the stationary system. 4. The control signal of claim 3, wherein the optical signal is modulated by the optical transmitter to include an identifier unique to the stationary system and wherein the control system component verifies that the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system based on wireless communications from the particular movable system that includes the identifier. 5. The control system of claim 1, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises a transmitter operative to transmit the signal in the signal path proximate the stationary system. 6. The control signal of claim 5, wherein the signal is modulated by the transmitter. 7. The control system of claim 1, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises a receiver operative to receive the signal in the signal path from a movable system proximate the stationary system. 8. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control system component is operative to assign an identifier to the particular movable system by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 9. The control system of claim 8, wherein the particular movable system is operative to provide a previously assigned identifier to the control system component by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 10. The control system of claim 1, wherein the particular movable system is operative to provide an identifier to the control system component by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 11. A movable system for performing at least one controlled operation while proximate a stationary system, comprising: a wireless communications component; a non-contacting signaling component associated with the movable system and operative to transmit or receive a signal in a signal path proximate a particular stationary system while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system; a control system component associated with the movable system and operatively coupled with the non-contacting signaling component and with the wireless communications component, the control system component using the non-contacting signaling system to verify whether the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system and using the wireless communications component to receive control information from a second control system component associated with the particular stationary system while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system; at least one positioning actuator operated by the control system component according to the control information received from the particular stationary system to control a location of a workpiece transported by the movable system; and wherein the moveable system is a robotic moving platform. 12. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises a receiver operative to receive the signal from the signal path while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system. 13. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the signal is an optical signal. 14. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the signal is modulated. 15. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the control system component is operative to receive an identifier from the particular stationary system by wireless communications while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system. 16. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the control system component is operative to provide a previously assigned identifier to the particular stationary system by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 17. In an automated system having at least one stationary system with a first control system component and at least one movable system having a second control system component and a positioning actuator, a method for controlling at least one operation of the movable system while proximate the stationary system, the method comprising: determining whether the movable system is currently proximate the stationary system using non-contacting signaling apparatus on the stationary and movable systems; transferring control information between the first control system component of the stationary system and the second control system component of the movable system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system; controlling the positioning actuator of the movable system to control a location of a workpiece transported by the movable system according to the control information transferred between the first control system component of the stationary system and the second control system component of the movable system; discontinuing transfer of control information between the control system components of the stationary and movable systems when the movable system is determined to be no longer proximate the stationary system; and wherein the moveable system is a robotic moving platform. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein determining whether the movable system is currently proximate the stationary system comprises: transmitting an optical signal by a first one of the stationary system and the movable system; and determining that the movable system is currently proximate the stationary system if the optical signal is successfully received by a second one of the stationary system and the movable system. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein transferring control information between the stationary and movable systems comprises assigning an identifier to the movable system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein transferring control information between the stationary and movable systems comprises providing a previously assigned identifier to the stationary system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system. 21. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control system component associated with the stationary system is one of a control module and an I/O module. 22. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control system component associated with the stationary system uses the wireless communications component to communicate with a control module or an I/O module associated with the particular movable system. 23. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the control system component associated with the movable system is one of a control module and an I/O module. 24. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the control system component associated with the movable system uses the wireless communications component to communicate with a control module or an I/O module associated with the particular stationary system while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein transferring control information comprises transferring control information between a control module or an I/O module of the stationary system and the second control system component of the movable system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system. 26. The method of claim 17, wherein transferring control information comprises transferring control information between the first control system component of the stationary system and a control module or an I/O module of the movable system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system. 27. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control system components associated with the stationary system and the particular movable system form a segmented POINTbus backplane, comprising: a first part on the stationary system including the control system component and a master wireless transceiver; a second part on the particular movable system including at least one I/O module and a slave wireless transceiver, wherein the at least one I/O module of the second part completes the POINTbus backplane when the associated wireless slave transceiver is wirelessly linked to the wireless master transceiver and when the non-contacting signaling system verifies that the movable system is proximate the stationary system. 28. The control system of claim 27, wherein the non-contacting signaling component associated with the stationary system is operative to transmit or receive an optical signal in a signal path proximate the stationary system to verify whether the movable system is proximate the stationary system. 29. The control system of claim 27, wherein the control system component of the stationary system is operative to assign an identifier to the particular movable system by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 30. The control system of claim 29, wherein the particular movable system is operative to provide a previously assigned identifier to the control system component by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 31. The control system of claim 27, wherein the particular movable system is operative to provide an identifier to the control system component by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 32. The control system of claim 27, wherein the first part of the POINTbus backplane can be interrupted and then can reconnect itself with a second part of the particular movable system or a second part of another movable system using Removal and Insertion Under Power (RIUP) functionality. 33. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control system component associated with the stationary system uses the wireless communications component to provide the control information to the second control system component mounted on the particular movable system to control at least one positioning actuator mounted on the particular movable system to control the position of the workpiece transported by the particular movable system while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 34. The movable system of claim 11, wherein the control system associated with the movable system is mounted on the movable system, and wherein the at least one positioning actuator is mounted on the movable system. 35. The method of claim 17, wherein controlling the positioning actuator of the movable system comprises controlling a positioning actuator mounted on the movable system to control the location of the workpiece transported by the movable system according to the control information transferred between the first control system component of the stationary system and the second control system component of the movable system. 