A radiosurgery system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, the ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the ocular structures inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the ocular structures within the coordinate system. In some embodiments, the position of the ocular structure is tracked and related to the status of the radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized in which beam energy and direction and duration of time for treatment is determined for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, the structure is an eye and the eye is tracked by the system. In some embodiments, the eye is held in place and in some embodiments, the eye is fixed by the patient. In some embodiments, a fiducial is placed on the eye to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of planning radiation therapy for an eye, comprising: preparing a treatment plan for a delivery of an actual dose of radiation to a target at a region of the eye from at least one x-ray radiation beam, the preparing comprising: determining a first estimated dose of radiation to be delivered from an x-ray radiation source outside the eye to the target; determining a second estimated dose of radiation to be received by at least one of the optic nerve and the lens of the eye from the x-ray radiation source; and wherein the second estimated dose of radiation is equal to or less than about 40 percent of the first estimated dose; and wherein the treatment plan comprises at least one of a width of the at least one radiation beam, a distance from the radiation source to the target, a trajectory of the beam, a maximum beam energy, and the first estimated dose of radiation; and wherein the at least one of the width of the at least one radiation beam, the distance from the radiation source to the target, and the trajectory of the beam is selected to effect delivery of the first estimated dose to the target and the second estimated dose to the at least one of the optic nerve and the lens of the eye; and outputting information indicative of the treatment plan to an output module. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the optic nerve and the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the lens is equal to or less than 20 percent of the estimated dose of radiation to be delivered to the target. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the optic nerve and the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the lens is equal to or less than 10 percent of the estimated dose of radiation to be delivered to the target. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the optic nerve and the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the lens is equal to or less than 5 percent of the estimated dose of radiation to be delivered to the target. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the optic nerve and the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the lens is equal to or less than 1 percent of the estimated dose of radiation to be delivered to the target. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the output module comprises at least one of a computer monitor, an LCD, an LED, a handheld device, a paper, a computer-readable medium, a computer-executable instruction, and a communication link to the radiation source. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering thermal energy to the eye during a period of between about 10 days before and about 3 days after delivery of the actual dose of radiation to the target. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering the actual dose of radiation to the target. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the estimated dose of radiation to be delivered to the target, the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the optic nerve, and the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the lens is determined by a Monte Carlo simulation. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the at least one radiation beam has a cross-sectional shape that is geometric. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the geometric cross-sectional shape comprises at least one of an ellipse, a circle, a ring, concentric rings, a polygon, and a crescent. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the optic nerve and the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the lens is based on a surface-to-depth beam energy representation. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the optic nerve and the estimated dose of radiation to be received at the lens is based on tracing diverging rays from an x-ray source with a maximum beam energy less than about 250 keV. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining trajectories of a plurality of radiation beams to be delivered to the target, such that each of the plurality of beams traverses the sclera at a respective traversal zone; and wherein none of the traversal zones overlaps substantially with any other of the intersection zones. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the plurality of beams overlaps with another of the plurality of beams at the target. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising collimating the at least one radiation beam to a size having a cross-sectional dimension that is less than about 6 mm. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining a filtration amount such that a dose of radiation to an exterior surface of the eye is less than 3 times a dose of radiation to the target, wherein the at least one radiation beam has an energy of from about 50 KeV to about 300 KeV. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein a first x-ray beam is filtered with a filter which at least partly comprises a heavy metal. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a current from about 1 mA to about 40 mA to be applied to a radiotherapy system such that a therapeutic dose of radiation to the target is administered in less than about 30 minutes. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein an x-ray beam is collimated and wherein said collimator is placed within about 20 centimeters of the target. 