Methods and apparatus for configuring process, environmental, industrial and other control systems generate and/or utilize models representing configurations of control systems and/or the systems controlled by them. Records of changes to the models or the configurations represented by them are maintained, thereby, for example, providing bases for determining current states, prior states and histories of changes. Objects in the model have characteristics, such as an object type characteristic and an area characteristic. Users can have corresponding permissions. A security mechanism apparatus controls access by users to the objects. Composite objects are defined by definition objects and are displayed in encapsulated or expanded formats. Objects can include an edit control type identifier that determines how they are presented for editing. Functionality responds to user commands by transferring characteristics of a first object depicted by the graphical user interface to a second object. Configuration-time formulas contained objects are evaluated to constants prior to downloading to the control system.
Claims What we claim is: 1. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising a plurality of objects instantiated in a store coupled to a digital data processor that represent entities in any of the control system, a system controlled thereby, a control level hierarchy, and the apparatus for configuring the control system, at least a selected one of the plurality of objects (the "selected object") including an edit control type identifier, an editor, coupled to the store and executing on the digital data processor, that facilitates editing of at least the selected object, the functionality presenting at least a selected aspect of the selected object for editing with an edit control that is based on the edit control type identifier. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the edit control type identifier identifies the edit control to be used by the editor in presenting the selected aspect of the selected object for editing. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the edit control type identifier identified by the edit control type identifier is selected from among a plurality of edit controls appropriate for use by the editor in presenting the selected aspect of the selected object for editing. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least the selected object represents any of a field device, a control device and a controller, a control processor, a field bus module, a block, a loop, and a compound. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4, wherein at least the selected object represents any of an historian, an object connection, a parameter connection, a display placeholder, a graphical display entity, and a report. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the selected object has one or more parameters identifying characteristics of the entity represented by the object. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the editor presents parameters of the selected object in any of a spreadsheet format and a property sheet format. 8. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein at least a selected parameter of the selected object has one or more attributes, each having one or more values. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the editor presents at least a selected attribute of the selected parameter for editing with the edit control. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the attributes of the selected parameter define any of name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the editor presents the attribute defining the data value of the selected parameter with the edit control in accord with the edit control. 12. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the editor presents at least the selected attribute with any of a dialog box format, list box format, edit box format, check box format, combo box format, spreadsheet format and property box format. 13. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising a plurality of objects instantiated in a store coupled to a digital data processor that represent entities in any of the control system, a system controlled thereby, a control level hierarchy, and the apparatus for configuring the control system, at least a selected one of the plurality of objects (the "selected object") having one or more parameters identifying characteristics of the respective entity represented by the selected object, at least a selected parameter having one or more attributes having respective values, at least the selected object including an edit control type identifier, an editor, coupled to the store and executing on the digital data processor, that presents at least a selected attribute of the selected parameter of the selected object for editing with an edit control that is based on the edit control type identifier. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, comprising functionality that facilitates designation of any of the selected parameter and selected attribute from a spreadsheet formatted display of any of parameters and attributes. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the functionality facilitates designation of the selected object from a list of objects. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the functionality facilitates selection of the selected object from among a hierarchical listing of objects. 17. Apparatus according to claim 13, comprising functionality that facilitates designation of any of the selected parameter and selected attribute from a property sheet formatted display any of parameters and attributes. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the functionality presents the property sheet formatted display with a plurality of tabs, each listing a corresponding grouping of parameters. 19. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein at least the selected object represents any of a field device, a control device and a controller, a control processor, a field bus module, a block, a loop, and a compound. 20. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein at least the selected object represents any of an historian, an object connection, a parameter connection, a display placeholder, a graphical display entity, and a report. 21. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the attributes of the selected parameter define any of name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 22. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the functionality presents the attribute defining the data value of the selected parameter with the edit control in accord with the edit control. 23. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the functionality presents at least the selected attribute with any of a dialog box format, list box format, edit box format, check box format, combo box format, spreadsheet format and property box format. 24. Method for configuring a control system, comprising maintaining a plurality of objects instantiated in a store coupled to a digital data processor that represent entities in any of the control system, a system controlled thereby, a control level hierarchy, and an apparatus executing the method for configuring the control system, wherein at least a selected one of the plurality of objects (the "selected object") includes an edit control type identifier, presenting at least a selected aspect of the selected object for editing with an edit control that is based on the edit control type identifier. 25. Method according to claim 24, wherein the maintaining step includes maintaining an edit control type identifier that identifies the edit control to be used by an editor in presenting the selected aspect of the selected object for editing. 26. Method according to claim 25, wherein the maintaining step includes maintaining an edit control type identifier selected from among a plurality of edit controls appropriate for use by the editor in presenting the selected aspect of the selected object for editing. 27. Method according to claim 24, wherein at least the selected object represents any of a field device, a control device and a controller, a control processor, a field bus module, a block, a loop, and a compound. 28. Method according to claim 27, wherein at least the selected object represents any of an historian, an object connection, a parameter connection, a display placeholder, a graphical display entity, and a report. 29. Method according to claim 24, wherein the maintaining step includes maintaining with at least the selected object one or more parameters identifying characteristics of the entity represented by the object. 30. Method according to claim 29, wherein the presenting step includes presenting the parameters of the selected object in any of a spreadsheet format and a property sheet format. 31. Method according to claim 29, wherein at least a selected parameter of the selected object has one or more attributes, each having one or more values. 32. Method according to claim 31, wherein the presenting step includes presenting at least a selected attribute of the selected parameter for editing with the edit control. 33. Method according to claim 32, wherein the attributes of the selected parameter define any of name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 34. Method according to claim 33, wherein the presenting step includes presenting the attribute defining the data value of the selected parameter with the edit control in accord with the edit control. 35. Method according to claim 32, wherein the presenting step includes presenting at least the selected attribute with any of a dialog box format, list box format, edit box format, check box format, combo box format, spreadsheet format and property box format. 36. Method for configuring a control system, comprising maintaining a plurality of objects instantiated in a store coupled to a digital data processor that represent entities in any of the control system, a system controlled thereby, a control level hierarchy, and an apparatus executing the method for configuring the control system, the maintaining step including maintaining with at least a selected one of the plurality of objects (the "selected object") one or more parameters identifying characteristics of the respective entity represented by the selected object, at least a selected parameter having one or more attributes having respective values, at least the selected object including an edit control type identifier, presenting at least a selected attribute of the selected parameter of the selected object for editing with an edit control that is based on the edit control type identifier. 37. Method according to claim 36, comprising selecting any of the selected parameter and selected attribute from a spreadsheet formatted display of any of parameters and attributes. 38. Method according to claim 37, comprising wherein the selecting step includes selecting the selected object from a list of objects. 39. Method according to claim 38, wherein the selecting step includes selecting the selected object from among a hierarchical listing of objects. 40. Method according to claim 36, comprising selecting any of the selected parameter and selected attribute from a property sheet formatted display any of parameters and attributes. 41. Method according to claim 40, wherein the selecting step includes displaying the property sheet formatted display with a plurality of tabs, each listing a corresponding grouping of parameters. 42. Method according to claim 36, wherein at least the selected object represents any of a field device, a control device and a controller, a control processor, a field bus module, a block, a loop, and a compound. 43. Method according to claim 36, wherein at least the selected object represents any of an historian, an object connection, a parameter connection, a display placeholder, a graphical display entity, and a report. 44. Method according to claim 37, wherein the attributes of the selected parameter define any of name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 45. Method according to claim 37, wherein the presenting step includes presenting the attribute defining the data value of the selected parameter with the edit control in accord with the edit control type identifier. 46. Method according to claim 37, wherein the presenting step includes presenting at least the selected attribute with any of a dialog box format, list box format, edit box format, check box format, combo box format, spreadsheet format and property box format. 