Robotic devices, systems, and methods for use in robotic surgery and other robotic applications, and/or medical instrument devices, systems, and methods includes both a reusable processor and a limited-use robotic tool or medical treatment probe. A memory the limited-use component includes machine readable code with data and/or programming instructions to be implemented by the processor. Programming of the processor can be updated by shipping of new data once downloaded by the processor from a component, subsequent components can take advantage of the updated processor without repeated downloading.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling tools for a robotic surgical system, the system comprising a robotic arm with a signal interface, the method comprising: coupling a first tool to the signal interface; reading a first tool identifier signal via the signal interface; from the first tool identifier signal, identifying the first tool as having first additional tool data lacking in a memory of the robotic surgical system; downloading the first additional tool data from the first tool to the memory; controlling the movement of the first tool using the first additional tool data; coupling a second tool to the signal interface; reading a second tool identifier signal via the signal interface; from the second tool identifier signal, identifying the second tool as corresponding to the first additional tool data stored in the memory; and controlling movement of the second tool using the first additional tool data. 2. The method of claim 1, the first tool identifier signal and the second tool identifier signal being the same tool type identifier signal. 3. The method of claim 1, the first additional tool data stored in an update list of the memory associated with a plurality of tool types, the memory further storing a native list of data associated with each of the plurality of tool types, the method further comprising: controlling movement of a native tool using data from the native list of data stored in memory, the native tool coupled to the signal interface prior to the first tool being coupled to the signal interface. 4. The method of claim 1, the memory further comprising a software revision identifier, the first additional tool data comprising a minimum software revision identifier, the method further comprising: inhibiting use of the first tool if the software revision identifier is less than the minimum software revision identifier. 5. The method of claim 1, the controlling movement of the first tool being in response to an operator controlling a corresponding movement at a master input device. 6. A surgical robotic system comprising: a robotic arm comprising a signal interface; a memory; a processor; computer-readable storage medium comprising: code for causing the processor to read tool data via the signal interface when a first tool is engaged to the signal interface; code for causing the processor to store the read tool data to the memory; code for causing the processor to read the stored tool data from the memory when a second tool is engaged to the signal interface; and code for causing the processor to direct movement of the second tool using the read stored tool data. 7. The system of claim 6, the first and second tools each comprising an end effector, the processor directing movement of the end effectors via the robotic arm. 8. The system of claim 6, the tool data comprising tool movement-directing data. 9. The system of claim 6, the tool data comprising a tool-type identifier. 10. The system of claim 6, the tool data comprising a software revision code of the first tool. 11. The system of claim 10, the computer-readable storage medium further comprising code for causing the processor to compare a software revision code of the second tool with the software revision code of the first tool and to, if the software revision code of the second tool is less than the software revision code of the first tool, use the read stored tool data to direct movement of the second tool. 