A spatial mask printer may be used in conjunction with an optical inspection tool. The tool can be used to obtain a Fourier image of an inspected object, and a filter mask image can be designed to block certain aspects of the object's image in the Fourier plane corresponding to repetitive aspects of the imaged object. The filter mask image can then be printed and used in the tool during the inspection process. The mask image may be designed by hand or by computer and may be stored for later use. Filters may be automatically placed into the optical path of the inspection tool by a filter wheel, or may be housed in other filter banks. The printer may be configured to operate in a clean room environment, and may be integrated into the optical inspection tool.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of producing a spatial filter mask, comprising: producing an actual Fourier image representation of an object; producing a simulated Fourier image representation of the object based on an analysis of the actual Fourier image of the object; defining a filter mask image that includes at least one blocking area using the simulated Fourier image, wherein the blocking area corresponds to a representation of at least one repetitive aspect of the object; and printing a pattern corresponding to the filter mask image on a filter substrate; wherein the printing is performed in a substantially sealed case housing that includes ventilation connections, and wherein the ventilation connections are interfaced with an exhaust system so that a pressure inside the sealed case housing is lower than a pressure outside the sealed case housing. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the printing comprises inkjet printing. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the pattern is printed in UV-curable ink. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the filter mask image comprises a digital image. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the specifying includes drawing the at least one blocking area in a bitmap, and the printing includes inkjet-printing the drawn area. 6. An optical inspection system, comprising: an imager operative to obtain an actual Fourier image an object; a computer operative to produce a simulated Fourier image representation of the object based on an analysis of the actual Fourier image of the object and define a filter mask image that includes at least one blocking area using the simulated Fourier image, wherein the blocking area corresponds to a representation of at least one repetitive aspect of the object; an object illumination source; a filter mask printer enclosed in a substantially sealed case housing that includes ventilation connections, and wherein the ventilation connections are interfaced with an exhaust system so that a pressure inside the sealed case housing is lower than a pressure outside the sealed case housing the filter mask printer being configured to print the filter mask on a filter substrate; and positioning apparatus configured to move the filter mask into the imager, such that the filter mask is disposed at a Fourier plane of the optical inspection system. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the filter mask printer comprises: a loading stage configured to hold at least one filter mask substrate; and a printing stage comprising at least one inkjet printing head. 8. The system of claim 6, further comprising a filter bank configured to receive a plurality of filter masks. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the filter bank comprises a motorized wheel configured to receive a plurality of filters such that at least one filter can be selected and disposed at the Fourier plane by rotating the wheel. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the positioning apparatus includes at least one robotic arm or conveyor configured to receive and transport a mask output from the filter mask printer. 11. The system of claim 6, wherein the filter mask is part of a spatial filter mask assembly, comprising: a filter substrate; and blocking areas comprising ink printed on the filter substrate in a pattern corresponding to a Fourier image produced by at least one repetitive aspect of a semiconductor device. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the spatial filter mask assembly further comprises a frame. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the frame further includes at least one spring clip such that the filter substrate is removably attached to a filter substrate holder. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the ink comprises UV-cured polymer ink. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the spatial filter mask assembly further comprises identification indicia. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the identification indicia is selected from a group consisting of a barcode, alphanumeric characters, and a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag. 17. A method of Fourier filtering, comprising: using an optical inspection system to create an actual Fourier image of an object; using a computer to create a simulated Fourier image representation of the object based on an analysis of the actual Fourier image of the object; defining a filter mask image that includes at least one blocking area using the simulated Fourier image, wherein the blocking area corresponds to a representation of at least one repetitive aspect of the object; creating a spatial filter mask by printing the filter mask image on a filter substrate, wherein the printing is performed in a substantially sealed case housing that includes ventilation connections, and wherein the ventilation connections are interfaced with an exhaust system so that a pressure inside the sealed case housing is lower than a pressure outside the sealed case housing; and placing the spatial filter mask in a Fourier plane of the optical inspection system such that the spatial filter mask blocks a portion of the Fourier image of the object. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the placing is performed by automated machinery. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the printing comprises applying UV-curable ink to the filter substrate using at least one inkjet print head. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the placing includes selecting the spatial filter mask from a plurality of spatial filter masks and automatically moving the selected spatial filter mask into the Fourier plane. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein selecting and automatically moving the spatial filter mask includes rotating a motorized wheel configured to hold the plurality of spatial filter masks such that the selected spatial filter mask is placed in the Fourier plane. 