A robotic hand with finger assemblies to better simulate human hand form factors and gestures. For each finger assembly, the robotic hand includes a finger drive assembly that is operable to selectively apply tension to four elongated and flexible tension elements (e.g., steel cable). Each of the finger assemblies includes a set of links or link members that are actuated or moved by the selective tensioning/movement of the tension elements by the drive assembly. The links are interconnected with pivotal joints such that they have three degrees-of-freedom, and the finger assembly includes a set of pulleys that are supported on the links and that are arranged to provide support and to guide the tension elements through the finger assembly. The tension elements preferably extend only partially about any one of the pulleys, whereby the finger assembly utilizes "n+1" actuation with non-helical wrapping of the tension elements.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic hand, comprising: at least one finger assembly; and for each of the finger assemblies included in the robotic hand, a drive assembly selectively applying tension to four elongated and flexible tension elements; wherein each of the finger assemblies comprises a set of links actuated by the tension elements; wherein the links are interconnected with pivotal joints to have motion with three degrees-of-freedom; wherein the finger assembly further comprises a set of pulleys supported on the links to support and guide the tension elements in the finger assembly, the tension elements extending only partially about any one of the pulleys, whereby the finger assembly provides n+1 actuation with non-helical wrapping of the tension elements; and wherein the drive assembly consists of three actuators driving the four tension elements. 2. The robotic hand of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the pulleys are single groove pulleys without helical wrappings and wherein the tension elements each comprise a cable. 3. The robotic hand of claim 2, wherein each of the cables wraps around less than half of the circumference of any of the pulleys. 4. The robotic hand of claim 1, wherein the set of links comprises a first digit link, a second digit link, and a third digit link, the third digit link being pivotally mounted to the second digit link and the second digit link being pivotally mounted to the first digit link, and wherein the first and second digit links are independently operable by the drive assembly applying tension to the tension elements. 5. The robotic hand of claim 4, the finger assembly further comprising a palm plate, a base link member, and a first digit mounting link member, wherein the base link member is rigidly attached to the palm plate to support the finger assembly, wherein the first digit mounting link member is pivotally mounted to the base link member for pivoting about a first axis, and wherein the first digit link is pivotally coupled to the first digit mounting link member for pivoting about a second axis transverse to the first axis. 6. The robotic hand of claim 5, wherein a range of motion for the first digit mounting link member relative to the base link member is less than about 40 degrees to define a side-to-side movement of the first digit link and wherein a range of motion of the first digit link relative to the first digit mounting link member is less than about 15 degrees rotation about the second axis in a counterclockwise direction relative to a plane extending through the second axis and in a clockwise direction relative to the plane extending through the second axis is in the range of about 75 to 100 degrees. 7. The robotic hand of claim 4, wherein first and second ones of the tension elements terminate on the second digit link and wherein third and fourth ones of the tension elements terminate on the first digit link. 8. The robotic hand of claim 4, wherein the finger assembly further comprises an additional link coupling the third digit link to the second digit link such that the third digit link is actuated by movement of the second digit link as a passive follower link. 9. The robotic hand of claim 1, further comprising an articulated wrist positioned between the finger assemblies and the drive assembly of each of the finger assemblies. 10. The robotic hand of claim 9, further comprising cable conduits extending through the articulated wrist and wherein each of the tension elements extends through one of the cable conduits. 11. A finger assembly for a robotic hand adapted to be driven by four drive cables, comprising a base link for receiving the drive cables and mounting to a base of the robotic hand; a mounting link pivotally mounted to the base link for rotation about a first axis; an elongated first digit link pivotally mounted at a first end to the mounting link for rotation about a second axis that is transverse to the first axis; a second digit link pivotally mounted at a first end to a second end of the first digit link for rotation about a third axis; and a third digit link pivotally mounted to a second end of the second digit link for rotation about a fourth axis, wherein the first axis is substantially orthogonal to the second axis and the second, third, and fourth axes are substantial parallel. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein a pair of the drive cables are attached to the second digit link and a pair of the drive cables are attached to the first digit link and wherein the third digit link is coupled to the second digit link to be actuated to rotate about the fourth axis by movement of the second digit link about the third axis. 13. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the mounting link has a range of motion about the first axis of less than about 40 degrees. 14. The assembly of claim 13, wherein the first digit link has a range of motion in a first direction about the second axis of less than about 20 degrees and in a second direction of more than about 75 degrees and wherein the second digit link has a range of motion in the second direction of more than 90 degrees. 15. The assembly of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of pulleys on the one or more of the links, wherein each of the drive cables is routed through the finger assembly to contact one or more of the pulleys within a groove over less than one half of the pulley circumference and wherein at least one of the pulleys is a single groove pulley. 16. A robotic hand system, comprising: a robotic hand assembly comprising a palm element and a plurality of fingers affixed to the palm element, wherein the fingers comprise a set of links and joints adapted to provide the finger with three degrees-of-freedom (DOF) movement; a set of four drive cables for actuating each of the fingers to perform the three DOF movement; and a finger drive mechanism for each of the fingers comprising a passive tension maintenance system maintaining each of the drive cables under tension and comprising three actuators selectively applying additional tensile forces on the drive cables to actuate the finger. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the passive tension maintenance system comprises a first and second pulley, a first pair of the drive cables are connected together and looped over the first pulley, a second pair of the drive cables are connected together and looped over the second pulley, and the first and second pulley are positioned within the finger drive mechanism to place each of the cables under tension. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the three actuators comprise three drive motors for selectively applying a tensile force on three of the four drive cables. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein each of the fingers comprises first, second, and third link members, the first link member being mounted to the palm element for rotation about first and second orthogonal axes, the second link member being pivotally mounted to an end of the first link member distal to the palm element, and the third link member being pivotally mounted to an end of the second link member distal to the first link member. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein a pair of the drive cables are attached to the second digit member and a pair of the drive cables are attached to the first digit link member to allow the actuators to independently move the first link member about the first and second axes and also to independently move the second link member relative to the first link member. 21. A robotic hand, comprising: at least one finger assembly; for each of the finger assemblies included in the robotic hand, a drive assembly selectively applying tension to four elongated and flexible tension elements; an articulated wrist positioned between the finger assemblies and the drive assembly of each of the finger assemblies; and cable conduits extending through the articulated wrist, wherein each of the tension elements extends through one of the cable conduits, wherein each of the finger assemblies comprises a set of links actuated by the tension elements, wherein the links are interconnected with pivotal joints to have motion with three degrees-of-freedom, and wherein the finger assembly further comprises a set of pulleys supported on the links to support and guide the tension elements in the finger assembly, the tension elements extending only partially about any one of the pulleys, whereby the finger assembly provides n+1 actuation with non-helical wrapping of the tension elements. 22. The robotic hand of claim 21, wherein at least a portion of the pulleys are single groove pulleys without helical wrappings and wherein the tension elements each comprise a cable. 23. The robotic hand of claim 22, wherein each of the cables wraps around less than half of the circumference of any of the pulleys. 24. The robotic hand of claim 21, wherein the set of links comprises a first digit link, a second digit link, and a third digit link, the third digit link being pivotally mounted to the second digit link and the second digit link being pivotally mounted to the first digit link, and wherein the first and second digit links are independently operable by the drive assembly applying tension to the tension elements. 25. A robotic hand, comprising: at least one finger assembly; and for each of the finger assemblies included in the robotic hand, a drive assembly selectively applying tension to four elongated and flexible tension elements; wherein each of the finger assemblies comprises a set of links actuated by the tension elements, wherein the links are interconnected with pivotal joints to have motion with three degrees-of-freedom, wherein the finger assembly further comprises a set of pulleys supported on the links to support and guide the tension elements in the finger assembly, the tension elements extending only partially about any one of the pulleys, whereby the finger assembly provides n+1 actuation with non-helical wrapping of the tension elements, wherein the set of links comprises a first digit link, a second digit link, and a third digit link, the third digit link being pivotally mounted to the second digit link and the second digit link being pivotally mounted to the first digit link, the first and second digit links being independently operable by the drive assembly applying tension to the tension elements, and wherein the finger assembly further comprises an additional link coupling the third digit link to the second digit link such that the third digit link is actuated by movement of the second digit link as a passive follower link. 26. The robotic hand of claim 25, wherein at least a portion of the pulleys are single groove pulleys without helical wrappings, wherein the tension elements each comprise a cable, and wherein each of the cables wraps around less than half of the circumference of any of the pulleys. 27. The robotic hand of claim 25, further comprising an articulated wrist positioned between the finger assemblies and the drive assembly of each of the finger assemblies and further comprising cable conduits extending through the articulated wrist and wherein each of the tension elements extends through one of the cable conduits. 28. A robotic hand, comprising: at least one finger assembly; for each of the finger assemblies included in the robotic hand, a drive assembly selectively applying tension to four elongated and flexible tension elements, wherein each the finger assemblies further comprises a palm plate, a base link member, and a first digit mounting link member, wherein each of the finger assemblies comprises a set of links actuated by the tension elements, wherein the links are interconnected with pivotal joints to have motion with three degrees-of-freedom, wherein the finger assembly further comprises a set of pulleys supported on the links to support and guide the tension elements in the finger assembly, the tension elements extending only partially about any one of the pulleys, whereby the finger assembly provides n+1 actuation with non-helical wrapping of the tension elements, wherein the set of links comprises a first digit link, a second digit link, and a third digit link, the third digit link being pivotally mounted to the second digit link and the second digit link being pivotally mounted to the first digit link, and the first and second digit links being independently operable by the drive assembly applying tension to the tension elements, wherein the base link member is rigidly attached to the palm plate to support the finger assembly, wherein the first digit mounting link member is pivotally mounted to the base link member for pivoting about a first axis, and wherein the first digit link is pivotally coupled to the first digit mounting link member for pivoting about a second axis transverse to the first axis. 29. The robotic hand of claim 28, wherein at least a portion of the pulleys are single groove pulleys without helical wrappings, wherein the tension elements each comprise a cable, and wherein each of the cables wraps around less than half of the circumference of any of the pulleys. 30. The robotic hand of claim 28, wherein a range of motion for the first digit mounting link member relative to the base link member is less than about 40 degrees to define a side-to-side movement of the first digit link and wherein a range of motion of the first digit link relative to the first digit mounting link member is less than about 15 degrees rotation about the second axis in a counterclockwise direction relative to a plane extending through the second axis and in a clockwise direction relative to the plane extending through the second axis is in the range of about 75 to 100 degrees. 31. The robotic hand of claim 28, further comprising: an articulated wrist positioned between the finger assemblies and the drive assembly of each of the finger assemblies; and cable conduits extending through the articulated wrist, wherein each of the tension elements extends through one of the cable conduits. 32. A robotic hand, comprising: at least one finger assembly; and for each of the finger assemblies included in the robotic hand, a drive assembly selectively applying tension to four elongated and flexible tension elements; wherein each of the finger assemblies comprises a set of links actuated by the tension elements; wherein the links are interconnected with pivotal joints to have motion with three degrees-of-freedom; and wherein the finger assembly further comprises a set of pulleys supported on the links to support and guide the tension elements in the finger assembly, the tension elements extending only partially about any one of the pulleys, whereby the finger assembly provides n+1 actuation with non-helical wrapping of the tension elements, and wherein the set of links comprises a first digit link, a second digit link, and a third digit link, the third digit link being pivotally mounted to the second digit link and the second digit link being pivotally mounted to the first digit link, and the first and second digit links being independently operable by the drive assembly applying tension to the tension elements, wherein first and second ones of the tension elements terminate on the second digit link, and wherein third and fourth ones of the tension elements terminate on the first digit link. 33. The robotic hand of claim 32, wherein at least a portion of the pulleys are single groove pulleys without helical wrappings, wherein the tension elements each comprise a cable, and wherein each of the cables wraps around less than half of the circumference of any of the pulleys. 34. The robotic hand of claim 32, further comprising: an articulated wrist positioned between the finger assemblies and the drive assembly of each of the finger assemblies; and cable conduits extending through the articulated wrist, wherein each of the tension elements extends through one of the cable conduits. 