Exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for assembling electronic devices, such as integrated circuit (IC) chips, using a release member having a phase change material. Specifically, IC elements/components can be selectively received, stored, inspected, repaired, and/or released in a scalable manner during the assembly of IC chips by inducing phase change of the phase change material. The release member can be glass with the IC elements grown on the glass. In some embodiments, the release member can be used for a low cost placement of the IC elements in combination with an intermediate transfer layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling integrated circuits comprising: forming a integrated circuit (IC) layer on a phase change material of a release member; forming a plurality of bump bonds on the IC layer of the release member; forming one or more spaced dies on the phase change material by etching through the IC layer, wherein each spaced die comprises one or more bump bonds formed on an etched IC layer; exposing the phase change material to an energy to induce a phase change for selectively releasing the one or more spaced dies from the release member; and wherein the release member comprises a glass having a surface of about 2 square meters or more. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising placing the one or more released IC elements onto a subsequent surface, wherein the subsequent surface is flexible or rigid. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the subsequent surface comprises plastic, glass, metal, or packaging material. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the subsequent surface comprises a roll-to-roll material. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: bonding each transferred IC element onto the chip substrate, wherein bonding each transferred IC element comprises one or more processes of applying pressure and heat to bond each transferred IC element onto the chip substrate; and encapsulating each bonded IC element in an encapsulating material. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the bonding comprises using at least one pressure roller and at least one heat roller to bond the transferred IC elements onto the chip substrate. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein encapsulating each bonded IC element comprises applying a translucent encapsulating material or an opaque encapsulating material, and curing the encapsulating material. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy that induces phase change is produced by one of more of an optical energy, a magnetic energy, a thermal energy, a radiative energy, or an electrical energy. 9. A method for assembling integrated circuits comprising: forming a integrated circuit (IC) layer on a phase change material of a release member; forming a plurality of bump bonds on the IC layer of the release member; forming one or more spaced dies on the phase change material by etching through the IC layer, wherein each spaced die comprises one or more bump bonds formed on an etched IC layer; exposing the phase change material to an energy to induce a phase change for selectively releasing the one or more spaced dies from the release member; and wherein the phase change material comprises one or more metals, metal alloys and/or metal compounds of a combination to trip at a predetermined temperature to conduct the phase change. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the release member further comprises a release support having the phase change material formed thereon. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the release member has a surface area of at least about any part of a substrate and as much as an entire web. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the release member is at least partially transparent. 13. A method for assembling integrated circuits comprising: forming a integrated circuit (IC) layer on a phase change material of a release member; forming a plurality of bump bonds on the IC layer of the release member; forming one or more spaced dies on the phase change material by etching through the IC layer, wherein each spaced die comprises one or more bump bonds formed on an etched IC layer; exposing the phase change material to an energy to induce a phase change for selectively releasing the one or more spaced dies from the release member; and wherein the energy is generated by a UV laser or an IR laser. 14. A method for controlling an assembly of IC elements comprising: coupling one or more IC elements onto a phase change material of a release member; selectively inspecting a group of the one or more IC elements on the phase change material; and selectively applying an energy to a portion of the phase change material to release an inspected IC element for repair. 