A method for manufacturing a complex structure from a two-dimensional layout, the method comprising: (a) obtaining a support plate having a pre-determined, patterned recess formed in a surface thereof; (b) depositing a first series of individual flexible interconnects into the recess, the flexible interconnects being aligned parallel to one another in a common plane and supported by the support plate; (c) adhering, with adhering means, at least one rigid member to each of the flexible interconnects of the first series; (d) adhering, with adhering means, a second series of individual flexible interconnects to the rigid members to form a plurality of stations, wherein each of the second series of flexible interconnects is adhered to two rigid members of adjacent flexible interconnects of the first series, the flexible interconnects of the second series being formed perpendicular to the flexible interconnects of the first series; (e) curing the adhering means to form an assembled, layered structure; (f) removing the layered structure from the support plate; and (g) folding, systematically, the layered structure on itself and causing at least some of the stations to be supported about a central spine in a segmented manner.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A method for manufacturing an elongate structure from a two-dimensional layout, said method comprising: obtaining a support plate having a pre-determined, patterned recess formed in a surface thereof; depositing a first series of individual flexible interconnects into said recess, said flexible interconnects having a pre-determined configuration and being aligned parallel to one another in a common plane as supported by said support plate; adhering at least one rigid member to each of said flexible interconnects of said first series; adhering a second series of individual flexible interconnects to said rigid members to form an arrangement of a plurality of stations, wherein each of said second series of flexible interconnects is adhered to two rigid members of adjacent flexible interconnects of said first series; removing said arrangement from said support plate; and folding, systematically, said arrangement on itself and causing at least some of said stations to be supported about a central spine to form said elongate structure. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to adhering said second series of flexible interconnects, configuring one or more of said rigid members with an on-board system, wherein said station becomes a performance station. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said performance station is selected from the group consisting of an intelligent performance station, an electrical performance station, a mechanical performance station, an actuation performance station, an information gathering performance station, a valving performance station, a pumping performance station, and an electro-mechanical performance station. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising electrically and operably connecting said on-board system to an electrical component of said flexible interconnect. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising depositing, in a removable manner, one or more electrical taps on said central spine between said rigid members, said taps being configured to confirm proper operation of any on-board systems of said rigid members. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising curing said adhering means to form an assembled, layered, two-dimensional structure. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising adhering a node to one of said flexible interconnects of said first series, said node functioning member being configured to provide an output function and to be disposed between adjacent stations. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said recess of said support plate comprises a plurality of similarly sized substantially rectangular shaped segments arranged in an intersecting manner to form a step-like pattern. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said flexible interconnects comprise a material selected from the group consisting of plastic, polymer, shape memory alloy and metalized polyimide film. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming an electrical connection between said rigid member and said flexible material being attached thereto. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising addressing each of said stations and any nodes of said elongate structure for networking purposes. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising multiplexing said elongate structure to simplify communication between said stations and any peripheral systems. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said flexible interconnects and said rigid members each comprise an aperture formed therein that are at least partially aligned with one another to facilitate the depositing of said rigid members on said central spine. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said second series of flexible interconnects are aligned parallel to one another and perpendicular to said first series of flexible interconnects. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said steps of adhering comprise applying adhering means at locations where said rigid members will be attached to said flexible interconnects, or where electrical connectivity is required. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said adhering means is selected from the group consisting of an adhesive and a solder material. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said rigid members are comprised of metal. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said rigid member is comprised of silicone, said rigid member functioning as a computer chip to facilitate one or more intelligent functions. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said curing comprises: covering said layered structure with a top plate; and exposing said layered structure to a pre-determined temperature for a pre-determined duration of time. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said folding comprises causing each of said flexible interconnects from said first and second series, respectively, to be folded upon themselves, thus locating each between adjacent rigid members as supported about said central spine. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein said elongate structure is configured as an electro-mechanical structure. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising securing said rigid members to said central spine to maintain a fixed, segmented configuration. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein said central spine comprises a wire. 24. A method for manufacturing a structure from a two-dimensional layout, said method comprising: obtaining a support plate having a patterned recess formed in a surface thereof; depositing a first, single piece of flexible interconnect into said recess, said flexible interconnect comprising a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of said patterned recess; adhering a plurality of rigid members to said flexible interconnect, said rigid members being positioned in a pre-determined arrangement; adhering a second, single piece of flexible interconnect to said rigid members, wherein said second, single piece of flexible interconnect comprises a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of said patterned recess, said rigid members and said first and second flexible interconnects being attached to define a plurality of stations; curing said adhering means to form an assembled, layered structure; removing said layered structure from said support plate; and folding, systematically, said layered structure on itself and causing each of said stations to be supported about a central spine to form said structure. 