A roller hemming system for edge hemming vehicle closures from nested metal panels includes an anvil robot moveably supporting a hemming anvil having a working surface, a clamping spider cooperable with the anvil robot for clamping the nested metal panels on the working surface, an anvil register including a base and a registration feature for matingly positioning the hemming anvil thereto, a hemming robot including a multi-axis controllable arm, a roller hemming apparatus mounted on a distal end of the multi-axis arm, the roller hemming apparatus being moveable along edges of the nested metal panels on the anvil to hem the panels together.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A roller hemming system for edge hemming vehicle closures from nested metal panels, said system comprising: an anvil robot moveably supporting a hemming anvil having a working surface; a cornering unit mounted on said hemming anvil and including a non-rotatable hemming tool for performing hemming operations only on corners of said nested metal panels; a clamping spider cooperable with said anvil robot for clamping said nested metal panels on said working surface; an anvil register including a base and a registration feature for matingly positioning said hemming anvil thereto; a hemming robot including a multi-axis controllable arm; roller hemming apparatus mounted on a distal end of said multi-axis arm; said roller hemming apparatus being moveable along edges of said nested metal panels on said anvil to hem said panels together. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said clamping spider includes a plurality of pivotal swing clamps pivotable between an open loading position and closed clamping position. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said clamping spider includes a registration member for locating metal panels. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said registration member is a register pin. 5. The system of claim 1 including a plurality of hemming robots. 6. The system of claim 1 including an additional robot having a tool exchanger end effector. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said cornering unit is mounted along the side of said anvil. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said cornering unit is mounted adjacent said anvil working surface. 9. The system of claim 1 including a cornering unit actuator for actuating said cornering unit to hem said nested metal panels in an engaged disposition of said hemming tool. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said cornering unit actuator is a robot. 11. The system of claim 9 wherein said cornering unit actuator is a fluid actuated cylinder arrangement. 12. The system of claim 9 wherein said cornering unit actuator is a mechanical linkage assembly. 13. The system of claim 9 including a biasing member to bias said cornering unit hemming tool to a non-engaged disposition. 14. A process for edge hemming vehicle closures from nested metal panels, said process comprising the steps of: moveably supporting a hemming anvil having a working surface on an anvil robot; mounting a cornering unit on said hemming anvil, the cornering unit including a non-rotatable hemming tool for performing hemming operations only on corners of said nested metal panels; clamping said nested metal panels on said working surface using a clamping spider cooperable with said anvil robot; matingly positioning said hemming anvil to an anvil register including a base and a registration feature; providing a hemming robot including a multi-axis controllable arm including roller hemming apparatus mounted on a distal end of said multi-axis arm; moving said roller hemming apparatus along edges of said nested metal panels on said anvil to hem said panels together; actuating said cornering unit to hem corners of said nested metal panels. 