A steerable endoscope has an elongated body with a selectively steerable distal portion and an automatically controlled proximal portion. The endoscope body is inserted into a patient and the selectively steerable distal portion is used to select a desired path within the patient's body. When the endoscope body is advanced, an electronic motion controller operates the automatically controlled proximal portion to assume the selected curve of the selectively steerable distal portion. Another desired path is selected with the selectively steerable distal portion and the endoscope body is advanced again. As the endoscope body is further advanced, the selected curves propagate proximally along the endoscope body, and when the endoscope body is withdrawn proximally, the selected curves propagate distally along the endoscope body. This creates a serpentine motion in the endoscope body that allows it to negotiate tortuous curves along a desired path through, around, and between organs within the body.
Claims I claim: 1. An instrument maneuvering system comprising: an elongate body comprising a distal portion and a proximal portion; a motion controller configured to control motion of the distal and proximal portions of the elongate body; and a memory having stored therein a three-dimensional model of a patient's anatomy; wherein the three-dimensional model is constructed from medical imaging modality information; wherein the motion controller is configured to identify a desired path in the three-dimensional model; and wherein the motion controller is configured to steer the distal portion of the elongate body along the desired path and to propagate a curve of the distal portion of the elongate body into the proximal portion of the elongate body as the elongate body is inserted into the patient. 2. The system of claim 1: wherein the three-dimensional model comprises anatomical feature of interest information; and wherein the motion controller is configured to automatically advance the elongate body into the patient to reach the anatomical feature of interest. 3. The system of claim 1: wherein the three-dimensional model comprises anatomical feature of interest information; and wherein the anatomical feature of interest information is annotated in the three-dimensional model by a system operator. 4. The system of claim 1: wherein the three-dimensional model comprises anatomical feature of interest information; and wherein the anatomical feature of interest information is annotated in the three-dimensional model from the medical imaging modality information. 5. The system of claim 1: wherein the imaging modality is selected from a group consisting of fluoroscopy, radiography, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, electron beam tomography, and virtual colonoscopy. 6. The system of claim 1: wherein the motion controller is configured to withdraw the elongate body along the desired path to a desired location identified in the three-dimensional model. 7. The system of claim 1: wherein the elongate body is selected from a group consisting of an endoscope, a colonoscope, a catheter, a cannula, a surgical instrument, and an introducer sheath. 8. The system of claim 1: wherein the desired path comprises a path around an organ. 9. The system of claim 1: wherein the desired path comprises a path between two organs. 10. The system of claim 1: wherein the motion controller is configured to automatically advance the elongate body into the patient. 