There is provided an automated prescription filling system using a robotic arm in combination with an automatic pharmaceutical dispenser having a plurality of individual pill-counting units, each under the control of its own microprocessor. The automatic pharmaceutical dispensers are modified for use with the robotic arm. Because tablet counting is completely independent of the robotic arm, system throughput is higher than in systems of the prior art. Unlike systems of the prior art, each individual pill-counting unit can be removed from behind the pharmaceutical dispenser so that the system need not be stopped for such service. The fact that counting operations are divorced from robotic arm movements allows the arm movements to be optimized and multiple prescriptions to be processed simultaneously. Controller software optimizes movement of the robotic arm based upon such factors as the fullness of the vial being transported.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated prescription filling and pill dispensing cabinet system, comprising: a) at least one automated pharmaceutical dispenser comprising a plurality of individual, independently operable pill-counting mechanisms each having its own storage of medications disposed in groups upon a plurality of movable shelves, each of said pill-counting mechanisms containing a supply of a predetermined pill and each having an output buffer adapted to receive and temporarily retain counted pills therefrom, said output buffer comprising an output area adapted to removably receive a vial presented thereat by an effector of a robotic mechanism and to discharge said temporarily retained pills into said vial; b) a robotic mechanism located proximate said at least one automated pharmaceutical pill dispensing cabinet and having an effector adapted to grasp a vial; c) a plurality of microprocessors for respectively controlling said plurality of individual, independent pill-counting mechanisms and said robotic mechanism connected thereto, comprising means for at least one of: i) calculating a size of a vial necessary to contain said temporarily retained pills; ii) varying a velocity of said robotic mechanism based upon at least the fullness of a vial; iii) preventing access to any of said group of pill-counting mechanisms disposed upon one of said movable shelves when said one movable shelf is withdrawn; iv) collecting said temporarily retained pills from said output buffer when an order therefore is cancelled after said pills have been counted from said supply into said output buffer; v) suspending an order when said counting of said pills from said supply into said output buffer is interrupted because said supply of pills is exhausted prior to completion of counting; and d) an automated prescription filling system wherein at least one of said plurality of individual, independently operable pill-counting mechanisms comprises a microprocessor. 2. The automated prescription filling system as recited in claim 1, wherein at least two of said plurality of individual, independently pill-counting mechanisms may operate substantially simultaneously. 3. The automated prescription system as recited in claim 1, wherein said robotic mechanism is adapted to receive an empty vial at a vial storage area, to transport said empty vial to said output region of said output buffer, and, after receiving said temporarily retained pills therefrom in said empty vial, to transport the resulting filled vial to an output area. 4. The automated prescription system as recited in claim 3, wherein said robotic mechanism is further adapted to transport at least one of said empty vial, and said filled vial to a vial labeling station. 5. The automated prescription system as recited in claim 3, wherein said empty vial is a labeled empty vial. 6. The automated prescription system as recited in claim 5, wherein said labeling station comprises at least one of the types: manual labeling station and automated labeling station. 7. The automated prescription system as recited in claim 6, wherein said robotic mechanism is located proximate a front side of said automatic pharmaceutical dispenser. 8. The automated prescription system as recited in claim 7, wherein each of said plurality of individual, independent pill-counting mechanisms may be replenished from a side other than said front side of said automatic pharmaceutical dispenser. 9. The automated prescription system as recited in claim 7, wherein each of said plurality of individual, independent pill-counting mechanisms may be serviced from a side other than said front side of said automatic pharmaceutical dispenser. 10. A method for utilizing a robotic mechanism in an automated prescription filling system, the steps comprising: a) providing an automatic pharmaceutical dispensing system comprising a plurality of individual, independently operable pill-counting mechanisms disposed in groups upon a plurality of movable shelves, each of said pill counting mechanisms containing a supply of a predetermined pill and each having an output buffer adapted to receive and temporarily retain counted pills therefrom, independent of the presence of a vial, said output buffer comprising an output area adapted to removably receive vial presented thereat by an effector of a three dimensional robotic arm, and, upon command, to discharge said counted pills into said vial; b) providing a robotic mechanism located proximate said automatic pharmaceutical dispensing system, said robotic mechanism having a controller associated therewith and an effector at a distal end thereof, said effector being adapted to grasp a vial; c) providing an independent microprocessor operatively connected to each respective pill-counting mechanism for the control thereof, said plurality of independent microprocessors comprising at least one of: i) means for calculating a size of a vial necessary to contain said temporarily retained pills; ii) means for varying a velocity of said robotic mechanism based upon at least the fullness of a vial; iii) means for preventing access by said robotic mechanism to any of said group of pill-counting mechanisms disposed upon one of said movable shelves when said one movable shelf is withdrawn; iv) means for collecting said temporarily retained pills from said output buffer when an order therefore is cancelled after said pills have been counted from said supply into said output buffer; and v) means for suspending an order when said counting of said pills from said supply into said output buffer is interrupted because said supply of pills is exhausted prior to completion of counting; d) issuing a command to a predetermined one of said plurality of pill counting mechanisms to count a predetermined number of pills into said output buffer; e) moving said robotic mechanism in response to a command from said means for controlling to fetch a vial and to move said vial to said output region of said predetermined one of said plurality of pill-counting mechanisms; f) discharging said counted pills from said output buffer into said vial; and g) moving said robotic mechanism and said vial containing said discharged pills to an output station. 11. The method for utilizing a robotic mechanism in an automated prescription filling system as recited in claim 10, the steps further comprising: i) when required, using said robotic mechanism to move said vial to a labeling station. 12. The method for utilizing a robotic mechanism in an automated prescription filling system as recited in claim 11, wherein said labeling station comprises at least one of the types: manual labeling station and automated labeling station. 13. The method for utilizing a robotic mechanism in an automated prescription filling system as recited in claim 10, wherein at least two of said plurality of individual, independent pill-counting mechanisms may operate substantially simultaneously. 14. The method for utilizing a robotic mechanism in an automated prescription filling system as recited in claim 10, wherein said robotic mechanism is located proximate a front side of said automatic pharmaceutical dispenser. 15. The method for utilizing a robotic mechanism in an automated prescription filling system as recited in claim 14, wherein each of said plurality of individual, independent pill-counting mechanisms may be replenished from a side opposite said front side of said automatic pharmaceutical dispenser. 16. The method for utilizing a robotic mechanism in an automated prescription filling system as recited in claim 14, wherein each of said plurality of individual, independent pill-counting mechanisms may be serviced from a side opposite said front side of said automatic pharmaceutical dispenser. 