The present invention provides a method, system and apparatus for robotic refueling of satellites. The system may include a dedicated refueling satellite launched directly from either earth, or alternatively it could be launched from another larger mother spacecraft or space station in which the refueling satellite is ferried into space in the case of the larger space craft or it may be stored on the space station until needed from which it can be launched. The system includes a robotic arm, suitable tools which can be affixed to the end effector of the robotic arm required for accessing, opening and closing the fuel fill valve on the satellite being serviced, storage and retrieval stations on a tool caddy on which the tools and various fuel fill valve caps are stored. The system is under teleoperation by a remotely located operator, for example located on earth, in the mother station or in the space station. Cameras are included focussed on the robotic arm and end effector and images are transmitted to the operator to allow the operator to direct and control the refueling procedure. The system may also be configured to be operated autonomously under computer control.
Claims Therefore what is claimed is: 1. A system mounted on a servicing spacecraft for transferring fluid to a client satellite, the client satellite including a tank and a fluid port, the tank being coupled to the fluid port, the fluid port including a fluid valve having a valve actuation nut for opening and closing the fluid valve and an access valve cap on the fluid valve, comprising: fluid transfer means for transferring a fluid from a fluid tank on the servicing spacecraft to the tank on the client satellite, wherein the fluid is selected from the group consisting of fuel and oxidizer; tool means for removing and replacing the access valve cap, for coupling a fluid line to the fluid port and decoupling therefrom, and for actuating the valve actuation nut to open and close the fluid valve; sensing means for determining a relative displacement between said tool means and the fluid port; positioning means connected to said tool means, for positioning said tool means with respect to the fluid port; and control means in communication with said sensing means, said positioning means, and said tool means, for controlling operation of said positioning means and said tool means based on feedback from said sensing means. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the servicing spacecraft further includes docking means for docking to the client satellite, said docking means being spatially separated and functionally independent to said tool means; wherein in operation, the servicing spacecraft docks to the client satellite prior to coupling said fluid line to the fluid port. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein said control means includes a mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system including: a computer controller programmed to operate some or all of the fluid transferring operations, and a teleoperation system configured to have a human teleoperator remotely operate some or all of the system through a user interface, and wherein said mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system is configured to work in any one of three modes, including a first autonomous mode in which said computer controller controls all fluid transferring operations, a second teleoperation mode in which said human teleoperator remotely operates the system through a user interface to control all fluid transferring operations, and a third supervised autonomy mode in which the system is autonomously operated but all autonomous operations are monitored, can be halted and must be approved by a human operator. 4. The system according to claim 1 wherein said sensing means is at least one video camera positioned to view said tool means. 5. The system according to claim 1 wherein said sensing means is an artificial vision system. 6. The system according to claim 1 wherein said tool means also includes a blanket cutter for cutting any thermal blankets enveloping the access valve cap, a blanket spreader tool for spreading the cut thermal blanket to allow access to the fluid valve. 7. The system according to claim 1 wherein said tool means also includes an outer cap removal and replacement tool for removing and replacing any protective outer caps located on the fluid valve. 8. The system according to claim 1 wherein said positioning means connected to said tool means is a robotic arm having an end-effector attached at one end thereof, and another end of said robotic arm being attached to the servicing spacecraft, said tool means including a support frame and a grapple fixture bolted to said support frame, said end-effector being configured to grasp said grapple fixture. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the access valve cap is a B-nut. 10. The system according to claim 1 wherein said fluid line is a fluid fill line, and wherein the fluid valve is a fluid fill valve. 11. The system according to claim 1 wherein the fluid is a mono-propellant and wherein the client satellite is a mono-propellant propulsion system satellite. 12. The system according to claim 1 wherein said control means includes a teleoperation system configured for remote operation with a human teleoperator issuing commands via a user interface. 13. The system according to claim 12 wherein said human teleoperator is located either on another spacecraft, or located on Earth. 14. The system according to claim 1 wherein said control means is an autonomous control system including a computer controller programmed to operate all fluid transferring operations. 15. The system according to claim 14 wherein said computer controller is mounted on the servicing spacecraft. 16. The system according to claim 14 wherein said computer controller is remotely located from the servicing spacecraft on either another spacecraft or located on Earth. 17. The system according to claim 1 wherein said tool means includes a valve tool and a tool caddy which is mountable on the servicing spacecraft, said tool caddy including storage positions for storing and holding said valve tool and the access valve cap during fluid transferring operations, said tool caddy including a quick release mechanism for holding said valve tool and the access valve cap. 18. The system according to claim 17 wherein said sensing means includes at least two video cameras configured to view said tool caddy wherein images from said at least two video cameras are used to position an end effector on said positioning means relative to said tool caddy. 19. The system according to claim 17, wherein said tool caddy further includes storage positions for storing and holding a blanket cutter, a blanket spreader, an outer cap removal and replacement tool. 20. The system according to claim 1 wherein the system further includes second fluid transfer means for transferring a second fluid from a second fluid tank on the servicing spacecraft to a second tank on the client satellite, the second tank on the client satellite being coupled to a second fluid port, and wherein the second fluid is selected from the group consisting of fuel and oxidizer; wherein said tool means is capable of attaching a second fluid line to said second fluid port and decoupling said second fluid line therefrom; wherein said second fluid port includes a second fluid valve and a second valve actuation nut on said second fluid valve for opening and closing said second fluid valve and a second access valve cap on said second fluid valve; and wherein said tool means includes means for removing and replacing said second access valve cap, and means for engaging said second fluid valve for coupling said second fluid line to said second fluid port. 21. The system according to claim 20 wherein the fluid is fuel and the second fluid is oxidizer. 22. The system according to claim 20 wherein the client satellite is a bi-propellant propulsion system satellite. 23. The system according to claim 20 wherein said tool means includes a valve tool having interchangeable tool modules, said interchangeable tool modules including: at least one first tool module for removing and replacing the access valve cap and said second access valve cap, and at least one second tool module for engaging the fluid valve for coupling said fluid line to the fluid port and for engaging said second fluid valve for coupling said second fluid line to said second fluid port, and wherein said second access valve cap is a B-Nut. 24. The system according to claim 20 wherein said tool means includes a valve tool having interchangeable tool modules, said interchangeable tool modules including: a first tool module for removing and replacing the access valve cap, a second tool module for removing and replacing and said second access valve cap, and a third tool module for engaging the fluid valve for coupling said fluid line to the fluid port, and a fourth tool module for engaging said second fluid valve for coupling said second fluid line to said second fluid port, wherein the access valve cap is a B-nut, and wherein said second access valve cap is a B-Nut. 25. The system according to claim 1 wherein said tool means includes a valve tool having interchangeable tool modules, said interchangeable tool modules including: at least one first tool module for removing and replacing the access valve cap, and at least one second tool module for engaging fuel fill fluid valve for coupling said fluid line to the fluid port, and a third tool module for actuating the valve actuation nut. 26. The system according to claim 25 wherein said valve tool includes a support frame and a tool module holder mechanism mounted on said support frame configured to accept said interchangeable tool modules, and wherein said valve tool includes a tool drive mechanism mounted on said support frame for actuating said interchangeable tool modules when seated in said tool module holder mechanism, and wherein said valve tool includes a clamping mechanism mounted on said support frame to secure said valve tool to a reaction area on the fluid valve, said clamping mechanism being configured to localize torque generated by said valve tool for ensuring that any reaction torques from said tool drive mechanism are reacted locally to prevent damage to the fluid valve. 27. The system according to claim 26 including at least two alignment cameras mounted to provide at least two orthogonal camera views for aligning a centre of said valve tool with the fluid valve and providing views of contact surfaces located on said valve tool. 28. The system according to claim 26 wherein said clamping mechanism is a double four-bar linkage having an elongate clamp-shaft, a first and second clamp-link each connected to said clamp-shaft, two clamp-fingers pivotally connected together at first ends thereof and a second end of one clamp-finger being connected to said first clamp-link, and a second end of said other clamp-finger being connected to said second clamp-link, including a gear-motor connected to an end of said clamp-shaft through a flexible coupling for rotating said clamp-shaft about a drive axis of said clamp-shaft, wherein when said gear-motor is actuated, said clamp-shaft rotates for said clamping mechanism to go from open position to closed position, and wherein said first and second clamp-link push and pull respectively said two clamp-fingers closed or open in a plane substantially perpendicular to said drive axis, wherein said two clamp-fingers have opposed surfaces for gripping a fluid fill valve stem, and wherein the geometry of said four-bar linkage is selected so that in a fully closed position, said first and second clamp-link are over the centre of said drive axis. 29. The system according to claim 26 wherein said support frame includes a lower base section, a mid base section and an upper base section, said lower base section having a passageway and associated lead-ins configured to receive therein a portion of the fluid valve, and wherein said tool module holder mechanism is mounted in said mid base section such that when one of said interchangeable tool modules is located in said tool module holder mechanism, a portion of said one of said interchangeable tool modules projects into said passageway to engage the fluid value. 30. The system according to claim 29 wherein said passageway includes a chamfered portion spaced from said lead-ins having dimensions such that during insertion of the fluid valve, said chamfered portion in combination with said lead-ins aid in insertion of the fluid valve and prevent jamming of same. 31. The system according to claim 26 wherein said tool means includes a tool caddy which is mountable on the servicing spacecraft, said tool caddy including storage stations for storing and holding said at least one first tool module and said at least one second tool module; wherein said storage stations each include a tool module retaining plate and a tab mounted thereon, and wherein said tool module retaining plate includes a spring ball detent; wherein each of said at least one first tool module and each of said at least one second tool module include a groove extending around a periphery thereof; and wherein said groove on each tool module is configured to mate with said spring ball detent to hold said tool module in place in each of said storage stations. 32. The system according to claim 31 wherein said tool module holder mechanism includes a tool module holder and a module retaining bar rotationally mounted to said tool module holder, and wherein said module retaining bar includes a detent mechanism that holds said module retaining bar in either an "open" or "closed" position, and wherein said groove in said at least one first tool module and said at least one second tool module each have a size sufficient to receive therein said module retaining bar, and wherein when said valve tool is fully engaged to said tool caddy said module retaining bar is activated by said tab on said tool module retaining plate, and wherein said tab has a portion with a diameter slightly larger than an outer diameter of said tool module holder, and wherein when said valve tool is fully engaged to said tool caddy for either retrieving a given tool module from one of said storage station stations or returning said given tool module to one of said storage stations, said module retaining bar protrudes outside of this diameter of said tab, and when said tool drive mechanism is activated said module retaining bar will eventually come in contact with said tab on said tool module retaining plate and be toggled to the opposite position, and wherein driving said tool module in one direction will lock said tool module in said tool module holder, and conversely, driving said tool module in the opposite direction will unlock said tool module. 33. The system according to claim 26 wherein said tool means includes a blanket cutter for cutting any thermal blankets enveloping the access valve cap, a blanket spreader tool for spreading the cut thermal blanket to allow access to the fluid valve, and an outer cap removal and replacement tool for removing and replacing any protective outer caps located on the fluid valve. 34. The system according to claim 33 wherein said tool means includes a tool caddy which is mountable on the servicing spacecraft, said tool caddy including storage stations for storing and holding said valve tool, said blanket cutter, said blanket spreader tool, said outer cap removal and replacement tool, said at least one first tool module, said at least one second tool module, and the access valve cap during fluid transferring operations, said tool caddy including quick release mechanism for holding said interchangeable tool modules and the access valve cap. 35. The system according to claim 34 wherein said sensing means is configured to view said tool caddy wherein images from said sensing means are used to position an end effector on said positioning means relative to said tool caddy. 36. The system according to claim 35 including at least two alignment cameras mounted to provide at least two orthogonal camera views for aligning a centre of said valve tool with the fluid valve and providing views of contact surfaces located on said valve tool. 37. The system according to claim 36 including features located on said support frame located to allow easy interpretation of position using images from said at least two alignment cameras. 38. A system mounted on a servicing spacecraft for transferring fluid to a client satellite, the client satellite including a tank and a fluid port, the tank being coupled to the fluid port, the fluid port including a fluid valve having a valve actuation nut for opening and closing the fluid valve and an access valve cap on the fluid valve, comprising: a fluid transfer system for transferring a fluid from a fluid tank on the servicing spacecraft to the fluid tank on the client satellite, wherein the fluid is selected from the group consisting of fuel and oxidizer; a robotic arm having a tool for coupling a fluid line to the fluid port and for decoupling therefrom; at least one sensor for determining a relative displacement between said tool and the fluid port; a controller in communication with said at least one sensor and said robotic arm, for controlling operation of said robotic arm based on feedback from said at least one sensor; and wherein said tool is capable of removing and replacing the access valve cap, coupling the fluid valve to the fluid port, and actuating the valve actuation nut to open and close the fluid valve. 39. The system according to claim 38 wherein the fluid is a mono-propellant and wherein the client satellite is a mono-propellant propulsion system satellite. 40. The system according to claim 38 wherein the servicing spacecraft further includes a docking interface for docking to the client satellite, said docking interface being spatially separated and functionally independent to said tool; wherein in operation, the servicing spacecraft docks to the client satellite prior to coupling said fluid line to the fluid port. 41. The system according to claim 38 wherein said controller includes a teleoperation system configured for remote operation with a human teleoperator issuing commands via a user interface. 42. The system according to claim 38 wherein said controller includes a mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system including: a computer controller programmed to operate some or all of the fluid transferring operations, and a teleoperation system configured to have a human teleoperator remotely operate some or all of the system through a user interface, and wherein said mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system is configured to work in any one of three modes, including a first autonomous mode in which said computer controller controls all fluid transferring operations, a second teleoperation mode in which said human teleoperator remotely operates the system through a user interface to control all fluid transferring operations, and a third supervised autonomy mode in which the system is autonomously operated but all autonomous operations are monitored, can be halted and must be approved by a human operator. 43. The system according to claim 38 wherein said at least one sensor includes at least one video camera positioned to view said tool. 44. The system according to claim 38 wherein said at least one sensor is an artificial vision system. 45. The system according to claim 38 wherein said tool includes interchangeable tool modules, said interchangeable tool modules including: at least one first tool module for removing and replacing the access valve cap, and at least one second tool module for engaging the fluid valve for coupling said fluid line to the fluid tank. 46. The system according to claim 45 wherein said tool includes a support frame and a tool module holder mechanism mounted on said support frame configured to accept said interchangeable tool modules, and wherein said tool includes a tool drive mechanism mounted on said support frame for actuating said interchangeable tool modules when seated in said tool module holder mechanism, and wherein said tool includes a clamping mechanism mounted on said support frame to secure said tool to a reaction area on the fluid valve, said clamping mechanism being configured to localize torque generated by said tool for ensuring that any reaction torques from said tool drive mechanism are reacted locally to prevent damage to the fluid valve, and wherein said tool includes a valve actuation mechanism mounted on said support frame to engage and actuate the valve actuation nut. 47. The system according to claim 46 further including a tool caddy which is mountable on the servicing spacecraft, said tool caddy including storage positions for storing and holding said tool, a blanket cutter, a blanket spreader, an outer cap removal and replacement tool, said at least one first tool module, said at least one second tool module, and the access valve cap during fluid transferring operations, said tool caddy including a quick release mechanism for holding said interchangeable tool modules and said access valve cap. 48. The system according to claim 46 wherein said support frame includes a lower base section, a mid base section and an upper base section, said lower base section having a passageway and associated lead-ins configured to receive therein a portion of the fluid valve, and wherein said tool module holder mechanism is mounted in said mid base section such that when one of said interchangeable tool modules is located in said tool module holder mechanism, a portion of said one of said interchangeable tool modules projects into said passageway to engage the fluid valve. 49. The system according to claim 38 wherein said fluid transfer system is further capable of transferring a second fluid from a second fluid tank to a second tank on the client satellite, wherein said second fluid storage tank is coupled to a second fluid port, and wherein said second fluid is selected from the group consisting of fuel and oxidizer; wherein robotic arm is further capable of attaching a second fluid line to said second fluid port and decoupling said second fluid line therefrom; wherein said second fluid port includes a second fluid valve and a second valve actuation nut on said second fluid valve for opening and closing said second fluid valve and a second access valve cap on said second fluid valve; and wherein said tool further includes means for removing and replacing said second access valve cap, and means for engaging said second fluid valve for coupling said second fluid line to said second fluid port. 50. The system according to claim 49 wherein the fluid is fuel and said second fluid is oxidizer. 51. The system according to claim 50 wherein the client satellite is a bi-propellant propulsion system satellite. 52. A system mounted on a servicing spacecraft for transferring fluid to a client satellite, the client satellite including a tank and a fluid port, the tank being coupled to the fluid port, the fluid port including a fluid valve having an access valve cap, comprising: docking means for docking to the client satellite; fluid transfer means for transferring at least one fluid from at least one fluid tank to at least one fluid storage tank on the client satellite, wherein the fluid is selected from the group consisting of fuel and oxidizer; tool means for removing and replacing the access valve cap, for coupling a fluid line to the fluid port and decoupling therefrom, and means for opening and closing the fluid valve; sensing means for determining a relative displacement between said tool means and the fluid port; positioning means connected to said tool means, for positioning said tool means with respect to the fluid port for coupling and decoupling the fluid line to the fluid port; control means in communication with said sensing means, said positioning means, and said tool means, for controlling operation of said positioning means and said tool means based on feedback from said sensing means; wherein said control means is a mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system including: a computer controller programmed to operate some or all of the fluid transferring operations, and a teleoperation system configured to have a human teleoperator remotely operate some or all of the system through a user interface, and wherein said mixed autonomous/teleoperation control system is configured to work in any one of these three modes, including a first autonomous mode in which said computer controller controls all fluid transferring operations, a second teleoperations mode in which said human teleoperator remotely operates the system through a user interface to control all fluid transferring operations, and a third supervised autonomy mode in which the system is autonomously operated but all autonomous operations are monitored, can be halted and must be approved by a human operator; and wherein said sensing means includes at least two video cameras. 