A robot system includes s a robot (1) which moves a tool (3) attached to an end of the robot (1) by driving a robot drive shaft. The tool (3) applies a laser beam inputted from a laser oscillator (5) by drive of the tool drive shaft to an object. A robot control device (2) controls the robot drive shaft and the tool drive shaft in synchronization.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot system comprising: a robot including a first plurality of driving shafts; a tool which is fitted on a front end portion of the robot and includes a second plurality of driving shafts for driving different parts of the tool; a robot control device which controls the driving shafts of the robot and the driving shafts of the tool, the robot control device including a robot shaft calculator and a tool shaft calculator; and a laser oscillator connected to the tool, wherein: the robot shaft calculator calculates, every control cycle, the position and posture of a coordinate system fixed to the tool as viewed in the robot coordinate system on the basis of the position and posture of a first tool coordinate system as viewed in the robot coordinate system, the position and posture of a second tool coordinate system as viewed in the robot coordinate system, and the times of control cycle, and the robot moves the tool with a drive of the first plurality of driving shafts of the robot, the laser oscillator outputs a laser beam, which is incident on the tool and directed to an object using a drive of the second plurality of driving shafts of the tool, and the robot control device controls the first plurality of driving shafts of the robot and the second plurality of driving shafts of the tool in synchronization with each other, and a focal position of the laser beam is calculated based on calculating a radiation start position of the laser beam and a radiation end position of the laser beam as viewed in the robot coordinate system, wherein: the tool shaft calculator includes a position calculating section which calculates the radiation start position of the laser beam as viewed in the robot coordinate system fixed to the base of the robot and which calculates the radiation end position of the laser beam as viewed in the robot coordinate system on the basis of a position and posture of the second tool coordinate system, which is fixed to the position of the tool at the time of instructing the radiation end position of the laser beam, as viewed in the robot coordinate system and the focal position radiation end position of the laser beam as viewed in the second tool coordinate system; a calculating section of times of control cycle which calculates a vector of the radiation area and the times of control cycle on the basis of the radiation start position, the radiation end position, and the moving speed of the focal position of the laser beam in the radiation area of the laser beam; and a laser position instruction generating section which calculates the focal position of the laser beam every control cycle as viewed in the coordinate system fixed to the tool on the basis of the position and posture of the robot coordinate system fixed to the tool every control cycle as viewed in the robot coordinate system the vector of the radiation area, and the times of control cycle, and on the basis of the radiation start position as viewed in the robot coordinate system. 2. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the tool includes a lens which is disposed in a traveling path of the laser beam, and the lens is moved in an axial direction of the lens using the second plurality of driving shafts, wherein the axial direction of the lens is a traveling direction of the laser beam, and the robot control device controls a focal position of the laser beam by driving the second plurality of driving shafts of the tool to operate the lens. 3. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the tool includes a mirror which is disposed in a traveling path of the laser beam and the mirror is rotated using the second plurality of driving shafts of the tool, and the robot control device controls a focal position of the laser beam by driving the second plurality of driving shafts of the tool to rotate the mirror. 4. The robot system according to claim 3, wherein an initial position of a control point of the robot is configured to be a rotation center of the mirror, and the robot robot shaft calculator calculates a position of the control point of the robot, and the tool shaft calculator calculates an operation instruction transmitted to the second plurality of driving shafts of the tool from the position of the control point of the robot and a preset focal position of the laser beam. 5. The robot system according to claim 4, wherein the robot control device includes: a manipulator file storage for storing the position of the control point of the robot and the focal position of the laser beam. 6. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the robot control device includes a start command for starting the radiation of the laser beam and an end command for ending the radiation, and the start command sets an interpolation method and a moving speed of the focal position of the laser beam in a radiation area. 7. The robot system according to claim 6, wherein at least one of the start command and the end command changes an output instruction value transmitted to the laser oscillator from a first value to a second value at a predetermined time. 8. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the first plurality of driving shafts and the second plurality of driving shafts start and stop at substantially the same time. 9. The robot system according to claim 1, wherein the tool shaft calculator generates a locus of the focal position of the laser beam including a combination of two circular arcs and one line on the basis of two instructed focal position of the laser beam and a radius and an angle of a circular arc using the specified focal positions of the laser beam as end points. 10. The robot system according to claim 9, wherein the tool shaft calculator generates the locus based on a slope of a plane including the specified locus. 11. The robot system according to claim 9, wherein the tool shaft calculator generates the locus including the combination of two circular arcs and one line on the basis of a radius and an angle of a first circular arc using one of the two instructed focal positions of the laser beam as an end point and a radius and an angle of a second circular arc using the other instructed focal position of the laser beam as an end point. 12. The robot system according to claim 9, wherein the tool shaft calculator calculates a position of the tool such that the laser beam generates the locus. 13. The robot system according to claim 9, wherein the tool shaft calculator generates an auxiliary point apart from a start point of the locus by a specified distance in the front of the start point, and adds an auxiliary locus, which connects the auxiliary point to the start point, to the locus. 14. The robot system according to claim 9, wherein the tool shaft calculator generates an auxiliary point apart from an end point of the locus by a specified distance in the back of the end point and adds an auxiliary locus, which connects the auxiliary point to the end point, to the locus. 15. The robot system according to claim 9, wherein the tool shaft calculator calculates the shape of the generated locus by the specified radius and angle of the circular arc. 16. The robot system according to claim 15, wherein the tool shaft calculator calculates a line as the generated locus when the radius of the specified circular arc is 0. 17. The robot system according to claim 15, wherein the tool shaft calculator calculates the generated locus as a U-shape when the angle of the specified circular arc is 0 degrees. 18. The robot system according to claim 15, wherein the tool shaft calculator calculates a circle as the generated locus when the angle of the specified circular arc is 360 degrees or more. 