Adaptable self-powered sensor node and methods of operation providing real-time monitoring and management of node operation. The adaptable self-powered sensor node incorporates an adaptable generator and a radio transmitter to operate remotely without the need for power or communication wiring. Data analysis capabilities provide for maximizing information extracted from sensors and analysis and providing control or reporting information utilizing a strategy to minimize energy usage while reducing information entropy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adaptive self-powered sensor node system, comprising: a sensing component associated with a sensor node and configured to collect information relating to a state of a device; and an entropy calculation component configured to operate the sensor node according to an entropy reduction strategy formulated based on a calculated entropy of the information and a measured resource constraint of the sensor node, wherein the measured resource constraint comprises at least an amount of available power for the sensor node. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a generator component configured to transform vibration energy received by the sensing component into electrical energy and to employ the electrical energy to power the sensor node. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the sensing component comprises a piezo-electric component configured to power the sensing component. 4. The system of claim 3, further comprising a tuning component configured to selectively tune the sensor node as a function of a utility-based analysis that factors a cost of tuning with one or more benefits of tuning. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the tuning component is configured to adjust a seismic mass component associated with the piezo-electric component to substantially match a resonant frequency of vibration of the piezo-electric component with a selected vibration frequency of the device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the information comprises vibration information associated with the device. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensing component further comprises a wireless transceiver configured to exchange data with a server. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the entropy calculation component is configured to select a duration of a quiescent state for the sensor node based at least in part on the calculated entropy of the information and the amount of available power for the sensor node. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the measured resource constraint further comprises an available processing time for the sensor node. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the entropy calculation component is configured to select the entropy reduction strategy from a set of permissible entropy reduction strategies based on a calculation that estimates, for at least one of the strategies in the set of permissible entropy reduction strategies, an expected change in information entropy and an expected energy expenditure. 11. An adaptive self-powered sensor node system, comprising: means for collecting state information for a device; means for selecting a strategy for at least one of collecting or processing the state information based at least in part on a calculated entropy of the state information and a measured resource constraint of the sensor node, wherein the measured resource constraint is at least an amount of available power for the sensor node; and means for operating the sensor node according to the strategy. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: means for selectively tuning the sensor node as a function of a utility-based analysis that factors a cost of tuning with one or more benefits of tuning. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: means for tuning a resonant vibration frequency of a piezo-electric cantilever beam to substantially match a resonant frequency of the device. 14. The system of claim 11, further comprising means for setting a duration of time in which the sensor node remains in a quiescent state as a function of the level of information entropy and the amount of available power for the sensor node. 15. A method for optimizing accuracy of information from a monitored system, comprising: collecting information relating to a state of a monitored device using a sensor node; calculating a level of information entropy associated with the information; measuring a resource constraint for the sensor node including measuring at least an amount of available power for the sensor node; and in response to determining that the level of information entropy exceeds a predetermined level: selecting an entropy reduction strategy for operating the sensor node based at least in part on the level of information entropy and the resource constraint; and operating the sensor node in accordance with the entropy reduction strategy. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the collecting information comprises collecting vibration information for the monitored device. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the selecting the entropy reduction strategy comprises setting a time duration for a quiescent state of the sensor node as a function of the level of information entropy and the amount of available power for the sensor node. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the selecting the entropy reduction strategy comprises determining an amount of processing to be performed on previously collected data as a function of the level of information entropy and the resource constraint of the sensor node. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the selecting the entropy reduction strategy comprises electing to perform tuning on a resonant frequency of a piezo-electric element associated with the sensor node and to monitor results of the tuning. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the selecting the entropy reduction strategy comprises electing to exchange and compare state information with a different sensor node given the level of information entropy and the resource constraint. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein the operating the sensor node comprises operating the sensor node in accordance with the entropy reduction strategy until determining that the level of information entropy is below the predetermined level or until determining that the level of information entropy cannot be further reduced. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein the selecting the entropy reduction strategy comprises predicting an amount of reduction in the level of information entropy afforded by a given strategy and an amount of expended sensor node power required for the given strategy. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the tuning comprises tuning a resonant frequency of a piezo-electric element associated with the sensor node as a function of a utility-based analysis that factors a cost of the tuning with one or more expected benefits of the tuning. 