An autonomous vehicle comprises one or more sensors configured to obtain data regarding conditions which affect movement of the autonomous vehicle; a speed planner coupled to the one or more sensors and configured to calculate a desired speed based, at least in part, on the data obtained from the one or more sensors; and one or more actuators responsive to signals from the speed planner and configured to adjust the speed of the autonomous vehicle based on the desired speed calculated by the speed planner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous vehicle comprising: one or more sensors configured to obtain data regarding conditions which affect movement of the autonomous vehicle; a speed planner coupled to the one or more sensors and configured to calculate a desired speed based, at least in part, on the data obtained from the one or more sensors; a control system configured to calculate speed commands based, at least in part, on the speed calculated by the speed planner; and one or more actuators configured to adjust the speed of the autonomous vehicle based on the speed commands from the control system; wherein the speed planner is further configured to output a speed command category associated with the desired speed. 2. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the autonomous vehicle is one of an autonomous aerial vehicle, an autonomous ground vehicle, an autonomous surface vehicle, and an autonomous underwater vehicle. 3. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the speed planner is implemented in one of an application specific integrated circuit and a field programmable gate array. 4. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the speed planner is further configured to calculate a desired speed for each of a plurality of points along a planned path. 5. The autonomous vehicle of claim 4, further comprising a path planner configured to calculate the planned path and provide the speed planner with the planned path. 6. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors are configured to detect obstacles; wherein the speed planner is configured to calculate the desired speed such that the desired speed is the maximum safe speed when no obstacles are detected and the minimum safe speed when obstacles are detected. 7. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the speed planner is configured to calculate a desired speed which does not cause the autonomous vehicle to violate one or more constraints. 8. The autonomous vehicle of claim 7, wherein each of the one or more constraints is assigned a priority, wherein the speed planner is configured to allow violation of a lower priority constraint in order to avoid violation of a higher priority constraint. 9. A method of regulating the speed of an autonomous vehicle, the method comprising: receiving an input from one or more sensors regarding conditions which affect the movement of the autonomous vehicle; calculating a desired speed based, at least in part, on the received input; and outputting the desired speed to a control system configured to use the output desired speed to calculate speed commands for use by one or more actuators to adjust the speed of the autonomous vehicle; wherein outputting the desired speed includes outputting a speed command category associated with the desired speed. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein calculating the desired speed comprises calculating a desired speed for each of a plurality of points along a planned path. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein calculating the desired speed comprises calculating the desired speed for the entire length of a planned path. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein calculating the desired speed includes calculating the desired speed based on one or more prioritized constraints such that the autonomous vehicle does not violate the one or more prioritized constraints. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein calculating the desired speed based on one or more prioritized constraints includes permitting violation of a lower priority constraint in order to avoid violating a higher priority constraint. 14. A program product comprising program instructions embodied on a processor-readable medium for execution by a programmable processor, wherein the program instructions are operable to cause the programmable processor to: calculate a desired speed of an autonomous vehicle based on data received regarding conditions which affect movement of the autonomous vehicle and on one or more prioritized constraints; and output the calculated speed to a control system configured to use the output speed to calculate speed commands for use by one or more actuators to adjust the speed of the autonomous vehicle. 15. The program product of claim 14, wherein the data received regarding conditions which affect movement of the autonomous vehicle includes data regarding detected obstacles, wherein the program instructions are further operable to cause the programmable processor to calculate the desired speed such that the desired speed is a maximum safe speed when the received data indicates that no obstacles are detected and a minimum safe speed when the received data indicates that obstacles are detected. 16. The program product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further operable to cause the programmable processor to calculate a desired speed for each of a plurality of points along a planned path. 17. The program product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions are further operable to cause the programmable processor to calculate the desired speed by allowing violation of a lower priority constraint in order to avoid violation of a higher priority constraint. 