A linear position transducer reliably and wirelessly tracks rapid motion. The transducer includes a scale, a control head, and a wirelessly-powered read head disposed proximate to the scale. The read head is configured to sense movement between the scale and the read head and to wirelessly communicate position data to the control head. The control head can include a wireless data receiver to receive position data from the read head, an output data driver to communicate with an external device, and a microcontroller to coordinate a data transfer between the wireless data receiver and the output data driver. In addition, the read head can include a wireless data transmitter to transmit position data to the control head, a linear position sensor to sense position along the scale, and a microcontroller to calculate a position measurement from the scale. The microcontroller in the read head can also coordinate a data transfer between the wireless data transmitter and the control head. To provide a complete wireless solution, the linear position transducer also includes a power system to wirelessly transfer energy from the control head to the read head.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A linear position transducer comprising: a scale; a control head; and a wirelessly-powered read head disposed proximate to the scale, the read head configured to sense movement between the scale and the read head and to wirelessly communicate position data to the control head. 2. The linear position transducer of claim 1, further comprising: a power system to wirelessly transfer energy from the control head to the read head. 3. The linear position transducer of claim 2, wherein the power system comprises: a first coil wound around a first ferromagnetic core, wherein the first ferromagnetic core is located in the scale and has a wired connection to the control head; a second coil wound around a second ferromagnetic core, wherein the second ferromagnetic core is located in the read head, and wherein the first and second ferromagnetic cores are disposed in close proximity to one another to allow energy transfer via magnetic flux coupling between the cores; and a rectifier circuit located in the read head and coupled to the second coil to rectify an AC power signal generated by the second coil. 4. The linear position transducer of claim 3, wherein the power system further comprises a voltage regulator to set an appropriate DC voltage level for electronic devices within the read head. 5. The linear position transducer of claim 1, wherein the scale comprises an N scale to measure incremental position. 6. The linear position transducer of claim 1, wherein the scale comprises an N scale and an N-1 scale to measure absolute position. 7. The linear position transducer of claim 1, wherein the scale comprises a combination of a linear scale and a non-linear scale to measure absolute position. 8. The linear position transducer of claim 1, wherein the scale comprises a rod having a hollow shaft formed therein and a plurality of spherical balls disposed in the shaft. 9. The linear position transducer of claim 1, wherein the control head comprises: a wireless data receiver to receive position data from the read head; an output data driver to transfer the position data to an external device; and a microcontroller to coordinate a data transfer between the wireless data receiver and the output data driver. 10. The linear position transducer of claim 1, wherein the wirelessly-powered read head comprises: a wireless data transmitter to transmit position data to the control head; and a linear position sensor to sense position along the scale. 11. A method for generating a linear position measurement, comprising: wirelessly powering a read head to measure position along a scale; and wirelessly transmitting position data from the read head to a control head. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: distributing position data received by the control head to an external device. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the wirelessly powering step comprises providing power to the read head via inductive energy transfer. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the wirelessly powering step comprises providing power to the read head via RF energy transfer. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the wirelessly powering step comprises providing power to the read head via vibrational energy from the read head moving along the scale. 16. A wireless read head for use in a linear position transducer, comprising: means for sensing a change in relative position between the read head and a scale and producing a position signal; means for transmitting the position signal; and means for wirelessly receiving energy from a remote source and for using the energy to power the sensing means and the transmitting means. 17. The wireless read head of claim 16, wherein said wirelessly receiving means comprises: means for receiving inductive energy. 18. The wireless read head of claim 16, wherein said wirelessly receiving means comprises: means for receiving RF energy. 19. The wireless read head of claim 16, wherein said wirelessly receiving means comprises: means for converting vibrational energy from the read head moving along the scale into useful energy. 