A method of estimating the impulse response of a channel is disclosed. The method includes transmitting an impulse signal to the channel, detecting a received signal from the channel at a receiver, and calculating an estimate of the impulse response of the channel by applying a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the received signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: controlling a transmitter to transmit an impulse signal to the channel; detecting a received signal from the channel at a receiver; and calculating an estimate of the impulse response of the channel by applying a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the received signal, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmitting the impulse signal. 2. A method of mapping an environment, the method comprising: controlling a transmitter to transmit an impulse signal into the environment; detecting a return signal from the environment at a receiver; and applying a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the return signal, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmitting the impulse signal. 3. A method of tracking an object, the method comprising: controlling a transmitter to transmit an impulse signal; recording a reflection of the impulse signal from the object received at a receiver; and applying a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the reflected signal, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmitting the impulse signal. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising transmitting the impulse signal in a continuing manner. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4, comprising transmitting the impulse signal continuously or continually. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, comprising calculating the inverse matrix. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the calculated inverse matrix comprises a ridge inverse matrix. 8. The method as claimed claim 1, wherein the calculated inverse matrix comprises a Moore-Penrose inverse matrix. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the impulse is an acoustic impulse. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the impulse is an ultrasonic impulse. 11. The method as claimed in claim 10 wherein the center of the bandwidth of the impulse is between 20 and 50 kHz. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising sampling the received signal using a sliding window. 13. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising generating the impulse signal from a non-repeating code. 14. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising generating the impulse signal from a code having at least some respective portions linearly independent of one another. 15. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the impulse signal comprises white noise. 16. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising limiting the bandwidth of the impulse signal to a fraction of the bandwidth of the transmitter and receiver subsystem. 17. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising calculating a subset of rows and/or columns of the inverse matrix and interpolating between the subset to complete the calculated inverse matrix. 18. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the calculated inverse matrix comprises a pair of matrices derived from a subset of a singular value decomposition of the impulse signal matrix, the method further comprising multiplying the pair of matrices by a vector containing samples of the received signal. 19. The method as claimed in claim 18, further comprising selecting a subset of samples of the received signal to produce a subset vector and multiplying the pair of matrices by the subset vector. 20. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising constructing a position diagram based on an estimated channel response resulting from of the applying of the calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the return signal. 21. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising driving a plurality of transmitters by respective signals from the same frequency band, and separating the received signals at the receiver. 22. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising combining a plurality of estimated channel responses using ellipse or ellipsoid intersection. 23. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising sampling the impulse signal and the received response signal at the same rate. 24. A system, comprising: a transmitter; a receiver; and logic configured to calculate an inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted by the transmitter, and to apply the calculated inverse matrix to a signal received by the receiver, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmission of the impulse signal. 25. A tracking system, comprising: a transmitter; a receiver; and logic configured to calculate an inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted by the transmitter, and to apply the calculated inverse matrix to a signal received by the receiver, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmission of the impulse signal. 26. A mapping system configured to map an environment, the system comprising: a transmitter configured to transmit an impulse signal into the environment; a receiver configured to detect a return signal from the environment; and logic configured to calculate an inverse matrix of the impulse signal, and to apply the calculated inverse matrix to the return signal, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmission of the impulse signal. 27. The system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the transmitter is configured to transmit the impulse signal in a continuing manner. 28. The system as claimed in claim 27 wherein the transmitter is configured to transmit the impulse signal continuously or continually. 29. The system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the calculated inverse matrix comprises a ridge inverse matrix. 30. The system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the calculated inverse matrix comprises a Moore-Penrose inverse matrix. 31. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic for generating an acoustic impulse. 32. The system as claimed in claim 31 wherein the impulse is ultrasonic. 33. The system as claimed in claim 27 wherein the center of the bandwidth of the impulse is between 20 and 50 kHz. 34. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to sample the received signal using a sliding window. 35. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to generate the impulse signal from a non-repeating code. 36. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to generate the impulse signal from a code having at least some respective portions linearly independent of one another. 37. The system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the impulse signal comprises substantially white noise. 38. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to generate the impulse signal with a bandwidth which is a fraction of the bandwidth of the transmitter and receiver subsystem. 39. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to select a subset of rows and/or columns of the inverse matrix to calculate. 40. The system as claimed in claim 39 comprising logic configured to interpolate between the subset of rows and/or columns in the calculated inverse matrix. 41. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to decompose the calculated inverse matrix into a pair of matrices derived from a subset of a singular value decomposition of the impulse signal matrix. 42. The system as claimed in claim 41, further comprising logic configured to select a subset of samples of the received signal to produce a subset vector and multiplying the pair of matrices by the subset vector. 43. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to construct a position diagram based on an estimated channel response resulting from applying the calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the return signal. 44. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising a plurality of transmitters configured to be driven by respective signals from the same frequency band; the receiver being configured to separate the respective received signals. 45. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising means for combining a plurality of estimated channel responses using ellipse or ellipsoid intersection. 46. The system as claimed in claim 24, further comprising logic configured to sample the impulse signal and the received response signal at the same rate. 47. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 1. 48. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 2. 49. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 3. 50. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform a method, the method comprising estimating the impulse response of a channel by applying a calculated inverse matrix of a matrix representing a transmitted signal to a plurality of samples of a received response signal, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmission of the impulse signal. 51. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform a method, the method comprising: mapping an environment by applying a calculated inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted into the environment to a return signal from the environment; and calculating a representation of the environment from the return signal, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmission of the impulse signal. 52. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform a method, the method comprising: tracking an object by applying a calculated inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted towards the object to a return signal reflected from the object; and calculating a location of the object from the return signal, wherein said inverse matrix is calculated prior to transmission of the impulse signal. 53. A method comprising: controlling a transmitter to transmit an impulse signal to the channel; detecting a received signal from the channel at a receiver; sampling the received signal using a sliding window; and calculating an estimate of the impulse response of the channel by applying a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the received signal. 54. A method of mapping an environment, the method comprising: controlling a transmitter to transmit an impulse signal into the environment; detecting a return signal from the environment at a receiver; sampling the received signal using a sliding window; and applying a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the return signal. 55. A method of tracking an object, the method comprising: controlling a transmitter to transmit an impulse signal; sampling a reflection of the impulse signal from the object received at a receiver, using a sliding window; and applying a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the reflected signal. 56. A system comprising: a transmitter; a receiver; a sampler configured to sample a signal received by the receiver using a sliding window; and logic configured to apply a calculated inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted by the transmitter to the received signal. 57. A tracking system comprising: a transmitter; a receiver; a sampler configured to sample a signal received by the receiver using a sliding window; and logic configured to apply a calculated inverse matrix of an impulse signal transmitted by the transmitter to the received signal. 58. A mapping system configured to map an environment, the system comprising: a transmitter configured to transmit an impulse signal into the environment; a receiver configured to detect a return signal from the environment; a sampler configured to sample the return signal using a sliding window; and logic configured to apply a calculated inverse matrix of the impulse signal to the return signal. 59. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 53. 60. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 54. 61. A computer readable medium comprising instructions, which, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method of claim 55. 