Various embodiments of a biological interface system and related methods are disclosed. The system may comprise a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals emanating from one or more living cells of a patient and a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor and process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal. The processing unit may be configured to transmit the processed signal to a controlled device that is configured to receive the processed signal. The system is configured to perform an integrated patient training routine to generate one or more system configuration parameters that are used by the processing unit to produce the processed signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A biological interface system comprising: a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals emanating from two or more living cells of a patient; a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor and process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal, the processing unit being configured to transmit the processed signal to a controlled device that is configured to receive the processed signal; a surrogate of the controlled device for use during an integrated patient training routine, the surrogate configured to be more complex than the controlled device, wherein the system is configured to perform the integrated patient training routine using the surrogate of the controlled device to generate one or more system configuration parameters that are used by the processing unit to produce the processed signal, wherein the system is configured such that the patient training routine is performed at least once during use of the system, wherein the system is configured to set a threshold value for determining the successful completion of the training routine, and wherein less than full control of the controlled device is available to the patient prior to successful completion of the patient training routine. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient training routine provides one or more time varying stimulus to the patient. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to allow an operator to perform the patient training routine. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the operator comprises the patient. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second controlled device, wherein the system is configured to perform a second patient training routine, and the second patient training routine is performed at least once during a use of the second controlled device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more system configuration parameters comprise a calibration parameter. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to restore a patient function. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the patient function comprises one or more of: vision; hearing; speech; communication; limb motion; ambulation; reaching; grasping; standing; sitting; rolling over; bowel movement; bladder evacuation; and any combination thereof. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the multicellular signals comprise one or more of: neuron spikes, electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals, local field potential (LFP) signals, and electroencephalogram (EEG) signals. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes at least one multi-electrode array comprising the plurality of electrodes. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor transmits the multicellular signals through a wireless connection. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient training routine utilities the controlled device. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the threshold value is adjustable. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the system is configured to allow a clinician to adjust the threshold value. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the system is configured such that an adjustment to the threshold value is made from a remote location. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the system is configured to perform a permission routine prior to an adjustment to the threshold value. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the adjustment is controlled by one or more of: a password; a user identification; an electronic ID; and a mechanical key. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient training routine provides a time varying stimulus to the patient. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to perform an adaptive processing routine. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the adaptive processing routine includes changing over time the type or combination of types of signals processed. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the types of signals processed include one or more of: electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals, local field potential (LFP) signals, electroencephalogram (EEG), and neural spikes. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the controlled device comprises a piece of medical equipment. 23. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second controlled device. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient training routine comprises a software program. 25. A biological interface system comprising: a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals emanating from two or more living cells of a patient; a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor and process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal, the processing unit being configured to transmit the processed signal to a controlled device that is configured to receive the processed signal; and a surrogate of the controlled device for use during an integrated rated patient training routine, the surrogate configured to be more complex than the controlled device, wherein the system is configured to perform the integrated patient training routine using the surrogate of the controlled device to generate one or more system configuration parameters that are used by the processing unit to produce the processed signal, and wherein the system is configured such that the patient training routine is performed at least once during use of the system. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the patient training routine provides a time varying stimulus to the patient. 27. The system of claim 25, wherein the system is configured to allow an operator to perform the patient training routine. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the operator comprises the patient. 29. The system of claim 25, wherein the patient training routine comprises a software program. 30. The system of claim 25, further comprising a second controlled device, wherein the system is configured to perform a second patient training routine, and the second patient training routine is performed at least once during a use of the second controlled device. 31. The system of claim 25, wherein the one or more system configuration parameters comprise a calibration parameter. 32. The system of claim 25, wherein the system is configured to restore a patient function. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the patient function comprises one or more of: vision; hearing; speech; communication; limb motion; ambulation; reaching; grasping; standing; sitting; rolling over; bowel movement; bladder evacuation; and any combination thereof. 34. The system of claim 25, wherein the multicellular signals comprise one or more of: neuron spikes, electrocorticogram (ECoG) signals, local field potential (LFP) signals, and electroencephalogram (EEG) signals. 35. The system of claim 25, wherein the sensor includes at least one multi-electrode array comprising the plurality of electrodes. 36. The system of claim 25, wherein the sensor transmits the multicellular signals through a wireless connection. 37. The system of claim 25, wherein the controlled device comprises a piece of medical equipment. 