A system and method for automated handling of vials containing liquid medical specimens is disclosed. The robotic system processes the specimens for further downstream molecular analysis. The processing comprises automated vial cap removal, pipetting of the vial contents, transfer of the vial contents to a destination tray such as a multiwell plate, and recapping of the vial.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vial processing system comprising: an input platform adapted to receive a vial; a staging platform adapted to receive a vial; a vial handler positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform and staging platform; a cap handler positioned to engage and remove a cap of a vial in the staging platform; a vial gripper disposed on the staging platform to restrict movement of the vial during removal of the cap; a transfer pipette assembly comprising a pipette arm and tip head assembly, the tip head assembly being mounted to the pipette arm and adapted to receive a pipette tip, the pipette arm being positioned to translate the tip head assembly between an open vial and a destination area; and a mixing basket adapted to receive a vial and wherein the vial handler is further positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform, staging platform and mixing basket. 2. The vial processing system of claim 1, further comprising a vacuum generator in communication with the tip head assembly to withdraw a predetermined volume of fluid from a vial. 3. The vial processing system of claim 2, wherein the vacuum generator comprises a volumetric pump in hydraulic communication with the transfer pipette assembly. 4. The vial processing system of claim 3, further comprising a tube connecting the volumetric pump to the transfer pipette assembly, wherein a path formed by the tube, volumetric pump and pipette assembly is at least partially filled with a substantially incompressible fluid, and partially filled with a gas to create a gaseous interface between the substantially incompressible fluid and a sample volume drawn into the pipette tip from the vial. 5. The vial processing system of claim 1, further comprising an ultrasonic sensor positioned to detect fluid in an uncapped vial. 6. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein the mixing basket further comprises an eccentric drive mechanism that agitates the basket and vial to resuspend contents of the vials. 7. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein the mixing basket is adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 8. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein the input platform is adapted to receive a vial holding rack having a plurality of wells adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 9. The vial processing system of claim 8, further comprising two vial holding racks, wherein the wells of a first vial holding rack are adapted to receive a first set of vials and the wells of a second vial holding rack are adapted to receive a second set of vials, and wherein the wells of the first vial holding rack have a different set of dimensions from the wells of the second vial rack. 10. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein the vial gripper comprises a belt attached to the staging platform at one end and connected to a tightening lever arm at the other end to form at least a partial loop for receiving a vial, whereby the belt tightens around a vial disposed in the loop when force is applied to the lever arm. 11. The vial processing system of claim 10, wherein the belt is wrapped around a vial from the end connected to the staging platform to the end connected to the lever arm in the same direction as the direction of cap rotation used to remove a cap from a vial. 12. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein, the staging platform further comprises a plurality of wells sized to receive a vial and disposed along the perimeter of the staging platform, and the vial gripper further comprises a belt disposed along the perimeter wall of each well, a lever arm attached to each belt, and an actuator arranged to communicate with the end of a lever arm, wherein, each belt is attached at one end to the staging platform and at the other end to a lever arm, each lever arm is disposed at the perimeter of each well with a free end of the lever arm disposed toward the center of the staging platform, the actuator is disposed at the center of the of the staging platform in selective communication with the free end of each lever arm, and the staging platform, wells, belts and lever arms are rotatable with respect to the actuator whereby the actuator can selectively communicate with a lever arm through rotation of the staging platform. 13. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein the cap handler comprises at least two fingers extending parallel to and substantially equidistance radially and angularly from a central axis, and a torque sensor for sensing the force of the fingers on a vial cap being engaged, whereby the cap handler is capable of engaging vial caps of variable size. 14. The vial processing system of claim 13, further comprising a rotational drive engaging the cap handler for rotation of the cap handler about its central axis, whereby the cap handler can screw and unscrew a vial cap by actuating the rotational drive. 15. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein the tip head assembly is aligned substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of a tip head and comprises a collar, a beveled nozzle tip and a liquid level measurement sensor, wherein the collar is slideably attached to the nozzle tip and wherein the nozzle tip is compliant in the longitudinal direction. 16. A vial processing system comprising: an input platform adapted to receive a vial; a staging platform adapted to receive a vial; a vial handler positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform and staging platform; a cap handler positioned to engage and remove a cap of a vial in the staging platform; a vial gripper disposed on the staging platform to restrict movement of the vial during removal of the cap, the vial gripper comprising a belt attached to the staging platform at one end and connected to a tightening lever arm at the other end to form at least a partial loop for receiving a vial, whereby the belt tightens around a vial disposed in the loop when force is applied to the lever arm; and a transfer pipette assembly comprising a pipette arm and tip head assembly, the tip head assembly being mounted to the pipette arm and adapted to receive a pipette tip, the pipette arm being positioned to translate the tip head assembly between an open vial and a destination area. 17. The vial processing system of claim 16, further comprising a vacuum generator in communication with the tip head assembly to withdraw a predetermined volume of fluid from a vial. 18. The vial processing system of claim 17, wherein the vacuum generator comprises a volumetric pump in hydraulic communication with the transfer pipette assembly. 19. The vial processing system of claim 18, further comprising a tube connecting the volumetric pump to the transfer pipette assembly, wherein a path formed by the tube, volumetric pump and pipette assembly is at least partially filled with a substantially incompressible fluid, and partially filled with a gas to create a gaseous interface between the substantially incompressible fluid and a sample volume drawn into the pipette tip from the vial. 20. The vial processing system of claim 16, further comprising an ultrasonic sensor positioned to detect fluid in an uncapped vial. 21. The vial processing system of claim 16, further comprising a mixing basket adapted to receive a vial and wherein the vial handler is further positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform, staging platform and mixing basket. 22. The vial processing system of claim 21, wherein the mixing basket further comprises an eccentric drive mechanism that agitates the basket and vial to resuspend contents of the vials. 23. The vial processing system of claim 21, wherein the mixing basket is adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 24. The vial processing system of claim 1, wherein the input platform is adapted to receive a vial holding rack having a plurality of wells adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 25. The vial processing system of claim 24, further comprising two vial holding racks, wherein the wells of a first vial holding rack are adapted to receive a first set of vials and the wells of a second vial holding rack are adapted to receive a second set of vials, and wherein the wells of the first vial holding rack have a different set of dimensions from the wells of the second vial rack. 26. The vial processing system of claim 16, wherein the belt is wrapped around a vial from the end connected to the staging platform to the end connected to the lever arm in the same direction as the direction of cap rotation used to remove a cap from a vial. 27. The vial processing system of claim 16, wherein, the staging platform further comprises a plurality of wells sized to receive a vial and disposed along the perimeter of the staging platform, and the vial gripper further comprises a belt disposed along the perimeter wall of each well, a lever arm attached to each belt, and an actuator arranged to communicate with the end of a lever arm, wherein, each belt is attached at one end to the staging platform and at the other end to a lever arm, each lever arm is disposed at the perimeter of each well with a free end of the lever arm disposed toward the center of the staging platform, the actuator is disposed at the center of the of the staging platform in selective communication with the free end of each lever arm, and the staging platform, wells, belts and lever arms are rotatable with respect to the actuator whereby the actuator can selectively communicate with a lever arm through rotation of the staging platform. 28. The vial processing system of claim 16, wherein the cap handler comprises at least two fingers extending parallel to and substantially equidistance radially and angularly from a central axis, and a torque sensor for sensing the force of the fingers on a vial cap being engaged, whereby the cap handler is capable of engaging vial caps of variable size. 29. The vial processing system of claim 28, further comprising a rotational drive engaging the cap handler for rotation of the cap handler about its central axis, whereby the cap handler can screw and unscrew a vial cap by actuating the rotational drive. 30. The vial processing system of claim 16, wherein the tip head assembly is aligned substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of a tip head and comprises a collar, a beveled nozzle tip and a liquid level measurement sensor, wherein the collar is slideably attached to the nozzle tip and wherein the nozzle tip is compliant in the longitudinal direction. 31. A vial processing system comprising: an input platform adapted to receive a vial; a staging platform adapted to receive a vial, the staging platform comprising a plurality of wells sized to receive a vial and disposed along a perimeter of the staging platform; a vial handler positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform and staging platform; a cap handler positioned to engage and remove a cap of a vial in the staging platform; a vial gripper disposed on the staging platform to restrict movement of the vial during removal of the cap, the vial gripper comprising a belt disposed along the perimeter wall of each well, a lever arm attached to each belt, and an actuator arranged to communicate with the end of a lever arm; and a transfer pipette assembly comprising a pipette arm and tip head assembly, the tip head assembly being mounted to the pipette arm and adapted to receive a pipette tip, the pipette arm being positioned to translate the tip head assembly between an open vial and a destination area, wherein, each belt is attached at one end to the staging platform and at the other end to a lever arm, each lever arm is disposed at the perimeter of each well with a free end of the lever arm disposed toward the center of the staging platform, the actuator is disposed at the center of the of the staging platform in selective communication with the free end of each lever arm, and the staging platform, wells, belts and lever arms are rotatable with respect to the actuator whereby the actuator can selectively communicate with a lever arm through rotation of the staging platform. 32. The vial processing system of claim 1, further comprising a vacuum generator in communication with the tip head assembly to withdraw a predetermined volume of fluid from a vial. 33. The vial processing system of claim 32, wherein the vacuum generator comprises a volumetric pump in hydraulic communication with the transfer pipette assembly. 34. The vial processing system of claim 33, further comprising a tube connecting the volumetric pump to the transfer pipette assembly, wherein a path formed by the tube, volumetric pump and pipette assembly is at least partially filled with a substantially incompressible fluid, and partially filled with a gas to create a gaseous interface between the substantially incompressible fluid and a sample volume drawn into the pipette tip from the vial. 35. The vial processing system of claim 31, further comprising an ultrasonic sensor positioned to detect fluid in an uncapped vial. 36. The vial processing system of claim 31, further comprising a mixing basket adapted to receive a vial and wherein the vial handler is further positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform, staging platform and mixing basket. 37. The vial processing system of claim 36, wherein the mixing basket further comprises an eccentric drive mechanism that agitates the basket and vial to resuspend contents of the vials. 38. The vial processing system of claim 36, wherein the mixing basket is adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 39. The vial processing system of claim 31, wherein the input platform is adapted to receive a vial holding rack having a plurality of wells adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 40. The vial processing system of claim 39, further comprising two vial holding racks, wherein the wells of a first vial holding rack are adapted to receive a first set of vials and the wells of a second vial holding rack are adapted to receive a second set of vials, and wherein the wells of the first vial holding rack have a different set of dimensions from the wells of the second vial rack. 41. The vial processing system of claim 34, wherein the vial gripper comprises a belt attached to the staging platform at one end and connected to a tightening lever arm at the other end to form at least a partial loop for receiving a vial, whereby the belt tightens around a vial disposed in the loop when force is applied to the lever arm. 42. The vial processing system of claim 41, wherein the belt is wrapped around a vial from the end connected to the staging platform to the end connected to the lever arm in the same direction as the direction of cap rotation used to remove a cap from a vial. 43. The vial processing system of claim 34, wherein the cap handler comprises at least two fingers extending parallel to and substantially equidistance radially and angularly from a central axis, and a torque sensor for sensing the force of the fingers on a vial cap being engaged, whereby the cap handler is capable of engaging vial caps of variable size. 44. The vial processing system of claim 43, further comprising a rotational drive engaging the cap handler for rotation of the cap handler about its central axis, whereby the cap handler can screw and unscrew a vial cap by actuating the rotational drive. 45. The vial processing system of claim 34, wherein the tip head assembly is aligned substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of a tip head and comprises a collar, a beveled nozzle tip and a liquid level measurement sensor, wherein the collar is slideably attached to the nozzle tip and wherein the nozzle tip is compliant in the longitudinal direction. 46. A vial processing system comprising: an input platform adapted to receive a vial; a staging platform adapted to receive a vial; a vial handler positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform and staging platform; a cap handler positioned to engage and remove a cap of a vial in the staging platform; a vial gripper disposed on the staging platform to restrict movement of the vial during removal of the cap; and a transfer pipette assembly comprising a pipette arm and tip head assembly, the tip head assembly being mounted to the pipette arm and adapted to receive a pipette tip, the pipette arm being positioned to translate the tip head assembly between an open vial and a destination area, wherein the tip head assembly is aligned substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of a tip head and comprises a collar, a beveled nozzle tip and a liquid level measurement sensor, wherein the collar is slideably attached to the nozzle tip and wherein the nozzle tip is compliant in the longitudinal direction. 47. The vial processing system of claim 46, further comprising a vacuum generator in communication with the tip head assembly to withdraw a predetermined volume of fluid from a vial. 48. The vial processing system of claim 47, wherein the vacuum generator comprises a volumetric pump in hydraulic communication with the transfer pipette assembly. 49. The vial processing system of claim 48, further comprising a tube connecting the volumetric pump to the transfer pipette assembly, wherein a path formed by the tube, volumetric pump and pipette assembly is at least partially filled with a substantially incompressible fluid, and partially filled with a gas to create a gaseous interface between the substantially incompressible fluid and a sample volume drawn into the pipette tip from the vial. 50. The vial processing system of claim 46, further comprising an ultrasonic sensor positioned to detect fluid in an uncapped vial. 51. The vial processing system of claim 46, further comprising a mixing basket adapted to receive a vial and wherein the vial handler is further positioned to transfer a vial between the input platform, staging platform and mixing basket. 52. The vial processing system of claim 51, wherein the mixing basket further comprises an eccentric drive mechanism that agitates the basket and vial to resuspend contents of the vials. 53. The vial processing system of claim 51, wherein the mixing basket is adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 54. The vial processing system of claim 46, wherein the input platform is adapted to receive a vial holding rack having a plurality of wells adapted to receive a plurality of vials. 55. The vial processing system of claim 54, further comprising two vial holding racks, wherein the wells of a first vial holding rack are adapted to receive a first set of vials and the wells of a second vial holding rack are adapted to receive a second set of vials, and wherein the wells of the first vial holding rack have a different set of dimensions from the wells of the second vial rack. 56. The vial processing system of claim 46, wherein the vial gripper comprises a belt attached to the staging platform at one end and connected to a tightening lever arm at the other end to form at least a partial loop for receiving a vial, whereby the belt tightens around a vial disposed in the loop when force is applied to the lever arm. 57. The vial processing system of claim 56, wherein the belt is wrapped around a vial from the end connected to the staging platform to the end connected to the lever arm in the same direction as the direction of cap rotation used to remove a cap from a vial. 58. The vial processing system of claim 46, wherein, the staging platform further comprises a plurality of wells sized to receive a vial and disposed along the perimeter of the staging platform, and the vial gripper further comprises a belt disposed along the perimeter wall of each well, a lever arm attached to each belt, and an actuator arranged to communicate with the end of a lever arm, wherein, each belt is attached at one end to the staging platform and at the other end to a lever arm, each lever arm is disposed at the perimeter of each well with a free end of the lever arm disposed toward the center of the staging platform, the actuator is disposed at the center of the of the staging platform in selective communication with the free end of each lever arm, and the staging platform, wells, belts and lever arms are rotatable with respect to the actuator whereby the actuator can selectively communicate with a lever arm through rotation of the staging platform. 59. The vial processing system of claim 46, wherein the cap handler comprises at least two fingers extending parallel to and substantially equidistance radially and angularly from a central axis, and a torque sensor for sensing the force of the fingers on a vial cap being engaged, whereby the cap handler is capable of engaging vial caps of variable size. 60. The vial processing system of claim 59, further comprising a rotational drive engaging the cap handler for rotation of the cap handler about its central axis, whereby the cap handler can screw and unscrew a vial cap by actuating the rotational drive. 