A system, method and corresponding apparatus are provided for storing, retrieving and delivering unit dose blisters in their natural, raw state (i.e., without over-wrapping or repackaging). In particular, a plurality of unit dose blister mounts are configured to position a corresponding plurality of different types of unit dose blisters in a predetermined, repeatable orientation, so that they can be retrieved and delivered using, for example, an automated retrieval system. The storage apparatus (or unit dose blister mount) may include a cavity that is configured to receive a unit dose medication or medication cavity of the unit dose blister in such a way that the unit dose blister lies substantially flat in the horizontal plane, enabling any identification information displayed on the underside of the unit dose blister (i.e., the side opposite the unit dose medication, or medication cavity) to be viewed.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A storage apparatus configured to accept a plurality of different types of unit dose packages, said apparatus comprising: a carrier configured to hold a plurality of different types of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, such that when held, the respective unit dose packages lie and are maintained in a predetermined plane relative to said carrier; and a handle (a) extending from the storage apparatus and (b) configured for being engaged by a picking system (i) to move the storage apparatus and (ii) for delivering at least one of the plurality of different types of unit dose packages. 2. The storage apparatus of claim 1, wherein said plurality of unit dose packages comprise a plurality of unit dose blisters, and wherein respective unit dose blisters comprise a support panel and a unit dose medication carried by said support panel, such that when said unit dose blister is held by said carrier, said support panel is maintained in said predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 3. The storage apparatus of claim 2, wherein said carrier defines a cavity therein, said cavity configured to receive said unit dose medication. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said carrier comprises a surface, through which said cavity opens, and wherein said carrier is configured to receive the plurality of different types of unit dose blisters such that said support panel of each unit dose blister contacts and is supported by said surface in a plane substantially parallel to said surface of said carrier. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said carrier defines a plurality of cavities, each configured to receive said unit dose medication of a respective unit dose blister, such that said support panel of each unit dose blister is maintained in a respective predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the surface of said carrier further comprises a plurality of surface portions with each cavity opening through a respective surface portion, wherein each surface portion is substantially parallel to and offset from another surface portion. 7. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said support panel has opposed first and second sides with said unit dose medication proximate the first side and the second side including an identification code that includes information identifying said unit dose medication, and wherein said carrier is configured to contact the first side of said support panel such that the identification code is exposed. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the identification code is selected from the group consisting of a barcode, a radio frequency identification tag and text. 9. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said carrier further comprises a unique identifier capable of identifying at least one of said carrier or said unit dose medication carried by said support panel of said unit dose blister held by said carrier. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a retention mechanism configured to hold said unit dose package in said predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a clipping mechanism configured to hold said carrier in a storage system while said storage system is in motion. 12. A system for retrieving and delivering one or more unit dose packages, said system comprising: a storage system configured for storing a plurality of unit dose package mounts; a picking system comprising a mount removal mechanism, wherein (a) the mount removal mechanism is configured to at least partially remove the respective unit dose package mounts from the storage system and (b) the picking system is configured to retrieve unit dose packages from the respective unit dose package mounts and to deliver the unit dose packages to a predefined location; a unit dose package mount comprising a handle configured for being engaged by the picking system to move the unit dose package mount, wherein the unit dose package mount is configured for storing a plurality of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, such that respective unit dose packages are repeatably maintained in a predetermined plane while the unit dose package is disposed at a storage location within the storage system or the predefined location to which said picking system delivers said unit dose package; and a controller capable of directing said picking system to retrieve and deliver said unit dose package. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said plurality of unit dose packages comprise a plurality of unit dose blisters, and wherein the respective unit dose blisters comprise a support panel and a unit dose medication carried by said support panel, such that said support panel is repeatedly maintained in said predetermined plane. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said unit dose package mount comprises a carrier defining a cavity therein, said cavity of said carrier configured to receive said unit dose medication, while said support panel of said unit dose blister lies and is maintained in a predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said carrier comprises a surface, through which said cavity opens, and wherein said carrier is configured to receive the plurality of different types of unit dose blisters such that said support panel of each unit dose blister contacts and is supported by said surface in a plane substantially parallel to said surface of said carrier. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said carrier defines a plurality of cavities, each configured to receive said unit dose medication of a respective unit dose blister, such that said support panel of each unit dose blister is maintained in a respective predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein said support panel of each unit dose blister has opposed first and second sides with said unit dose medication proximate the first side and the second side including an identification code, and wherein the system further comprises a reader configured to read said identification code of said unit dose blister, while said unit dose blister is positioned in said predetermined plane, to determine an identity of said unit dose medication, and to transmit said identity to said controller. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said identification code comprises at least one of a barcode, a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag, or text, and wherein said reader comprises at least one of a barcode reader, an RFID tag reader, or a camera. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein said controller is further capable of receiving said identity and of verifying that said unit dose medication is correct based at least in part on said identity. 20. The system of Claim 12, wherein said mount removal mechanism further comprises: a gripper configured to grip said handle of said unit dose package mount; an extension mechanism configured to extend said gripper from a first position to a second position, wherein said second position is proximate to said unit dose package mount such that said gripper is capable of engaging the handle of the unit dose package mount; and a retraction mechanism configured to retract said gripper from said second position to said first position once said handle has been gripped. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said gripper is configured to grip said handle when said gripper and said handle are misaligned. 22. The system of claim 12, wherein said picking system comprises a package removal mechanism configured to remove one or more unit dose packages from respective unit dose package mounts following identification of said unit dose package. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said package removal mechanism comprises one or more vacuum generators configured to generate a sufficient suction to remove said unit dose package from said unit dose package mount. 24. The system of claim 12, wherein said controller stores a location associated with respective unit dose packages within said storage system. 25. The system of claim 12, wherein said controller stores one or more prescription orders, each comprising an identification number and corresponding one or more unit dose medications. 26. The system of claim 12 further comprising: a container into which said unit dose package is delivered following identification. 27. A storage apparatus configured to accept a plurality of different types of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, said apparatus comprising: a carrier defining at least one cavity, wherein the carrier is configured to hold a plurality of different types of unit dose packages of different shapes and sizes, such that when held, the respective unit dose packages lie and are maintained in a predetermined plane relative to said carrier; and a clipping mechanism configured to hold said carrier in a storage system while said storage system is in motion, wherein the storage apparatus is configured for being engaged by a picking system (i) to move the storage apparatus and (ii) for delivering at least one unit dose package. 28. The storage apparatus of claim 27, wherein said plurality of unit dose packages comprise a plurality of unit dose blisters, and wherein respective unit dose blisters comprise a support panel and a unit dose medication carried by said support panel, such that when said unit dose blister is held by said carrier, said support panel is maintained in said predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein said carrier further comprises a unique identifier capable of identifying at least one of said carrier or said unit dose medication carried by said support panel of said unit dose blister held by said carrier. 30. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein said support panel has opposed first and second sides with said unit dose medication proximate the first side and the second side including an identification code that includes information identifying said unit dose medication, and wherein said carrier is configured to contact the first side of said support panel such that the identification code is exposed. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the identification code is selected from the group consisting of a barcode, a radio frequency identification tag and text. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein said carrier comprises a surface, through which said at least one cavity opens, and wherein said carrier is configured to receive the plurality of different types of unit dose blisters such that said support panel of each unit dose blister contacts and is supported by said surface in a plane substantially parallel to said surface of said carrier. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein said at least one cavity is configured to receive said unit dose medication of a respective unit dose blister, such that said support panel of each unit dose blister is maintained in a respective predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein the surface of said carrier further comprises a plurality of surface portions with said at least one cavity opening through a respective surface portion, wherein each surface portion is substantially parallel to and offset from another surface portion. 35. The apparatus of claim 27 further comprising: a retention mechanism configured to hold said unit dose package in said predetermined plane relative to said carrier. 