The present invention was developed by a neurosurgeon and seeks to mimic the results of primate neurological research which is indicative of a human's actual neurological control structures and logic. Specifically, the motor proprioceptive and tactile neurophysiology functioning of the surgeon's hands and internal hand control system from the muscular level through the intrafusal fiber system of the neural network is considered in creating the robot and method of operation of the present invention. Therefore, the surgery is not slowed down as in the art, because the surgeon is in conscious and subconscious natural agreement and harmonization with the robotically actuated surgical instruments based on neurological mimicking of the surgeon's behavior with the functioning of the robot. Therefore, the robot can enhance the surgeon's humanly limited senses while not introducing disruptive variables to the surgeon's naturally occurring operation of his neurophysiology. This is therefore also a new field, neurophysiological symbiotic robotics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller robot for performing surgical procedures, the controller comprising: a robotics portion, the robotics portion comprising an arm, an instrument magazine attached to the arm, and a plurality of different surgical instruments in the instrument magazine, wherein the instrument magazine and the plurality of surgical instruments move together with the arm; a workstation portion, the workstation portion comprising a display and an input device; a controller portion, the controller portion comprising hardware and software for transforming input provided by a surgeon operator via an interface portion into motion of a selected one of the surgical instruments; and wherein the robotics portion further comprises force detection sensors for determining force reflectance from tissue in contact with the surgical instrument, the surgical instruments are adapted to be alternately deployed from the instrument magazine, and the controller portion further comprises instructions that cause deployment of a selected surgical instrument from the instrument magazine. 2. A controller robot according to claim 1, wherein said interface portion further comprises a microphone for receiving spoken input from a surgeon operator, and wherein said controller portion selects a surgical instrument unit for engagement to the robotics arm dependant on input received via the microphone. 3. A controller robot according to claim 1, wherein the robotics portion further comprises a left robotics arm and a right robotics arm, the robotics arms adapted to alternately engage varying surgical instruments. 4. A controller robot according to claim 3, where said robotics portion further comprises a left instrument magazine attached to the left arm and having a plurality of surgical instruments for the left arm and a right instrument magazine attached to the right arm and having a plurality of surgical instruments for the right arm, the surgical instruments of each instrument magazine being adapted to alternately engage the robotics arms. 5. A controller robot according to claim 4, wherein the controller portion further comprises capability to direct the left and right robotics arms to select specific surgical instruments for engagement to the robotics arms. 6. A controller robot according to claim 5, wherein the varying surgical instrument units are selected dependant on a procedure to be performed. 7. A controller robot according to claim 6, wherein the surgical instruments making up the left instrument magazine are not identical to the varying surgical instruments making up the right instrument magazine. 8. A controller robot for performing surgical procedures, the controller comprising: a robotics portion, the robotics portion comprising an arm, an instrument magazine attached to the arm, and a plurality of different surgical instruments in the instrument magazine, wherein the instrument magazine and the plurality of surgical instruments move together with the arm; a workstation portion, the workstation portion comprising a display and an input device; a controller portion, the controller portion comprising hardware and software for transforming input provided by a surgeon operator via the interface portion into motion of a selected one of the surgical instruments; wherein the robotics portion further comprises force detection sensors for determining force reflectance from tissue in contact with the selected surgical instrument, the surgical instruments are adapted to be alternately deployed from the instrument magazine, and the controller portion further comprises instructions that cause deployment of a selected surgical instrument from the instrument unit; and an auxiliary interface connected to the controller portion. 9. A controller robot according to claim 8, wherein the controller portion is connected to a communications network. 10. A controller robot according to claim 9, further comprising a database connected to said network, said database storing parameters associated with surgeons. 11. A controller robot according to claim 9, further comprising a database connected to said network, said database storing parameters associated with tissues. 12. A controller robot according to claim 9, further comprising a database connected to said network, said database storing historical information associated with performance of a medical procedure using the controller robot. 13. A controller robot according to claim 9, further comprising continuous frameless navigation equipment connected to said network. 14. A controller robot according to claim 9, further comprising computer aided tomography equipment connected to said network. 15. A controller robot according to claim 9, further comprising magnetic resonance imaging equipment connected to said network. 16. A controller robot for performing surgical procedures, the controller comprising: a robotics portion, the robotics portion comprising an arm, an instrument magazine attached to the arm, and a plurality of surgical instruments in the instrument magazine, wherein the instrument magazine and the plurality of surgical instruments move together with the arm; a workstation portion, the workstation portion comprising a display and an input device; a controller portion, the controller portion comprising hardware and software for transforming input provided by a surgeon operator via an interface portion into motion of a selected one of the surgical instruments; and wherein the robotics portion further comprises force detection sensors for determining force reflectance from tissue in contact with the selected surgical instrument, the surgical instruments are adapted to be alternately deployed from the instrument magazine, the controller portion further comprises instructions that cause deployment of a selected surgical instrument from the instrument magazines, and the instrument magazine further comprises an imager configured to view an area associated with a surgical instrument. 17. A controller robot for performing surgical procedures, comprising: a robotics portion comprising an arm, an instrument magazine attached to the arm, and a plurality of different surgical instruments in the instrument magazine, wherein the instrument magazine and the plurality of surgical instruments move together with the arm; a workstation portion, the workstation portion comprising a display and an input device; a controller portion, the controller portion comprising hardware and software for transforming input provided by a surgeon operator via an interface portion into motion of a selected one of the surgical instruments; and wherein the robotics portion further comprises force detection sensors for determining force reflectance from tissue in contact with the surgical instrument, and the controller portion is able to receive definition of a boundary past which a surgical instrument should not travel, the controller further being able to limit motion of the robotics arm to prevent interference between the surgical instrument and the boundary, and the controller portion having instructions that cause deployment of a selected surgical instrument from the instrument magazine. 18. The controller robot of claim 17, wherein the controller portion predicts a future position of a surgical instrument dependant on the present motion of the robotics arm, and further signals a surgeon operator when such prediction indicates a likely interference between the surgical instrument and the boundary. 19. A robotic system for surgical procedures, comprising: a workstation having a dock configured to mate with an operating table such that the workstation is indexed to a known location relative to the table; a robotics portion comprising a handle configured to be grasped by an operator, an arm, an instrument magazine, and a plurality of different surgical instruments in the instrument magazine, wherein the instrument magazine is carried by the arm such that the instrument magazine and the plurality of surgical instruments move with the arm; and a controller operatively coupled to the handle and to the arm, wherein the controller is configured to transform input provided by the surgeon operator via the handle into motion of the surgical instrument. 20. The robotic system of claim 19, wherein the robotic portion comprises a first handle and a second handle, a first arm associated with the first handle and a second arm associated with the second handle, and a first instrument magazine having a first plurality of instruments configured to be carried by the first arm and a second instrument magazine having a second plurality of instruments configured to be carried by the second arm. 21. The robotic system of claim 19 wherein the workstation further comprises rollers configured to transport the workstation. 22. The robotic system of claim 19 wherein the robotics portion further comprises an interchange block carried by the arm, and wherein the interchange block and the surgical instruments are configured so that the surgical instruments are interchangeably attachable to the interchange block. 23. The robotic system of claim 19 wherein the instrument unit further comprises a magazine and the plurality of surgical instruments are carried by the magazine. 24. The robotic system of claim 23 wherein the magazine comprises a tray proximate to the arm. 25. The robotic system of claim 23 wherein the magazine comprises a rotary instrument holder attached to the arm and configured to rotate about a longitudinal axis of the magazine. 