Methods and apparatus are provided fox defending against telephone-based robotic attacks. An interactive voice response method is provided for presenting a menu having one or more menu options to a caller associated with a call. The method comprises the steps of obtaining a script to present to the caller, the script including the one or more menu options; combining at least one of the one or more menu options with a background audio signal, wherein the background audio signal is selected based on a context of the call; and presenting the combination of the at least one of the one or more menu options and the background audio signal to the caller. The context of the call includes comprises one or more of an identity of a called party associated with the call and a time period of the call. The background audio signal can optionally be obtained from a library of background signals.
Claims We claim: 1. A method comprising: receiving, by an interactive voice response (IVR) system, a call from a caller; and transmitting from the interactive voice response (IVR) system to the caller a background audio signal and an interactive voice response (IVR) menu, wherein (i) the background audio signal is set at a first volume level when the transmitting starts, (ii) the background audio signal is set, during the transmitting, to a second volume level, (iii) the background audio signal is set to the second volume level during a predetermined time period that ends before the transmitting, and (iv) the second volume level is higher than the first volume level so that the background audio signal obscures the menu more when the background audio signal is set at the second volume level than the background audio signal obscures the menu when the background audio signal is set at the first volume level. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the background audio signal is selected based on the time at which the call is received. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the interactive voice response (IVR) system, during the predetermined time period, substitutes the background audio signal with another background audio signal. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the background audio signal is a musical selection having at least one of variable instrument, variable pitch, variable tempo, and variable starting point. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the background audio signal is selected at random from a non-empty set of available background audio signals. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the background audio signal is transmitted only if an attack is detected. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein: the call is directed to a called party, and the background signal is selected based the called party. 8. A method comprising: receiving, by an interactive voice response (IVR) system, a call from a caller, wherein the call is directed to a called party; and transmitting from the interactive voice response (IVR) system to the caller a background audio signal and an interactive voice response (IVR) menu, wherein: (i) the background audio signal is selected based on the called party, (ii) the background audio signal is selected when the call is received, and (iii) the background audio signal is selected separately from the interactive voice response (IVR) menu. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the background audio signal is also selected based on the time at which the call is received. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the background audio signal is obtained from a non-empty set of available background signals. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the background audio signal is a musical selection having variable starting point. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein: (iv) the background audio signal is set at a first volume level when the transmitting starts, (v) the background audio signal is set, during the transmitting, to a second volume level, (vi) the background audio signal is set to the second volume level during a predetermined time period that ends before the transmitting, and (vii) the second volume level is higher than the first volume level so that the background audio signal obscures the menu more when the background audio signal is set at the second volume level than the background audio signal obscures the menu when the background audio signal is set at the first volume level. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the background audio signal is transmitted only when an attack is detected. 14. A method comprising: receiving, by an interactive voice response (IVR) system, a call from a caller; transmitting from the interactive voice response (IVR) system to the caller a first background audio signal and an interactive voice response (IVR) menu; and substituting, by the interactive voice response (IVR) system, the first background audio signal with a second background audio signal and transmitting the second background audio signal in place of the first background audio signal; wherein the substituting is performed before the transmitting of the interactive voice response (IVR) menu is finished; and wherein the second background audio signal is different from the first background audio signal. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the second background audio signal is related to the first background audio signal. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the first background audio signal is selected based on the time at which the call is received. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the first background audio signal is selected at random from a non-empty set of available background signals. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein: the call is directed to a called party, and the first background signal is selected based on the called party. 