A system for carrying out or monitoring irradiation of a moving object using a particle beam is provided. A particle beam may be directed onto the moving object from a beam outlet. X-ray images from different directions are recorded by an imaging unit. The imaging unit may include an x-ray detector and an x-ray emitter opposite the x-ray detector. The imaging unit may be positioned around the object independently of the position of the beam outlet, for example, during application of the particle beam. The X-ray images may be used to reconstruct a series of digital tomosynthesis images of the moving object online. The reconstructed digital tomosynthesis images are evaluated so that movement of the moving object is captured and the irradiation profile is controlled.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for carrying out irradiation of a moving object, the device comprising: a beam outlet configured to direct a treatment beam onto the moving object, an imaging unit comprising an x-ray detector and an x-ray emitter opposite the x-ray detector, the imaging unit being operable to be positioned around the moving object independently of a position of the beam outlet, the imaging unit being configured to record x-ray images from different directions by moving the imaging unit relative to the position of the beam outlet, the moving and the recording occurring during application of the treatment beam, a computer unit configured to reconstruct a series of digital tomosynthesis images of the moving object from the recorded x-ray images, the reconstruction being performed online, and a control unit configured to evaluate at least some of the digital tomosynthesis images and to control an irradiation profile based on the evaluation. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the imaging unit is configured to carry out a movement, during which the x-ray emitter and an axis of an x-ray beam emitted by the x-ray emitter move in a circular or spiral precession movement. 3. The device as claimed in claim 2, further comprising at least one robot arm operable to position the x-ray detector or the x-ray emitter in a chamber. 4. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein a number of x-ray images used to reconstruct one of the digital tomosynthesis images is based on an actual movement or an anticipated movement of the moving object. 5. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the x-ray detector and x-ray emitter are configured to be moved around the moving object at a speed that is based on an actual movement or an anticipated movement of the moving object. 6. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the digital tomosynthesis images is reconstructed along a selected reconstruction plane through the moving object. 7. The device as claimed in claim 5, wherein selection of the reconstruction plane is based on a spatial direction of an actual movement or an anticipated movement of the moving object. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the imaging unit further comprises a support arm, the x-ray detector and the x-ray emitter being disposed on the support arm. 9. The device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising at least one robot arm operable to position the x-ray detector and the x-ray emitter. 10. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the treatment beam is a particle beam, and the beam outlet remains in a fixed position spatially during application of the particle beam. 11. A method for monitoring an irradiation treatment of a moving object using a treatment beam, the method comprising: recording x-ray images of the moving object from different directions by moving an imaging unit relative to an axis of the treatment beam, the recording and the moving occurring during application of the treatment beam from a fixed spatial direction; reconstructing, by a computer unit, a series of digital tomosynthesis images from the recorded x-ray images, the series of digital tomosynthesis images being reconstructed online; capturing a movement of the moving object by evaluating the series of digital tomosynthesis images; and controlling an irradiation profile of the treatment beam as a function of the captured movement. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprising moving an x-ray detector and an x-ray emitter in a circular or spiral precession movement about the moving object while the x-ray images are being recorded from different directions. 13. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein reconstructing includes reconstructing at least one of the digital tomosynthesis images as a function of an actual movement or an anticipated movement of the moving object. 14. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprising moving an x-ray detector and an x-ray emitter around the moving object during recording of the x-ray images from different directions, a speed at which the x-ray detector and the x-ray emitter are moved being tailored to an actual movement or an anticipated movement of the object. 15. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprising selecting a reconstruction plane along which at least one of the digital tomosynthesis images is reconstructed. 16. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein selecting the reconstruction plane includes selecting the reconstruction plane as a function of a spatial direction of an actual movement or an anticipated movement of the moving object. 17. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the treatment beam is a particle beam. 18. A method for monitoring an irradiation treatment of a moving object using a treatment beam, the method comprising: recording x-ray images of the moving object from different directions during application of a treatment beam from a fixed spatial direction; moving an x-ray detector and an x-ray emitter in a circular or spiral precession movement about the moving object while the x-ray images are being recorded from the different directions; reconstructing, by a computer unit, a series of digital tomosynthesis images from the recorded x-ray images, the series of digital tomosynthesis images being reconstructed online; capturing a movement of the moving object by evaluating the series of digital tomosynthesis images; and controlling an irradiation profile of the treatment beam as a function of the captured movement. 