Embodiments of the invention provide methods for inserting a non-metallic multi-strand braid through a coil tube. Techniques for bonding one end of a lead line to one end of a multi-strand non-metallic braid are provided. There are also embodiments of steerable instruments described having a plurality of hinged segments; a multi-strand non-metallic braid connected distally to one segment of the plurality of segments and proximally to an actuator; and a steering controller adapted to control the actuator to move the hinged segment using the multi-strand non-metallic braid.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for inserting a non-metallic multi-strand braid through a coil tube, the method comprising: bonding one end of a lead line to one end of a multi-strand non-metallic braid to create a bonded area, wherein the bonded area has a diameter that is the same as or less than the diameter of both the non-metallic multi-strand braid and the lead line; and advancing the multi-strand non-metallic braid through a coil tube using the lead line. 2. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: altering the one end of the lead line before the bonding step to improve adhesion to the non-metallic multi-strand braid. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the bonding step comprises gluing the one end of the lead line to the one end of a multi-strand non-metallic braid. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the bonding step comprises thermally bonding the one end of the lead line to the one end of a multi-strand non-metallic braid. 5. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: cutting a strand of the multi-strand braid before the bonding step. 6. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: placing the one end of the lead line and the one end of the non-metallic multi-strand braid into a fixture before the bonding step. 7. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: terminating an end of the multi-strand non-metallic braid. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein terminating includes forming a knot in the multi-strand non-metallic braid. 9. The method according to claim 7 comprising: passing the multi-strand non-metallic braid through a threaded element before the terminating step. 10. The method of claim 8 further comprising applying an adhesive to the knot formed in the multi-strand non-metallic braid. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein terminating an end of the multi-strand braid comprises gluing a ball within the multi-strand non-metallic braid. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein terminating an end of the multi-strand non-metallic braid comprises securing a crimp to the multi-strand non-metallic braid. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein terminating an end of the multi-strand non-metallic braid comprises forming a loop in one end of the multi-strand non-metallic braid. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising reducing the diameter of the one end of the lead line or the one end of the non-metallic multi-strand braid before bonding the lead line and the non-metallic multi-strand braid. 15. The method according to claim 1 wherein the lead line is formed from the same material as the non-metallic multi-stranded braid. 