A technique that determines the tension in a tendon using a conduit reaction force applied to an end of a conduit through which the tendon is threaded. Any suitable tendon tension sensor can be employed that uses the conduit reaction force for this purpose. In one non-limiting embodiment, the tendon tension sensor includes a cylindrical strain gauge element and a force member mounted to an end of the conduit. The force member includes a cylindrical portion having a bore and a plate portion, where the cylindrical portion is inserted into a bore in the strain gauge element. The tendon is threaded through the strain gauge element and the force member. A strain gauge is mounted to the strain gauge element and measures the reaction force when tension on the tendon causes the strain gauge element to be pushed against the force member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor for measuring tension on a tendon, said tendon extending through a conduit and out an end therefrom, said sensor comprising: a force element including a cylindrical portion and a plate portion mounted to the end of the conduit, said cylindrical portion including an internal bore, said tendon extending through the internal bore of the cylindrical portion; and a strain gauge element including a cylindrical body having an internal bore, said cylindrical portion of the force element being inserted into the internal bore of the cylindrical body of the strain gauge element, said tendon also extending through the internal bore of the cylindrical element, said strain gauge element including at least one strain gauge mounted thereto, said at least one strain gauge measuring a conduit reaction force at the end of the conduit caused by the strain gauge element pushing against the plate portion in response to tension on the tendon. 2. The sensor according to claim 1 wherein the strain gauge element includes cut-out portions in the cylindrical body that define opposing pillars where the at least one strain gauge is mounted to one of the pillars. 3. The sensor according to claim 2 wherein the at least one strain gauge is two strain gauges mounted to opposite sides of one of the pillars where one of the strain gauges measures a compression and the other strain gauge measures extension in response to a bending motion on the strain gauge element from the conduit reaction force. 4. The sensor according to claim 1 wherein the strain gauge element includes flattened portions in the cylindrical body, said at least one strain gauge being mounted to one of the flattened portions in the cylindrical body. 5. The sensor according to claim 4 wherein the at least one strain gauge is two strain gauges mounted to a flattened portion and oppositely oriented to measure strain in opposite directions in the strain gauge element. 6. The sensor according to claim 1 wherein the tendon is a tendon in a robotic hand that moves a robotic finger joint. 7. A sensor for measuring tension on a tendon in a robotic hand, said tendon extending through a conduit in the robotic hand and out an end therefrom into a robotic finger in the hand, said sensor comprising: a force element mounted to the end of the conduit, said tendon extending through the force element; and a strain gauge element mounted to the force element, said tendon extending through the strain gauge element, said strain gauge element including at least one strain gauge mounted thereto, said at least one strain gauge measuring a conduit reaction force at the end of the conduit caused by the strain gauge element pushing against the force element in response to tension on the tendon. 8. The sensor according to claim 7 wherein the force element includes a cylindrical portion and a plate portion, said cylindrical portion including an internal bore through which the tendon extends. 9. The sensor according to claim 7 wherein the strain gauge element includes a cylindrical body having an internal bore through, which the tendon extends. 10. The sensor according to claim 9 wherein the strain gauge element includes cut-out portions in the cylindrical body that define opposing pillars where the at least one strain gauge is mounted to one of the pillars. 11. The sensor according to claim 10 wherein the at least one strain gauge is two strain gauges mounted to opposite sides of one of the pillars where one of the strain gauges measures a compression and the other strain gauge measures extension in response to a bending motion on the strain gauge element from the conduit reaction force. 12. The sensor according to claim 9 wherein the strain gauge element includes flattened portions in the cylindrical body, said at least one strain gauge being mounted to one of the flattened portions in the cylindrical body. 13. The sensor according to claim 12 wherein the at least one strain gauge is two strain gauges mounted to a flattened portion and oppositely oriented to measure strain in opposite directions in the strain gauge element. 14. A sensor for measuring tension on a tendon, said tendon extending through a conduit and out an end therefrom, said sensor comprising a force element mounted to the end of the conduit, said force element being responsive to a conduit reaction force at the end of the conduit in response to tension on the tendon, said sensor measuring the conduit reaction force. 15. The sensor according to claim 14 further comprising a strain gauge element mounted to the force element, said strain gauge element including at least one strain gauge mounted thereto, said at least one strain gauge measuring the conduit reaction force at the end of the conduit caused the by the strain gauge element pushing against the force element in response to the tension on the tendon. 16. The sensor according to claim 15 wherein the force element includes a cylindrical portion and a plate portion, said cylindrical portion including an internal bore, said tendon extending through the internal bore of the cylindrical portion. 17. The sensor according to claim 16 wherein the strain gauge element includes a cylindrical body having an internal bore, said cylindrical portion of the force element being inserted into the cylindrical bore of the cylindrical body of the strain gauge element, said tendon also extending through the internal bore of the cylindrical body. 18. The sensor according to claim 17 wherein the strain gauge element includes cut-out portions in the cylindrical body that define opposing pillars where the at least one strain gauge is mounted to one of the pillars. 19. The sensor according to claim 18 wherein the at least one strain gauge is two strain gauges mounted to opposite sides of one of the pillars where one of the strain gauges measures a compression and the other strain gauge measures extension in response to a bending motion on the strain gauge element from the conduit reaction force. 20. The sensor according to claim 17 wherein the strain gauge element includes flattened portions in the cylindrical body, said at least one strain gage being mounted to one of the flattened portion in the cylindrical body. 