A method of imaging, including receiving radioactive radiation from a body; reconstructing a 3D SPECT image of a distribution of radiation in at least one voxel of said body; and reconstructing a dynamic change in radiation in said voxel, as an updated image, at a rate of faster than one change per 5 minutes, wherein said reconstructed image is a clinically useful image including a resolution of 10 mm or better for a voxel volume of at least 5 cm in diameter and a contrast to background ratio of radiation of at least 2:1.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of imaging, comprising: (a) receiving radioactive radiation from a body; (b) reconstructing a 3D SPECT image of a distribution of radiation in a plurality of voxels that correspond to portions of said body; (c) reconstructing a dynamic change in radiation in said voxels, as an updated image, at a rate of faster than one change per 5 minutes; and (d) administrating a radiopharmaceutical to a patient, wherein said reconstructing at least one of (b) or (c) uses radioactive radiation data collected at a time period overlapping in time with said administration, wherein said reconstructed image is a clinically useful image including a resolution of 10 mm or better for a voxel volume of at least 5 cm in diameter and a contrast target to background ratio of radiation of at least 2:1. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructed dynamic change indicates one or more of the following: a rate of accumulation of a radiopharmaceutical within a voxel, the rate of diffusion across a membrane, the rate of diffusion from a blood capillary to a muscle, the rate of diffusion from a muscle to the blood, and the rate of change of a radiopharmaceutical concentration in a voxel. 3. A method according to claim 1, comprising imaging responsive to said reconstructed dynamic change. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing at least one of (b) or (c) comprises reconstructing an image of a patient using multiple kinetic parameters, and comprising: (d) measuring the distance between respective kinetic parameters; (e) relating the patient or individual voxels or groups of voxels to existing groups or populations, which are available in a database; and (f) arriving at a decision, regarding the patient or individual voxels or groups of voxels. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the existing populations in the database are populations of generally healthy individuals. 6. A method according to claim 4, wherein the existing populations are previous measurements of the same patient. 7. A method according to claim 1, comprising: (e) modifying said administering in response to said reconstructing. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein administrating comprises administrating a first dose and wherein modifying comprises increasing said dose, by administering an amount at least double thereof. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein said modifying comprises maintaining a steady state between clearance and breakdown of a radiopharmaceutical, on the one hand, and administration of the radiopharmaceutical, on the other. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein said radiopharmaceutical is teboroxime. 11. A method according to claim 1, wherein said administrating and said reconstructing are matched so that said reconstructing obtains a time-dependent functional relation between the radiopharmaceutical and a physiology of the patient. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein said relation comprises one or more of a body clearance rate, a rate of accumulation of a radiopharmaceutical within a voxel, a rate of diffusion across a membrane, a rate of diffusion, from a blood capillary to a muscle, a rate of diffusion from a muscle to the blood and a rate of change of a radiopharmaceutical concentration in a voxel. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein said administering is a time-dependent, automatic, radiopharmaceutical administration selected from a group consisting of: pulsatile, constant-rate slow-drip, sinusoidal, linearly increasing, linearly decreasing, and another temporal function. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing a dynamic change comprises simultaneously reconstructing a dynamic change in a concentration of at least two radiopharmaceuticals. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing a dynamic change comprises reconstructing a dynamic change at a rate faster than one change in 5 seconds. 16. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing a dynamic change comprises reconstructing a dynamic change at a rate faster than one change in 1 minute. 17. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing a dynamic change comprises reconstructing a dynamic change at a rate faster than one change in 2 seconds. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing a dynamic change comprises reconstructing a dynamic change in an entire organ. 19. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of voxels include at least one voxel of a millimetric size. 20. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of voxels include at least one voxel of a sub-millimetric size. 21. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing a dynamic change is triggered. 22. A method according to claim 21, wherein said triggering is by one or more of a camera acquisition cycle, a physiological event, an external event, external stimulation, level of radiopharmaceutical in the blood. 23. A method according to claim 1, wherein said reconstructing of (c) uses newly collected data collected over a period of time of 5 minutes or less to generate said updated image. 24. Apparatus for imaging, comprising: (a) a camera adapted for receiving radioactive radiation from a body; (b) a radiopharmaceutical administration timing determination circuit; and (c) a controller configured to: (i) reconstruct a 3D SPECT image of a distribution of radiation in a plurality of voxels that correspond to portions of said body; (ii) reconstruct a dynamic change in radiation in said voxels, as an updated image, at a rate of faster than one change per 5 minutes ; and (iii) time the collection of radioactive radiation data used for said reconstruction of at least one of (i) or (ii) so as to overlap in time with radiopharmaceutical administration, using said administration timing circuit, wherein said reconstructed image is a clinically useful image including a resolution of 10 mm or better for a voxel volume of at least 5 cm in diameter and a contrast target to background ratio of radiation of at least 2:1. 