A method to graphically create a recipe for processing a substrate includes displaying graphical images that present processing operations to be performed on the substrate, allowing a user to set properties of the processing operations by manipulating the graphical images, and generating the recipe based on the properties of the processing operations set by the user and synchronizing the plurality of processing operations based on the properties. The graphical images may be time-bars in a Gantt-like chart that allows the user to see the sequence, the timing, and the durations of the processing operations.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method to graphically create a recipe for processing a substrate, comprising: activating a recipe tool running on a client computer; the recipe tool displaying non-textual graphical images to a user through a graphical user interface, the non-textual graphical images representing a plurality of processing operations to be performed on the substrate by a substrate processing system; the user setting properties of the processing operations by manipulating the non-textual graphical images through the graphical user interface; and through the recipe tool, generating a recipe based on the properties of the processing operations set by the user in the manipulating step and synchronizing the plurality of processing operations based on the properties wherein the recipe is operable to be executed on a controller that operates the substrate processing system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the properties comprise sequences, timing, and durations of the processing operations; and the processing operations comprise combinatorial processes applied to different regions of the substrate. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the properties comprise chemical composition of the processing operations. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the processing operations are performed by a system selected from the group consisting of (1) a mixing vessel, (2) a reactor, (3) a spin-rinse-dryer, and (4) a wafer handler; and the graphical images represent chemical composition provided to the system. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the properties comprise at least one of a speed, an acceleration rate, a temperature, a chemical, a flow rate, a flow cell height of the reactor, or a duration. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a subsequent processing operation depends on a state of a previous processing operation. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said manipulating the non-textual graphical images comprises setting an end condition for a processing operation to meet before the processing operation proceeds to a subsequent processing operation. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said manipulating the non-textual graphical images comprises creating a rendezvous point between at least two processing operations so the at least two processing operations proceed to subsequent processing operations at a same time. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said manipulating the non-textual graphical images comprises at least one of: setting a successor link between at least two processing operations; setting a predecessor link between at least two processing operations; and setting a start point between at least two processing operations to start at a same time. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said generating the recipe for the system comprises: creating an XML document of the recipe; and validating the XML document against at least one of (1) an XML schema of the system or (2) hardware configuration of systems to perform the processing operations. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said displaying, said setting, and said generating to occur in a machine remote from a system to perform the processing operations. 12. A method to graphically create a sequence-based recipe for processing a substrate, comprising: activating a recipe tool running on a client computer; the recipe tool displaying a non-textual graphical images to a user through a graphical user interface; the non-textual graphical images representing a chemical composition provided to a processing operation to be performed on the substrate by a substrate processing system; the user setting the chemical composition by manipulating the non-textual graphical images through the graphical user interface; and through the recipe tool, generating a sequence-based recipe based on the chemical composition set by the user in the manipulating step wherein the sequence-based recipe is operable to be executed on a controller that operates the substrate processing system. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: displaying a list of processing operations; displaying properties of the processing operations; and allowing the user to set the properties. 14. The method of claim 13: wherein: the properties comprise sequences, timing, and durations of the processing operations, and the processing operations comprise combinatorial processes applied to different regions of the substrate; and further comprising and synchronizing the processing operations based on the properties. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein: the processing operations are performed by an element selected from the group consisting of (1) a group of vessels in a mixing vessel, (2) a group of flow cells in a reactor, (3) a fluid multiplexer and (4) a wafer handler in a spin-rinse-dryer; and the non-textual graphical image illustrates the chemical composition provided to the element. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the properties comprise at least one end condition for the processing operation. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the properties comprise at least one of a speed, an acceleration rate, a temperature, a chemical, a flow rate, or a duration. 18. The method of claim 13, further comprising: adding and deleting the processing operations of the element from the list; and setting the properties of the processing operations of the element. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein said generating the recipe for the controller that operates the substrate processing system comprises: creating an XML document of the recipe; and validating the XML document against at least one of (1) an XML schema of the system or (2) validating the XML document against hardware configuration of the subsystems. 20. The method of claim 19, after said generating the recipe for the controller that operates the substrate processing system, further comprising: translating the XML document to subsystem data structures executable by the controller that operates the substrate processing system; and providing the subsystem data structures to the controller that operates the substrate processing system for executing the recipe. 21. The method of claim 12, wherein said providing, said setting, and said generating to occur in a machine remote from a system to perform the processing operations. 22. The method of claim 12, prior to said providing, said setting, and said generating, further comprising configuring hardware and chemicals of the subsystems in the recipe tool. 23. A method of validating, comprising: storing a plurality of configuration schemas for a respective plurality of substrate processing tools on a server computer; receiving a recipe operable to be executed on a controller that operates the substrate processing system through a common interface for one of the substrate processing tools; validating the recipe will run on the substrate processing tool by comparing it to the stored configuration schema; wherein receiving the recipe comprises displaying non-textual graphical images to a user through a graphical user interface, the non-textual graphical images representing the plurality of processing operations to be performed on a substrate; the user setting properties of the plurality of processing operations by manipulating the non-textual graphical images through the graphical user interface; and generating the recipe based on the properties of the plurality of processing operations set by the user properties wherein the recipe is operable to be executed on a controller that operates the substrate processing system. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising executing the recipe using the one of the substrate processing tools to perform a plurality of processing operations. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein validating the recipe comprises comparing the recipe to an eXtensible Markup Language (XML) schema of the one of the substrate processing tools. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the substrate processing tool is chosen from the group consisting of: a combinatorial processing tool, a wet processing tool, a multi-channel site isolated reactor, a physical vapor deposition (PVD) tool, an atomic layer deposition (ALD) tool, and a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) tool. 