The invention provides a method for providing human input to a computer which allows a user to interact with a display connected to the computer. The method includes the steps of placing a first target on a first portion of the user's body, using an electro-optical sensing means, sensing data related to the location of the first target and data related to the location of a second portion of the user's body, the first and second portions of the user's body being movable relative to each other, providing an output of the electro-optical sensing means to the input of the computer, determining the location of the first target and the location of the second portion of the user's body, and varying the output of the computer to the display based upon the determined locations for contemporaneous viewing by the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A touch interface comprising: a touch surface; a touch sensor adapted to detect the position of a first touch input on the touch surface; and a transducer responsive to the touch sensor and adapted to actuate the touch surface proximate the first touch input with a tactile feedback signal in response to the touch input. 2. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the transducer is operable to impart a pulse to touch surface in response to the first touch input. 3. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the transducer is operable to impart a pulse sequence to the touch surface in response to the first touch input. 4. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein: the touch sensor is adapted to detect the position of a second touch input on the touch surface; and the transducer is adapted to actuate the touch surface proximate the second touch input with a tactile feedback signal in response to the second touch input. 5. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface is adapted to display visually observable data. 6. The touch interface of claim 5 wherein the touch surface is operable to change the visually observable data in response to a voice input. 7. The touch interface of claim 5 wherein the touch surface is operable to change the visually observable data in response to the first touch input. 8. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 9. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface is located on an automobile dashboard. 10. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface is adapted to receive vehicle input commands. 11. A computer implemented method for providing force feedback, the method comprising: providing a touch surface; detecting a first touch input on the touch surface; determining the location of the first touch input on the touch surface; and actuating the touch surface with a tactile feedback signal proximate the first touch input in response to the determining step. 12. The method according to claim 11 further including: detecting a second touch input on the touch surface; determining the location of the second touch input different from the first touch input; and actuating the touch surface with a tactile feedback signal proximate the second touch input. 13. The method according to claim 12 further including: providing a first transducer operable to impart a pulse to the first portion of the touch surface in response to the first touch input; and providing a second transducer operable to impart a pulse to the second portion of the touch surface in response to the second touch input. 14. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch surface is adapted to display visually observable data. 15. The method according to claim 14 further including changing the visually observable data in response to the first touch input. 16. The method according to claim 14 further including changing the visually observable data in response to a voice input. 17. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch surface is operable to receive a vehicle input command. 18. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch surface is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 19. The control interface of claim 11 wherein the touch surface is located on an automobile dashboard. 20. A computer implemented method for providing tactile feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising providing a touch surface; determining the position of a first touch input at a first portion of the touch surface; and actuating the first portion of the touch surface proximate the first touch input to provide a first tactile force feedback signal to the user in response to the determining step. 21. The method according to claim 20 wherein providing a first feedback signal includes vibrating the touch surface with at least one of a first frequency, a first intensity, and a first pulse sequence. 22. The method according to claim 21 further including: determining the position of a second touch input at a second portion of the touch surface; and actuating the second portion of the touch surface to provide a second tactile force feedback signal to the user. 23. The method according to claim 22 wherein providing a second feedback signal includes vibrating the touch surface with at least one of a second frequency, a second intensity, and a second pulse sequence. 24. The method according to claim 20 further including providing a transducer. 25. The method according to claim 24 wherein the transducer includes a piezoelectric transducer. 26. The method according to claim 20 wherein the touch surface is a touch screen adapted to display visually observable data. 27. The method according to claim 20 wherein the first touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the touch surface. 28. The method according to claim 20 wherein the touch surface is operable to receive a vehicle input command. 29. The method according to claim 20 wherein the touch surface is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 30. The control interface of claim 20 wherein the touch surface is located on an automobile dashboard. 