A system and associated method is provided for sorting parts, which includes a conveyor system for receiving and circulating a plurality of randomly presented parts, a sorting buffer for accumulating selected parts from the plurality of randomly presented parts in an assigned buffer location, and a sequencing system for sequencing the accumulated selected parts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A part sorting process comprising: loading a plurality of randomly presented parts onto a part conveyance system, the randomly presented parts being associated with predetermined groups; selecting parts from the randomly presented parts using a sensor system based on a particular orientation of the selected parts; mapping an identification of each of the selected parts to an identification of a corresponding part carrier; positioning the selected parts into the corresponding part carriers; sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups; and sequencing the group of associated part carriers, wherein the predetermined association of the selected parts comprises a predetermined association of selected dental aligners, wherein the selected dental aligners are associated by a dental prescription for a dental patient. 2. The part sorting process of claim 1, further comprising: identifying the orientation of the selected parts; and manipulating the selected parts to achieve a desired orientation. 3. The part sorting process of claim 1, wherein sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups comprises: assigning the selected parts to a buffer location; advancing the selected parts to a receiving portion of the assigned buffer location; and advancing the selected parts into the assigned buffer location. 4. The part sorting process of claim 1, wherein sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups comprises accumulating the selected parts into a buffer location. 5. The part sorting process of claim 1, wherein sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups comprises: assigning a first selected part to a first buffer location; assigning a second selected part to a second buffer location; advancing the first selected part to a receiving portion of the assigned first buffer location; advancing the first selected part into the assigned first buffer location; advancing the second selected part to a receiving portion of the assigned second buffer location; and advancing the second selected part into the assigned second buffer location. 6. The part sorting process of claim 1, further comprising storing an incomplete group of associated parts in a first storage location. 7. The part sorting process of claim 6, wherein storing an incomplete groups of associated parts in a first storage location comprises: loading an incomplete group of associated parts onto at least one pallet; and routing the at least one pallet to the first storage location. 8. The part sorting process of claim 7, further comprising: removing the at least one pallet from the first storage location: unloading incomplete groups of associated parts off of the at least one pallet; and completing the incomplete groups of associated parts. 9. The part sorting process of claim 6, wherein the first storage location is a carousel. 10. The part sorting process of claim 1, wherein sequencing the group of associated parts comprises sequencing the group of associated parts into a numerical sequence. 11. The part sorting process of claim 1, wherein sequencing the group of associated part carriers comprises: assigning each of the associated parts a sequencing location; and advancing each of the associated parts to its respective assigned sequencing location until the associated parts are grouped into a predetermined sequence. 12. The part sorting process of claim 1, wherein sequencing the group of associated part carriers comprises: assigning one of the associated parts to a first sequencing location; and advancing the assigned one of the associated parts to the assigned first sequencing location. 13. The part sorting process of claim 1, further comprising conveying unidentified parts to a quality control station. 14. The part sorting process of claim 1, further comprising continuously loading unselected randomly presented parts until all randomly presented parts have been selected. 15. A part sorting process comprising: loading a plurality of randomly presented parts onto a part conveyance system, the randomly presented parts being associated with predetermined groups; selecting parts from the randomly presented parts using a sensor system based on a particular orientation of the selected parts; mapping an identification of each of the selected parts to an identification of a corresponding part carrier; positioning the selected parts into the corresponding part carriers; sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups; and sequencing the group of associated part carriers, wherein the predetermined association of the selected parts comprises a predetermined association of selected dental aligners, wherein the selected dental aligners are associated by a dental prescription for a dental patient; and wherein the associated selected dental aligners are identified in the dental prescription as for use in a prescribed order of use and wherein sequencing the group of associated part carriers comprises sequencing the group of associated part carriers based on the prescribed order of use in the dental prescription. 16. The part sorting process of claim 15, further comprising: identifying the orientation of the selected parts; and manipulating the selected parts to achieve a desired orientation. 17. The part sorting process of claim 15, wherein sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups comprises: assigning the selected parts to a buffer location; advancing the selected parts to a receiving portion of the assigned buffer location; and advancing the selected parts into the assigned buffer location. 18. The part sorting process of claim 15, wherein sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups comprises accumulating the selected parts into a buffer location. 19. The part sorting process of claim 15, wherein sorting each part carrier into a group of associated part carriers based on the association of the selected parts with the predetermined groups comprises: assigning a first selected part to a first buffer location; assigning a second selected part to a second buffer location; advancing the first selected part to a receiving portion of the assigned first buffer location; advancing the first selected part into the assigned first buffer location; advancing the second selected part to a receiving portion of the assigned second buffer location; and advancing the second selected part into the assigned second buffer location. 