A robotic pet-sitter system comprises a control system and a robotic body, the control system used to wireless launch control instruction signals; a wireless receiver module is defined in the robotic body, used to receive control instruction signals and to process the control instruction signals into control signals, the robotic body further comprises a driving system and a feeding module, the driving system used to drive the robotic body moving according to the control signals, the feeding module used to open the feeding box placed with pet food according to the control signals. The local PC communicates with a remote PC through Internet, and the remote PC long-distance controls the robotic body and monitors pet through Internet. The robotic pet-sitter system of the present invention can care for and monitor the pet when the owner is not at home.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic pet-sitter system, comprising a control system and a robotic body, the control system used to wirelessly launch control instruction signals; the robotic body having a wireless receiver module, used to receive control instruction signals and to process the control instruction signals into control signals, a driving system and a feeding module, the driving system configured to move the entire robotic body according to action instructions of the control signals thereby allowing the robotic body to freely traverse a distance or area, the feeding module used to open the feeding box placed with pet food according to feeding instructions of the control signals, wherein the control system comprises a control module used to send out control instructions, a signal processing and transmission module, the signal processing and transmission module used to enlarge and modulate control instructions sent out by the control module, and wireless launch control instruction signals after modulation; the wireless receiver module comprises a wireless communication module, a main control module and a motor control module, the main control module connecting with the wireless communication modules, used to decode the control instruction signals received by the wireless communication module into the control signals, the motor control module used to amplify the control signals and to control the driving system and the feeding module. 2. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 1, wherein the control system further comprises an audio processing module and an audio transmission module connecting with the control module, and the robotic body further comprises a wireless audio receiver and a speaker for audio signals transmission and broadcasting. 3. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 2, wherein the signal processing and transmission module comprises a radio module, a modulation circuit connecting with the control system, the modulation circuit used to amplify and modulate the control instructions, the wireless transmission module used to launch control instruction signals after modulation. 4. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 1, wherein the robotic body further comprises a camera, the camera connecting with the wireless communication module, used to process the obtained image into video signals, and launch out through the wireless communication module; the control system further comprises a wireless camera receiver module to receive the video signals, an A/D image converter connecting with the wireless camera receiver module, and an image processing display device connecting with the control module, the ND image converter used to A/D convert the received video signals, then to process and to display the converted digital video signals by the image processing display device. 5. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 4, wherein the control system further comprises an audio processing module and an audio transmission module connecting with the control module, and the robotic body further comprises a wireless audio receiver and a speaker for audio signals transmission and broadcasting. 6. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 5, wherein the control module, the image processing display device and the audio processing module are realized by using a local PC. 7. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 6, wherein the local PC communicates with a remote PC through Internet, and the remote PC long-distance controls the robotic body and monitors pet through Internet. 8. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 5, wherein the signal processing and transmission module comprises a radio module, a modulation circuit connecting with the control system, the modulation circuit used to amplify and modulate the control instructions, the wireless transmission module used to launch control instruction signals after modulation. 9. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 4, wherein the robotic body further comprises a camera-driven motor, the motor-driven camera connecting with the motor control module, used to adjust the camera's pitching angle according to camera-driven instructions of the control signals. 10. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 9, wherein the control system further comprises an audio processing module and an audio transmission module connecting with the control module, and the robotic body further comprises a wireless audio receiver and a speaker for audio signals transmission and broadcasting. 11. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 10, wherein the control module, the image processing display device and the audio processing module are realized by using a local PC. 12. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 11, wherein the local PC communicates with a remote PC through Internet, and the remote PC long-distance controls the robotic body and monitors pet through Internet. 13. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 10, wherein the signal processing and transmission module comprises a radio module, a modulation circuit connecting with the control system, the modulation circuit used to amplify and modulate the control instructions, the wireless transmission module used to launch control instruction signals after modulation. 14. A robotic pet-sitter system, comprising a control system and a robotic body, the control system used to wirelessly launch control instruction signals; the robotic body having a wireless receiver module, used to receive control instruction signals and to process the control instruction signals into control signals, a driving system and a feeding module, the driving system used to drive the robotic body moving according to action instructions of the control signals, the feeding module used to open the feeding box placed with pet food according to feeding instructions of the control signals wherein the robotic body is a spherical structure body, tracks being defined in its both sides, the driving system and the feeding module being installed in the spherical structure body. 15. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 14, wherein the driving system comprises at least a drive motor and a motion gear, the motion gear being defined inside the track, driving the motion gear by the drive motor defined in the spherical structure body. 16. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 14, wherein the feeding module comprises a feeding motor and a feeding box, the feeding motor is connected with the motor control module, used to drive the switch of the feeding box; the feeding box is defined under a cover plate fixed in the side of a spherical structure body, being several feeding lattices for placing with pet food, a feeding mouth being defined in the bottom of the cover plate, and the feeding motor driving the feeding box rotating, used to select the feeding lattices corresponding to the feeding mouth. 17. The robotic pet-sitter system of the claim 16, wherein a counterweight is defined in the spherical structure body, the counterweight is fixed connection with the spherical structure body, used to maintain the vertical position that the spherical structure body on the track. 