A method and system for making a dental prosthetic includes, for example, arranging a first virtual tooth image relative to a second virtual tooth image on a virtual denture set and locating a first actual prosthetic tooth relative to a second actual prosthetic tooth in a manner corresponding to the arranged first and second virtual images. The method also may include performing at least one Boolean operation to remove a portion of the first virtual tooth image and the second virtual tooth image and machining the first actual prosthetic tooth and the second actual prosthetic tooth to remove a portion correspond to material removed by the Boolean operation performed on the first and second virtual tooth images.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of manufacturing a dental prosthetic, comprising: arranging a first virtual tooth image relative to a second virtual tooth image on a virtual denture set; said first virtual tooth image and said second virtual tooth image respectively representative of a first actual prosthetic tooth and a second actual prosthetic tooth; performing at least one Boolean operation to remove a virtual portion of the first virtual tooth image and the second virtual tooth image; machining the first actual prosthetic tooth and the second actual prosthetic tooth to remove an actual portion of prosthetic tooth material corresponding to said virtual portion removed by the at least one Boolean operation performed on the first and second virtual tooth images; generating a virtual positioning block having indentations shaped to fit the first and second virtual teeth images; and manufacturing an actual positioning block corresponding to the virtual positioning block. 2. The method of claim 1, including placing the first and second actual prosthetic teeth in the indentations in the actual positioning block and wherein machining the first and second prosthetic teeth is performed with the first and second actual prosthetic teeth in the indentations. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating a virtual positioning block includes creating the virtual block over the first and second virtual teeth images and removing the shape of the first and second virtual teeth from the virtual block. 4. The method of claim 1, including generating a virtual image of a dental cast of a portion of a patient's inner mouth. 5. The method of claim 4, including creating one of a record base and a wax rim based on the virtual image of the dental cast. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein machining the first and second actual prosthetic teeth includes: generating programming, data for operating a tool cutting machine to cut shapes corresponding to the virtual material removed by the Boolean operation; and transferring the programming data to the tool cutting machine. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second virtual tooth images are computer generated 3-D models. 8. The method of claim 1, comprising: receiving information relating to alignment of the first and second actual prosthetic teeth relative to a patient's opposing dental elements; and generating virtual images of the patient's opposing dental elements; recording the information relating to the alignment to determine virtual interferences between the first virtual tooth image and opposing virtual dental elements; and removing at least a portion of the virtual interferences using Boolean operations. 9. The method of claim 1, including scanning the first and the second actual prosthetic teeth to generate the first virtual tooth image and second virtual tooth image, respectively. 10. A method of manufacturing a dental prosthetic, comprising: arranging a first virtual tooth image relative to a second virtual tooth image on a virtual denture set; said first virtual tooth image and said second virtual tooth image respectively representative of a first actual prosthetic tooth and a second actual prosthetic tooth; performing at least one Boolean operation to remove a virtual portion of the first virtual tooth image and the second virtual tooth image; machining the first actual prosthetic tooth and the second actual prosthetic tooth to remove an actual portion of prosthetic tooth material corresponding to said virtual portion removed by the at least one Boolean operation performed on the first and second virtual tooth images; generating a virtual image of a dental cast of a portion of a patient's inner mouth; creating one of a record base and a wax rim based on the virtual image of the dental cast; and one of: machining the one of the record base and the wax rim; and digital layer manufacturing the one of the record base and the wax rim. 