An industrial printer includes a frame; a cabinet defining a media path; a pagewidth printhead arranged on the frame for printing images on blank web media; pilot guides for guiding the blank web media fed from cartridges via the media path past the pagewidth printhead to facilitate printing; a dryer module configured to operatively dry the printed web media; and a cutter module for cutting the printed web media before the printed web media is fed into a container for storing the web media in a roll. The cutter module includes a frame having end plates, and a pair of entry rollers and a pair of exit rollers serving as a transport mechanism for the web media through the module. The cutter module further includes a slitter gang composed of a plurality of slitters each having a plurality of blades, the slitter gang being located between the end plates. The dryer module includes a plenum defined vertically downward through the cabinet for supplying air received from a top of the plenum to the media path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An industrial printer comprising: a frame; a cabinet on the frame, the cabinet configured to receive replaceable ink reservoirs and cartridges of continuous blank web media, the cabinet defining a media path; a pagewidth printhead arranged on the frame for printing images on the blank web media; pilot guides for guiding the blank web media fed from the cartridges via the media path past the pagewidth printhead to facilitate printing; a dryer module configured to operatively dry the printed web media; and a cutter module for cutting the printed web media before the printed web media is fed into a container for storing the web media in a roll, wherein the cutter module includes a frame having end plates, and a pair of entry rollers and a pair of exit rollers serving as a transport mechanism for the web media through the cutter module, the cutter module further includes a slitter gang composed of a plurality of slitters each having a plurality of blades, the slitter gang being located between the end plates, and the dryer module includes a plenum defined vertically downward through the cabinet for supplying air received from a top of the plenum to the media path. 2. The industrial printer of claim 1, wherein the cabinet receives the replaceable ink reservoirs so as to be located above the pagewidth printhead, and the pagewidth printhead further includes a harness having a number of ink supply tubes for carrying different ink colors from the reservoir to the pagewidth printhead. 3. The industrial printer of claim 1, further comprising a heated platen positioned in the media path downstream of the pilot guides for heating the blank web media prior to printing. 4. The industrial printer of claim 1, wherein the dryer module further includes a drying compartment, the drying compartment defining a catenary path through which the web media operatively traverses after printing, whereby additional path length and drying time is provided before the printed web media is fed into the container. 5. The industrial printer of claim 1, wherein the dryer module further includes one or more centrifugal fans and one or more heating elements, the one or more centrifugal fans being positioned at the top of the plenum to provide a supply of air through the plenum and across the one or more heating elements. 6. The industrial printer of claim 1, further comprising a central guide roller extending between the end plates and beneath the slitter gang, the central guide roller having a succession of circumferential grooves formed along its length, the circumferential grooves corresponding to a position of respective blades formed on each slitter of the slitter gang. 