A method of forming a silicon nitride layer is described. According to the present invention, a silicon nitride layer is deposited by thermally decomposing a silicon/nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas at low deposition temperatures (e.g., less than 550.degree. C.) to form a silicon nitride layer. The thermally deposited silicon nitride layer is then treated with hydrogen radicals to form a treated silicon nitride layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of processing a substrate in a processing chamber, comprising: heating a substrate to a temperature of 550.degree. C. or less; thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas to deposit a silicon nitride layer on a surface of the substrate, wherein the silicon containing source gas or the silicon and nitrogen containing source gas comprises a compound having bonds selected from the group of Si--Si, N.dbd.N, N--N, or combinations thereof and the silicon nitride layer has a first hydrogen atomic percent of greater than 15 atomic percent; and exposing the silicon nitride layer to hydrogen radicals, wherein the hydrogen radicals are formed by plasma decomposition of a hydrogen containing source gas, and the exposed silicon nitride layer has a second hydrogen atomic percent of less than 10 atomic percent. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the hydrogen containing source gas comprises ammonia (NH.sub.3), hydrogen gas (H.sub.2), or a combination of ammonia (NH.sub.3) and hydrogen gas (H.sub.2). 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the silicon nitride layer is treated with hydrogen radicals at a flux between 5.times.10.sup.15 atoms/cm.sup.2-1.times.10.sup.17 atoms/cm.sup.2. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein hydrogen containing source gas further comprises an inert gas selected from the group consisting of nitrogen gas (N.sub.2), argon (Ar) and helium (He). 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plasma decomposition of the source gas occurs physically remote from the chamber in which the silicon nitride layer is treated with hydrogen radicals. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the thermal decomposition temperature is less than 500.degree. C. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the silicon nitride layer is formed at a deposition rate of greater than 100 .ANG. per minute. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the silicon containing source gas or the silicon and nitrogen containing source gas comprises a first silicon atom bonded to a second silicon atom by a single bond and at least a chlorine (Cl) atom or a nitrogen (N) atom bonded to the first silicon atom and the second silicon atom. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the silicon nitride layer has a chlorine concentration of less than 1.0 atomic percent after exposing the silicon nitride layer to hydrogen radicals. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein an organo group is bonded to a nitrogen atom. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the silicon nitride layer has a carbon concentration of less than 5 atomic percent after exposing the silicon nitride layer to hydrogen radicals. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the silicon containing source gas or the silicon and nitrogen containing source gas comprises a compound selected from the group having the structures of R.sub.2N--Si(R'.sub.2)--Si(R'.sub.2)--NR.sub.2, R.sub.3--Si--N.sub.3, R'.sub.3--Si--NR--NR.sub.2, wherein R and R' comprise one or more functional groups selected from the group of a halogen, an organic group having one or more double bonds, an organic group having one or more triple bonds, an aliphatic alkyl group, a cyclical alkyl group, an aromatic group, an organosilicon group, an alkyamino group, or a cyclic group containing N or Si, and combinations thereof. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein R and R' comprise one or more functional groups selected from the group of chloro, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, trimethylsilyl, pyrrolidine, and combinations thereof. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the silicon containing source gas or the silicon and nitrogen containing source gas comprises 1,2-dichloro-tetrakis (diethylamino) disilane. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the silicon nitride layer has a chlorine concentration of less than 1.0 atomic percent after exposing the silicon nitride layer to hydrogen radicals, the silicon nitride layer has a carbon concentration of less than 5 atomic percent after exposing the silicon nitride layer to hydrogen radicals, or a combination thereof. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: depositing a second silicon nitride layer onto the treated silicon nitride layer by thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas; and exposing the second silicon nitride layer with hydrogen radicals. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: depositing a third silicon nitride layer on the second treated silicon nitride layer by thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas; and exposing the third silicon nitride layer with hydrogen radicals. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the silicon nitride deposited layer is treated with hydrogen radicals at a temperature between 450.degree. C. and 600.degree. C. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein after treating the silicon nitride layer, the silicon nitride layer has a second hydrogen atomic percent of less than 10 atomic percent, a refractive index of greater than or equal to 1.90 after exposing the silicon nitride layer to hydrogen radicals, an etch rate of approximately the same as the etch rate of silicon oxide utilizing a buffered oxide etch, or a combination thereof. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas is performed at a chamber pressure between about 10 torr and about 350 torr. 21. A method of forming a silicon nitride layer in a processing chamber, comprising: depositing a silicon nitride layer by thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas at a temperature of less than 550.degree. C. and at a deposition rate of greater than 100 .ANG. per minute to a thickness of less than 150 .ANG. and the deposited silicon nitride layer has a first hydrogen atomic percent of greater than 15 atomic percent; and exposing the deposited silicon nitride layer to hydrogen radicals formed by plasma decomposition of a hydrogen containing gas, and the exposed silicon nitride layer has a second hydrogen atomic percent of less than 10 atomic percent. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the silicon containing source gas or the silicon and nitrogen containing source gas is selected from the group consisting of an organo-di- or mono-silane or an organoamino-di or mono-silane. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the hydrogen containing source gas comprises ammonia (NH.sub.3), hydrogen gas (H.sub.2), or a combination of ammonia (NH.sub.3), hydrogen gas (H.sub.2). 24. The method of claim 21, wherein the deposited silicon nitride layer is treated with hydrogen radicals having a flux of between 5.times.10.sup.15 atoms/cm.sup.2-1 .times.10.sup.17 atoms/cm.sup.2. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein the plasma decomposition is remote from the chamber in which the deposited silicon nitride layer is exposed to hydrogen radicals. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein the deposited silicon nitride layer is exposed to the same chamber in which the deposited silicon nitride layer is deposited. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein the thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas is performed at a chamber pressure between about 10 torr and about 350 torr. 28. A method of forming a silicon nitride layer in a processing chamber, comprising: depositing a silicon nitride layer by thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas wherein the silicon containing source or the silicon and nitrogen containing source gas comprises chlorine and carbon and the silicon nitride layer has a first hydrogen atomic percent of greater than 15 atomic percent; and treating the deposited silicon nitride layer with hydrogen radicals formed by plasma decomposition of a hydrogen containing gas to form a treated silicon nitride layer and the treated silicon nitride layer has a second hydrogen atomic percent of less than 10 atomic percent. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the thermally decomposing a silicon and nitrogen containing source gas or a silicon containing source gas and a nitrogen containing source gas is performed at a chamber pressure between about 10 torr and about 350 torr. 