A laser welding apparatus and method for easily adjusting a laser focusing position according to a distance from a laser irradiating device to a laser irradiating point on a work piece, or a welding point. A post-collimation laser diameter is measured when the laser emitting end has an optimal laser diameter on the work piece with respect to the distance from the laser processing head to the work piece. Corresponding data is stored with the above distance and the post-collimation laser diameter corresponding to each other. During welding, a diameter of the laser beam passing through a collimate lens is measured by a laser diameter measuring device. The post-collimation laser diameter is adjusted to be an optimal value according to the corresponding data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser welding apparatus for performing welding by irradiating a laser beam, comprising: a laser oscillator for generating a laser beam; a laser irradiating device for changing an irradiating direction of the laser beam and operable to irradiate the laser beam at a laser irradiating point located at a second distance from the laser irradiating device; a laser irradiating pointer laser diameter measuring device for calibrating the diameter of the laser beam at a laser irradiating point; a replaceable beam guiding device operable to guide the laser beam from the laser oscillator to the laser irradiating device, wherein the beam guiding device has a laser emitting end; a collimating lens disposed on the laser irradiating device between the laser emitting end and the laser irradiating point at a first distanced from the laser emitting end of the beam guiding device, the collimating lens being shaped to output an inputted laser beam as a parallel beam; a condensing lens for condensing the parallel beam prior to irradiating the laser irradiating point; a distance changing device operable to change a first distance between the laser emitting end and the beam guiding device and the collimating lens; and a control unit programmed to: determine an optimal diameter of the laser irradiating point using the laser irradiating point laser diameter measuring device, the optimal diameter corresponding to the second distance between the laser irradiating device and the laser irradiating point; store a first relationship between a plurality of laser irradiating point diameters at the laser irradiating point and corresponding post-collimation laser diameters of the parallel beam such that each of the laser irradiating point diameters corresponds to an optimal diameter with respect to the second distance from the laser irradiating device to the laser irradiating point as the second distance varies; and actuate the distance changing device to obtain an optimal laser diameter of the laser beam at the laser irradiating point based on the first stored relationship. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the distance changing device is a laser emitting end position changing device operable to change the first distance by moving a position of the laser emitting end. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: wherein the control unit is further operable to: change the first distance such that the post-collimation laser diameter results in an optimal laser diameter of the laser irradiating point by referring to the stored first relationship. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the control unit is further operable to: store a second relationship between a plurality of condensing lens-positions and corresponding laser irradiating point diameters at the laser irradiating point such that each of the laser irradiating point diameters is a corresponding optimal diameter with respect the second distance from the laser irradiating device to the laser irradiating point as the second distance varies. 5. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the control unit is further operable to: move a condensing lens position such that the condensing lens position results in the optimal laser diameter of the laser irradiating point by further referring to the stored second relationship. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the condensing lens is located between the lens and the laser irradiating point. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6, the apparatus further comprising: a condensing lens actuating device operable to changed position of the condensing lens closer to or further from the collimating lens. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the control unit is further operable to store a third relationship of an optimal laser diameter of the laser irradiating point with respect to both the first distance and a third distance from the condensing lens position in the laser irradiating device to the laser irradiating point. 9. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the distance changing device is further operable to change the first distance and the condensing lens actuating device is operable to move the condensing lens corresponding to the stored relationship. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: wherein the distance changing device is a laser emitting and position changing device operable to change the first distance by moving the laser emitting end position responsive to the post collimation laser diameter. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a reflecting mirror operable to, change an irradiating direction of the laser beam. 12. A laser welding apparatuss for performing welding by irradiating a laser beam, comprising: means for generating a laser beam; means for changing an irradiating direction of the laser beam and for irradiating the laser beam at a laser irradiating point hated at a second distance from the laser beam generating means; means for measuring the diameter of the laser beam at a laser irradiating point for calibrating the diameter of the laser beam at the laser irradiating point; replaceable means for guiding the laser beam from the generating means to the changing means, wherein the guiding means has a laser emmiting end; means for collimating the laser beam into a parallel beam; means for measuring the diameter of the parallel beam; means for condensing the parallel beam prior to irradiating the laser irradiating point; distance changing means for changing a first distance between the guiding means and a lens disposed on the changing means, the lens located between the guiding means and the laser irradiating point; and control means for: determining an optimal diameter of the laser irradiating point using the means for measuring the diameter of the laser beam at laser irradiating point, the optimal diameter corresponding to the second distance between the laser irradiating point and the laser beam generating means; storing a relationship between a plurality of laser irradiating point diameters at the laser irradiating point and corresponding post-collimation laser diameters of the parallel beam such that each of the laser irradiating point diameters corresponds to and optimal diameter with respect to the second distance from the laser beam generating means to the laser irradiating point as the second distance varies; and actuating the distance changing means to obtain an optimal diameter of the laser beam at the laser irradiating point based on the stored relationship. 13. A method of adjusting a laser beam of a laser welding apparatus including a laser oscillator for generating the laser beam, a laser irradiating device operable to change an irradiating direction of the laser beam at a laser irradiating point, a laser irradiating point laser diameter measuring device for calibrating the diameter of the laser beam at a laser irradiating point, and a replaceable beam guiding device for guiding the law beam from the laser oscillator to the laser irradiating device; and wherein the laser irradiating device includes a collimating lens between the beam guiding device and the laser irradiating point for producing a parallel laser beam, the method comprising: detaching the replaceable beam guiding device from the laser irradiating device; attaching a second replaceable beam guiding device to the laser irradiating device or to a second laser irradiating device; determining a laser diameter at the laser irradiating point using the laser irradiating point laser diameter measuring device; measuring a diameter of the parallel laser beam; and automatically changing a liar distance between the second beam guiding device and an associated lens based on a stored relationship between a plurality of laser diameters at the laser irradiating point and corresponding parallel laser beam diameters such that the laser diameter of the laser irradiating point becomes an optimal diameter with respect to a second distance from the second laser irradiating device to the laser irradiating point. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein changing to first distance comprises moving the beam guiding device closer to or further from the lens. 15. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: storing a respective optimal laser irradiating point diameter of the laser irradiating point with respect to a plurality of first distances prior to detaching the beam guiding device; and wherein changing the first distance between the new beam guiding device and the associated lens further includes changing the first distance according to the laser diameter of the laser irradiating point and data resulting from the storing. 16. The method according to claim 13, the method further comprising: condensing the parallel beam using a condensing lens; and changing a location of the condensing lens with respect to the collimating lens such that the laser diameter of the laser irradiating point becomes the optimal diameter with respect to the second distance from the new laser irradiating device to the laser irradiating point. 