This invention relates to an apparatus for grading food articles by building up portions based on at least one characteristic, e.g. number of food articles, or weight of food articles. A first conveyor conveys the articles along a closed-loop conveying path, where the conveyor has a number of article holders attached to the conveyor for holding and preserving the initial position of the food articles during the conveying. The exact position of the food articles in the article holders is determined. A processor in a combination with a removing means uses this exact position to control the releasing of the food articles from the article holders into pre-fixed locations the containers and in that way controls the location of the food articles in the containers.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for grading food articles based on at least one characteristics of the food articles, wherein the grading comprises building up portions of the food articles in containers where the portions are based on at least one characteristics, comprising: determining means for determining one or more characteristic parameters indicating the characteristics of the food articles, first conveyor for conveying the food articles along a closed-loop conveying path, the conveyor comprising a number of article holders attached to the conveyor for holding the food articles during the conveying along the closed-loop conveying path, arranging means for arranging the food articles onto the article holders, the article holders being adapted to preserve the arrangement of the food articles in the article holders during the conveying, said characteristic parameters including data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, a processor for determining to which container a food article selected from said food articles in the article holders is to be fed based on the one or more characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, and a container filling station controlling the removing of the food articles from the article holders determined by the processor to pre-fixed locations in the containers and thus control the location of the articles in the containers by using said characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the determining means comprises a weight determining means, and wherein the characteristic parameters indicating the characteristics of the food articles is the weight of the food articles. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the arranging means is further adapted to arrange a part of the food articles directly into the containers prior to the release of the food articles from the food articles holders into the containers. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the arranging means comprises one or more a robotic systems. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first conveyor comprises one or more carousel conveyors. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the carousel conveyor is situated vertically in relation to the in-feed conveyor rotating along a circular path with rotational axis being substantially in the horizontal plane as the in-feed conveyor. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an in-feed conveyor for in-feeding the food articles. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a second conveyor for conveying the containers during building up the portions, the second conveyor comprising a first filling conveying section arranged below the first conveyor where the releasing of the food articles from the article holders into the containers takes place. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the second conveyor further comprises an encoder for keeping track of the position of the containers. 10. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the second conveyor further comprises a second filling conveying section where arranging a part of the food articles directly into the containers prior to the release of the food articles from the food articles holders into the containers takes place. 11. The apparatus according to claim or 8, wherein the second conveyor is adapted to move in forward and backward direction substantially perpendicular to the conveying path of the first conveyor, the second conveyor comprises an encoder for keeping track of the position of the containers and control the position of the containers during building up portions of the articles in the containers so as to control the positions of the articles in the containers and control which containers at each time should receive the articles from said removing means. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein at least one second conveyor comprise a receiving end for receiving empty or partly filled containers and a returning end for returning filled up containers, wherein the sequence of filling up the containers is such that those containers the facing the returning end are those where the portions are first build up. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an in-feed conveyor for conveying incoming food articles prior to the weighing. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the removing means comprises an angular variation mechanism associated to each respective article holders, wherein the removing comprises altering the angular position of the article holder resulting in a sliding of the food articles from the article holders into the containers. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the removing means comprises a robotic system or food articles release robotic system. 16. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a weighing means for weighing each of the containers prior to building up weight determined portions of the food articles of a final weight limit in the containers, wherein the result of the weighing by the weighing means is used as an reference or zero weight limit for each of the weight determined portions, wherein during building up the weight determined portions in each of the containers the total weight of each of the portions is frequently measured by the weighing means and compared to the sum up weight of each of the food articles in each of the containers, wherein building up each of the portions comprises releasing the food articles into the containers until the total weight of each of the portions has reached final weight limit. 17. An apparatus for grading food articles based on at least one characteristics of the food articles, wherein the grading comprises building up portions of the food articles in containers where the portions are based on at least one characteristics, comprising: determining means for determining one or more characteristic parameters indicating the characteristics of the food articles, first conveyor for conveying the food articles along a closed-loop conveying path, the conveyor comprising a number of article holders attached to the conveyor for holding the food articles during the conveying along the closed-loop conveying path, arranging means for arranging the food articles onto the article holders, the article holders being adapted to preserve the arrangement of the food articles in the article holders during the conveying, said characteristic parameters including data indicating indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, a processor for determining to which container a food article selected from said food article holders is to be fed based on the one or more characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, and a container filling station removing means for controlling the removing of the food articles from the article holders determined by the processor to pre-fixed locations in the containers and thus control the location of the articles in the containers by using said characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles-in the article holders; wherein the determining means comprises a weight determining means, and wherein the characteristic parameters indicating the characteristics of the food articles is the weight of the food articles; wherein the weight determining means is a grid-scale comprising a number of substantially horizontally and parallel extending rods arranged in an overlapping position to the closed-loop conveying path of the first conveyor. 18. An apparatus for grading food articles based on at least one characteristics of the food articles, wherein the grading comprises building up portions of the food articles in containers where the portions are based on at least one characteristics, comprising: determining means for determining one or more characteristic parameters indicating the characteristics of the food articles, first conveyor for conveying the food articles along a closed-loop conveying path, the conveyor comprising a number of article holders attached to the conveyor for holding the food articles during the conveying along the closed-loop conveying path, arranging means for arranging the food articles onto the article holders, the article holders being adapted to preserve the arrangement of the food articles in the article holders during the conveying, said characteristic parameters including data indicating indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, a processor for determining to which container a food article selected from said food article holders is to be fed based on the one or more characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, and a container filling station removing means for controlling the removing of the food articles from the article holders determined by the processor to pre-fixed locations in the containers and thus control the location of the articles in the containers by using said characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles-in the article holders; wherein the determining means comprises a weight determining means, and wherein the characteristic parameters indicating the characteristics of the food articles is the weight of the food articles; wherein the article holders comprise shovel-shaped grids comprising a number of substantially horizontally and parallel extending rods, wherein in an overlap position between the grid-scale and the shovel shaped grids the rods of the shovel-shaped grids fall within the space between two adjacent rods in the grid-scale, thereby enabling the shovel-shaped grids when approaching the grid-scale from below to go through the grid-scale. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the article holders are further associated to a displacement mechanism for enabling side-wise displacement of each holder in relation to the closed-loop conveying path. 20. A method of grading food articles based on at least one characteristics of the food articles, wherein the grading comprises building up portions of the food articles in containers where the portions are based on at least one characteristics, comprising: determining one or more characteristic parameters indicating the characteristics of the food articles, conveying the food articles along a closed-loop conveying path, the conveyor comprising a number of article holders attached to the conveyor for holding the food articles during the conveying along the closed-loop conveying path, arranging the food articles onto the article holders, the article holders being adapted to preserve the arrangement of the food articles in the article holders during the conveying, said characteristic parameters including data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, determining to which container a food article selected from said food articles in the article holders is to be fed based on the one or more characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders, and controlling the releasing of the food articles from the selected article holders to pre-fixed locations in the containers and thus control the location of the articles in the containers by using said characteristic parameters including said data indicating the initial arrangement of the articles in the article holders. 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein determining one or more characteristic parameters comprises determining the weight of the food articles and wherein the portions comprise weight-determined portions, the method further comprising arranging the food articles directly into the containers up to a first weight limit and subsequently conveying the containers towards the conveyer where the releasing from the article holders into the containers takes place until a final weight limit is reached. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the first weight limit is selected so that the difference between the weight-determined portions and the final weight limit corresponds substantially to an integer multiplication of an average weight of each individual article. 23. The method according to claim 21, wherein the portions comprise two or more different types of food articles or two or more different weight portions. 24. The method according to claim 20, wherein controlling the arrangement of the food articles comprises preserving the initial plane direction and the initial orientation of the food articles from where the food articles are arranged in a pre-defined way onto the article holders until the food articles have been released into containers or to the one or more receiving areas. 25. The method according to claim 20, wherein the food articles are arranged automatically onto the article holders. 26. The method according to claim 20, wherein the step of removing the food articles from the article holders into containers without altering the arrangement of the food articles in the article holders is performed by altering the initial angle position of the article holders until the food articles slide therefrom to the containers. 27. The method according to claim 20, wherein the step of removing the food articles from the food articles holders into the containers without altering the arrangement of the food articles in the article holders is performed by removing the food articles automatically therefrom to the containers. 