A method is disclosed for a robotic vehicle to climb a step. The robotic vehicle uses tracked flippers to engage the top of the step and drives with additional tracks other than the tracked flippers. The robotic vehicle also shifts and tilts a payload in order to move the CG of the payload ahead of the vehicle chassis and past the edge of the step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method performed by a robotic vehicle for climbing a step, the method comprising, in order substantially as recited: approaching the step; pivoting tracked flippers upward to engage an edge of the step; pivoting the tracked flippers downward to engage a top of the step; driving the vehicle forward on driven tracks different from the tracked flippers; rotating each of first and second pivots at opposite ends of a linkage that connects a payload deck to a chassis of the robotic vehicle to position the center of gravity of the payload deck and any removable payload thereon beyond the front end of the chassis and beyond the edge of the step; moving the center of gravity of the payload deck and any removable payload thereon further beyond the front end of the chassis, by tilting the deck with respect to the chassis; and driving the vehicle forward to pull the chassis over the edge of the step. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein both of the first and second pivots include independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the payload deck with respect to the chassis. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein a robotic arm module is secured to the payload deck. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein rotating the first and second pivots to position the center of gravity of the payload deck beyond the edge of the step includes sensing elements of balance through the linkage. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein sensing elements of balance through the linkage is accomplished using one or more motor loads. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic vehicle further comprises a controller disposed on the payload deck and connected to the chassis by the linkage, and operably connected to motor drivers of the chassis to drive the right and left tracks. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the controller unit is removable from the payload deck. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the payload deck further comprises a removable battery unit. 9. The method of claim 1, rotating the first and second pivots to position the center of gravity of the payload deck beyond the edge of the step includes rotating the first pivot through an angle of at least 180 degrees. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the payload deck, including a removable payload, constitutes between about 30 and 50 percent of a total weight of the vehicle. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the payload deck includes multiple payload connection pads positioned to accommodate selective connection of multiple payload units to the payload deck, and each connection pad includes connection points for both payload power and payload communication. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein a removable payload is secured to the payload deck to make a connection between the removable payload and the payload deck via the connection pads. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the first pivot of the linkage is located above and forward of the front wheel axis. 