An autonomous inspector mobile platform robot that is used to inspect a pipe or network of pipes. The robot includes a locomotion device that enables the device to autonomously progress through the pipe and accurately track its pose and odometry during movement. At the same time, image data is autonomously captured to detail the interior portions of the pipe. Images are taken at periodic intervals using a wide angle lens, and additional video images may be captured at locations of interest. Either onboard or offboard the device, each captured image is unwarped (if necessary) and combined with images of adjacent pipe sections to create a complete image of the interior features of the inspected pipe. Optional features include additional sensors and measurement devices, various communications systems to communicate with an end node or the surface, and/or image compression software.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, implemented by an autonomous robot, for inspecting an interior of a sewer pipe, the method comprising: a) capturing information about the interior of the sewer pipe via at least one sensor; b) storing data representative of the captured information; c) determining a position of the autonomous robot in the sewer pipe; d) relating the determined position to the stored data; e) traversing through the sewer pipe, while performing steps (a)-(d), wherein traversing through the sewer pipe comprises traversing based on the captured information, and wherein at least steps (a)-(b) and (e) are performed automatically by the autonomous robot; and (f) utilizing a tether connected to the autonomous robot to determine a distance traveled by the autonomous robot. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the information comprises capturing the information based on a mission plan stored onboard the autonomous robot. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the information comprises capturing an image of the interior of the sewer pipe. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein capturing the image comprises capturing a plurality of images. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein capturing the plurality of images comprises capturing the respective images at periodic intervals. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising generating an unwrapped image of the sewer pipe. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the unwrapped image comprises automatically stitching together at least two of the captured plurality of images. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the information comprises capturing a sound associated with a condition in the interior of the sewer pipe. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein capturing the sound comprises capturing a plurality of sounds associated with the interior of the sewer pipe. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein capturing the plurality of sounds comprises capturing the respective sounds at periodic intervals. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the information comprises capturing information about a configuration of the interior of the sewer pipe. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein capturing the configuration information comprises capturing information about the configuration of the interior of the sewer pipe at periodic intervals. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the information comprises capturing information about an elevation of the interior of the sewer pipe. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein capturing the elevation information comprises capturing information about the elevation of the interior of the sewer pipe at periodic intervals. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the information comprises capturing at least two of the following: an image of the interior of the sewer pipe; a sound associated with a condition in the interior of the sewer pipe; information about a configuration of the interior of the sewer pipe; and information about an elevation of the interior of the sewer pipe. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein traversing through the sewer pipe comprises traversing based on a mission plan stored on board the autonomous robot. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein traversing through the sewer pipe comprises changing a direction of travel of the autonomous robot based on the captured information. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein traversing through the sewer pipe comprises traversing to a predetermined location when the captured information is indicative of a blockage in the sewer pipe. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising digitizing the captured information, wherein the digitizing is performed automatically by the autonomous robot. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising compressing the data before storing the data, wherein the compressing is performed automatically by the autonomous robot. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting the stored data to a device which is external to the autonomous robot. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing the tether comprises utilizing a passive tether. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing the tether comprises utilizing an active tether. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing the tether for retrieval of the autonomous robot from the sewer pipe. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein steps (c) and (d) are performed automatically by the autonomous robot. 