A process and apparatus for making a shingle, together with the shingle made thereby, is provided, in which one or more thermoplastic materials are extruded or co-extruded to form an extrudate, with the extrudate being cut into a preliminary shingle shape, which is allowed to dissipate heat, and then is delivered to a compression mold, wherein the preliminary shingle shape is compression molded to substantially its final dimensions and is then discharged from the mold and allowed to cool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process of making shingle or tile products comprising the steps of: (a) co-extruding heated, unshaped thermoplastic materials from molten states in a co-extruder and discharging those unshaped thermoplastic materials from a mouth of the co-extruder into a formed, continuous shaped extrudate that includes a core material with a capstock product surfacing material on and adhered directly to at least a portion of a major surface of the core material of the continuous shaped extrudate and then directly cutting the extrudate into a plurality of preliminary product shapes while the preliminary product shapes are above a solidification temperature; (b) then delivering the preliminary product shapes serially along a path while allowing the preliminary product shapes to cool an amount that maintains the temperature of the preliminary product shapes above a solidification temperature; (c) then delivering the cooled but still non-solid preliminary product shapes to a compression mold; (d) molding the preliminary product shapes in the mold by compression molding the preliminary product shapes to substantially their final product dimensions, wherein the compression molding step includes causing the surfacing material to flow over at least one edge of core material, to cover that edge in each molded product; and (e) then discharging the molded products from the mold and allowing the molded products to cool to a solid state. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the preliminary product shapes are of a first size and the compression mold has a second size, and said first size is selected from the group consisting of the same as and greater than the second size. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the preliminary product shapes have dimensions, and said dimensions are equal to or greater than the final product dimensions. 4. The process of claim 1, wherein the step of co-extruding includes co-extruding more than two layers of thermoplastic material. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the delivering step includes transporting the preliminary product shapes to a compression mold, by transport means. 6. The process of claim 1, including the step of placing the preliminary product shapes between spaced apart male and female components of a mold that together have formed interiors that define substantially the final shape of the products and bringing the said components together under sufficient compression force to shape the preliminary product shapes into substantially the final dimensions of the products. 7. The process of claim 6, including the step of cutting peripheral material from edge portions of the products. 8. The process of claim 7, wherein the step of cutting peripheral material is done as part of and substantially simultaneously with the compression molding step. 9. The process of claim 6, including the step of cooling the mold during at least a portion of the compression molding step. 10. The process of claim 1, wherein a transverse cutter serially cuts off extrudate being extruded from the co-extruder into the preliminary product shapes. 11. The process of claim 6, including the step of pushing the products away from the interior of the mold. 12. The process of claim 11, wherein the pushing step is done with spring pins. 13. The process of claim 6, including the step of pushing the products away from the interior of the mold. 14. The process of claim 1, wherein the compression molding step includes forming product fastening areas in each product, that are of reduced material thickness relative to the thickness of most of the remainder of the product. 15. The process of claim 1 including the step of: providing the core material with a flame retardant. 16. A process of making shingle or tile products comprising the steps of: (a) co-extruding heated, unshaped thermoplastic materials from molten states in a co-extruder and discharging those unshaped thermoplastic materials from a mouth of the co-extruder into a formed, continuous shaped extrudate that includes a core material with a capstock product surfacing material on and adhered directly to at least a portion of a major surface of the core material of the continuous shaped extrudate and then directly cutting the extrudate into a plurality of preliminary product shapes while the preliminary product shapes are above a solidification temperature; (b) then delivering the preliminary product shapes serially along a path while allowing the preliminary product shapes to cool an amount that maintains the temperature of the preliminary product shapes above a solidification temperature; (c) then delivering the cooled but still non-solid preliminary product shapes to a compression mold; (d) molding the preliminary product shapes in the mold by compression molding the preliminary product shapes to substantially their final product dimensions, wherein the compression molding step includes causing the surfacing material to flow over at least one edge of core material, to cover that edge in each molded product; and (e) then discharging the molded products from the mold and allowing the molded products to cool to a solid state wherein the capstock product surfacing material in the mold is at a temperature of about 120.degree. F. and the core material in the mold is at a temperature in a range of 70.degree. F. to 80.degree. F. 