The present invention relates to limited incision total joint replacement methods for performing surgery on a joint in a patient's body, such as a knee. In one embodiment, an incision is made in a knee portion of one leg while a lower portion of the one leg is extending downward from an upper portion of the one leg and while a foot connected with the lower portion of the one leg is below a support surface on which the patient is disposed. The incision is relatively short, for example, between seven and thirteen centimeters. A patella may be offset from its normal position with an inner side of the patella facing inward during cutting of a bone with a cutting tool. During cutting of the bone, one or more guide members having opposite ends which are spaced apart by a distance less than the width of an implant may be utilized to guide movement of a cutting tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing total knee arthroplasty on a patient's knee, through an incision through skin of the patient's body, the method comprising: positioning a cutting guide member in alignment with a bone of the knee; cutting bone of at least first and second condyles of the knee, including initiating a cut in the bone while guiding a cutting tool along a guide surface of the cutting guide member to form a cut surface having an initial cut length, the guide surface having a length; angularly disposing the cutting tool along the guide surface to extend the cut surface from the initial cut length to an extended cut length, the extended length being longer than the length of the guide surface, at least a portion of said cut surface being located within the body with respect to the incision; removing the cutting guide member from against the bone, and then completing the cut in the bone without using the guide surface of the cutting guide, while guiding the cutting tool along the cut surface; and positioning a knee replacement component against the cut surface of the bone of the knee. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the knee replacement component is a total knee replacement component and positioning the total knee replacement component includes positioning a first portion of the total knee replacement against the cut surface of the bone, and subsequently positioning a second portion of the total knee replacement component against the cut surface of the bone. 3. The method of claim 2 further including the step of substantially immovably connecting the first and second portions of the total knee replacement component together after both portions have been positioned within the body, against the cut surface of the bone. 4. The method of claim 1, further including suspending a distal portion of the patient's leg, the distal portion including an inferior portion of the knee and portions of the leg inferior to the knee, from the knee, including bending the knee to a flexed condition, and cutting the bone of the knee while the knee is bent in the flexed condition. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein bending the knee includes hyperflexing the knee by moving a bone on a first side of a joint anteriorly with respect to a bone on a second side of the joint opposite said first side, whereby additional working space is created within the joint, and cutting the bone of the knee includes cutting the bone of the knee while the knee is hyperflexed. 6. The method of claim 1 further including distracting the knee while a distal portion of the patient's leg, the distal portion including a portion of the knee and portions of the leg inferior to the knee, is suspended from the knee, and wherein at least one of the steps of cutting the bone and positioning the total knee replacement component is performed while the knee is distracted. 7. The method of claim 1 further including displacing a patella of the knee. 8. The method of claim 7 further including cutting the patella while the patella is displaced. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the patella is displaced with an inner side of the patella remaining facing inward. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the inner side of the patella remains facing inward during the cutting and positioning steps. 11. The method of claim 1 further including everting a patella of the knee. 12. The method of claim 11 further including cutting the patella while the patella is everted. 13. The method of claim 1, further including the step of using an optical measuring device to determine if the cut has the desired configuration. 14. The method of claim 1, said positioning a cutting guide step further comprising positioning the guide surface of the cutting guide offset with respect to the lateral or medial side of the femur, the guide surface extending only part way across the distal end portion of the femur. 15. The method of claim 1, further including moving the incision or the leg to position the bone to be cut within the incision. 16. The method of claim 1, further including cutting bone of the leg using a milling cutter. 17. A method of performing a total knee arthroplasty surgery on a patient's joint through an incision, the method comprising, in the following order: positioning a cutting guide member at least part ways through the incision, against a bone of the joint, the cutting guide member having a guide surface with a length; initiating a cut in the bone while guiding a cutting tool along the guide surface to form an initial cut surface, at least a portion of said cut bone not exposed by the incision; removing the cutting guide member from against the bone of the joint; continuing the cut in the bone while guiding the cutting tool along the initial cut surface, forming a final cut surface having a cut length; positioning a first portion of a total knee replacement component against cut bone of one side of a joint, and subsequently positioning a second portion of the total knee replacement component against the cut bone on the same side of the joint; and affixing the first and second portions of the total knee replacement component together after both portions have been positioned against the cut bone within the body, each of the first and second portions of the total knee replacement component having an articulating surface; wherein the cut length is longer than the length of the guide surface. 18. The method of claim 17 further including the step of suspending a distal portion of a patient's extremity connected with the joint. 19. The method of claim 17 further including the step of distracting the joint, and wherein at least one of the steps of positioning the cutting guide member, positioning the cutting tool, initiating the cut, and continuing the cut is performed with the joint distracted. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein initiating the cut and continuing the cut are performed on a condyle of the bone. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein initiating the cut and continuing the cut are performed on both condyles of the bone. 22. The method of claim 17 further including removing the cutting guide member from the bone before continuing the cut. 23. The method of claim 17 wherein the guide surface comprises a guide slot and the step of positioning a cutting tool includes inserting the cutting tool into the guide slot. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein said step of initiating a cut in the bone is performed by a robot. 25. The method of claim 17, further including the step of inserting an endoscope through an incision proximate the knee, to visually inspect locations within the knee. 26. The method of claim 17, further including the step of inserting a cannula into a space within the knee. 27. The method of claim 26, further including the step of cutting body tissue through the cannula. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said step of positioning a knee replacement component includes inserting said knee replacement component through the cannula. 29. The method of claim 17, further including the steps of: preparing an end portion of the tibia; moving a tibial implant through the incision. 30. A method of performing a joint replacement surgery on a body of a patient through an incision, including cutting away a portion of bone of the joint, the portion of bone cut away having a length, the method comprising: aligning a cutting guide member with a bone of the joint, the guide member defining a guide surface having a guide surface length which is less than the length of the portion of bone to be cut away; positioning a cutting tool in association with the guide surface of the cutting guide member; initiating a cut in the bone while guiding the cutting tool along the guide surface to form a cut surface having an initial cut length; angularly disposing the cutting tool along the guide surface to extend the cut surface to a second cut length, the second cut length longer than the guide surface length, and at least a portion of said cut surface being located within the body with respect to the incision; and continuing the cut in the bone while guiding the cutting tool along the cut surface to extend the cut surface to a final cut length, wherein both medial and lateral condyles are cut by the cutting tool and wherein the cutting guide member is removed from against the bone of the joint prior to said step of continuing the cut in the bone. 31. The method of claim 30 further including positioning an implant against the cut bone. 32. The method of claim 30 wherein the cutting guide member is mounted to the bone and offset from a central longitudinal axis of the bone. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein the joint is a knee, and the cutting guide member is intramedullary mounted to the bone. 34. The method of claim 32 wherein the joint is a knee, and the cutting guide member is extramedullary mounted to the bone. 35. The method of claim 30, wherein at least half of the guide surface is disposed laterally to a line defining the longitudinal axis of the bone to be cut during said step of initiating the cut in the bone. 36. The method of claim 30, wherein the swath of the angularly disposed cut is formed at about right angles to the length of the incision. 37. The method of claim 30, wherein the joint is a knee, and the length of the incision is about 10 cm or less. 38. A method of performing total knee arthroplasty on a patient's knee, the knee having first and second condyles, the method comprising: forming an incision having a length of about 13 cm or less; positioning a cutting guide member in alignment with a bone of the knee, aligning the cutting guide member using references derived independently from an intramedullary device; cutting bone of at least the first and second condyles of the knee, including initiating a cut in the bone while guiding a cutting tool along a guide surface of the cutting guide member, the guide surface having a length, to form a cut surface having an initial cut length, angularly disposing the cutting tool along the guide surface in order to extend the cut surface from the initial cut length to a second cut length, the second cut length being longer than the length of the guide surface, at least a portion of said cut surface not protruding past the incision, removing the cutting guide member from against the bone, and then completing the cut in the bone, by guiding the cutting tool along the cut surface, thereby extending the cut surface from the second cut length to a final cut length; and positioning a knee replacement component against the cut bone of the knee. 39. A method of performing total knee arthroplasty on a patient's knee through an incision, the knee having first and second condyles, the method comprising, in the following order: positioning a cutting guide member in alignment with a bone of the knee; cutting bone of at least the first and second condyles of the knee, including initiating a cut in the bone while guiding a cutting tool along a guide surface of the cutting guide member, the guide surface having a length, to form a cut section of the bone, angularly disposing the cutting tool along the guide surface in order to further cut the cut section of the bone such that the cut section of the bone has a cut length longer than the length of the guide surface, at least a portion of said cut section of bone overlied by skin of the patient's body removing the cutting guide member from against the bone, and then completing the cut of the section of bone, while guiding the cutting tool along the cut in the cut section of the bone; and positioning a knee replacement component against the cut section of the bone of the knee, wherein the incision has a length of about 13 cm or less. 