Disclosed herein is a method of treating a patient, that includes providing a gastrointestinal sleeve device having an elongate tubular body, with a proximal opening and a distal opening; and positioning the gastrointestinal sleeve device in the patient's digestive tract such that the proximal opening of the tubular body is positioned at the native gastroesophageal junction to receive ingested food and liquids from the patient's esophagus and the distal opening of the tubular body is positioned in the patient's jejunum. The tubular body can then be attached near its proximal opening to the patient at the native gastroesophageal junction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating a patient, comprising the steps of: providing a gastrointestinal sleeve device having an elongate tubular body, with a proximal opening and a distal opening; and positioning the gastrointestinal sleeve device in the patient's digestive tract such that the proximal opening of the tubular body is positioned at the native gastroesophageal junction to receive ingested food and liquids from the patient's esophagus and the distal opening of the tubular body is positioned in the patient's jejunum. 2. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, further comprising the step of attaching the tubular body near its proximal opening to the patient at the native gastroesophageal junction. 3. A method of treating a patient as in claim 2, wherein the attaching step comprises attaching a cuff to the native gastroesophageal junction, and attaching the tubular body to the cuff. 4. A method of treating a patient as in claim 2, wherein the attaching step comprises using a plurality of tissue anchors. 5. A method of treating a patient as in claim 2, wherein the attaching step comprises using a tissue anchor having a transversely reduced configuration used while passing transmurally through the attachment site to a transversely enlarged configuration used after passing transmurally through the attachment site. 6. A method of treating a patient as in claim 3, wherein the tubular body is releasably attached to the cuff. 7. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of a wall of the tubular body is porous. 8. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the tubular body is impermeable such that the tubular body acts as a partial internal intestinal bypass. 9. A method of treating a patient as in claim 1, wherein the tubular body comprises a funnel at the proximal opening. 10. A method of treating a patient, comprising the steps of: providing a gastrointestinal sleeve device having an attachment cuff and an elongate tubular body, with a proximal opening and a distal opening; and positioning the gastrointestinal sleeve device in the patient's digestive tract such that a proximal opening of the cuff is positioned at the native gastroesophageal junction to receive ingested food and liquids from the patient's esophagus and the distal opening of the tubular body is positioned in the patient's duodenum. 11. A method of treating a patient as in claim 10, comprising the steps of first attaching the cuff at the native gastroesophageal junction, and second attaching the elongate tubular body to the cuff. 