Disclosed is a method, system and apparatus for use in remotely and internally tapping a conduit. The method is performed, at least partially, by an automatic mechanism or robot configured to effectively perform the tasks and various steps of the method. The method includes the steps of: (a) lining a conduit with a liner; and (b) inserting an automatic mechanism into an internal portion of the liner, wherein the automatic mechanism (i) locates a service tap connection point; and (ii) at least partially engages a fitting device within an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between a service tap internal passageway and an internal portion of the liner. An automatic mechanism, a fitting device and an insert element are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for remotely tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the method including the steps of: (a) lining the conduit with a liner; and (b) inserting an automatic mechanism into an internal portion of the liner, wherein the automatic mechanism: (i) locates the service tap connection point; and (ii) at least partially engages a fitting device with the internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap internal passageway and the internal portion of the liner. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein, prior to step (a), the method further comprises the steps of: inserting the automatic mechanism into the internal portion of the conduit, wherein the automatic mechanism: (i) locates the service tap connection point on the conduit; and (ii) engages at least a portion of an insert element, which is in operable communication with a sensing target element, with the internal surface of the service tap entry portion; and removing the automatic mechanism from the conduit. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the automatic mechanism locates the service tap connection point utilizing the sensing target element. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the automatic mechanism prepares an internal surface of a service tap entry portion of the service tap body, such that the internal surface is configured for operable engagement. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatic mechanism is a robot configured to travel within at least one of the internal portion of the conduit and the internal portion of the liner. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatic mechanism comprises at least one of the following: (i) a control mechanism configured to control at least one of a component and operation of the automatic mechanism; (ii) a user interface configured to communicate with a remote user control mechanism; (iii) at least one sensor mechanism to sense at least one of an operating parameter of the automatic mechanism and a physical characteristic of a surrounding environment; (iv) a camera mechanism configured to provide visual feedback to a remote user control mechanism; and (v) a contact mechanism configured to at least one of prepare a surface for engagement, bore an orifice and manipulate a component or any combination thereof. 7. An automatic mechanism for remotely tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the automatic mechanism configured to at least one of: (i) locate the service tap connection point on the conduit; (ii) prepare an internal surface of a service tap entry portion of the service tap body, such that the internal surface is configured for operable engagement; (iii) engage at least a portion of an insert element, which is in operable communication with a sensing target element, with the internal surface of the service tap entry portion; (iv) locate the service tap connection point utilizing the sensing target element; and (v) at least partially engage a fitting device with the internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap passageway and the internal portion of the liner. 8. The automatic mechanism of claim 7, wherein the automatic mechanism is a robot configured to travel within at least one of the internal portion of the conduit and the internal portion of the liner. 9. The automatic mechanism of claim 7, wherein the automatic mechanism further comprises at least one of the following: (i) a control mechanism configured to control at least one of a component and operation of the automatic mechanism; (ii) a user interface configured to communicate with a remote user control mechanism; (iii) at least one sensor mechanism to sense at least one of an operating parameter of the automatic mechanism and a physical characteristic of a surrounding environment; (iv) a camera mechanism configured to provide visual feedback to a remote user control mechanism; and (v) a contact mechanism configured to at least one of prepare a surface for engagement, bore an orifice and manipulate a component or any combination thereof. 10. An insert element for use in connection with tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the insert element configured for engagement with an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, wherein the insert element is in operable communication with a sensing target element configured to produce a recognizable signal. 11. The insert element of claim 10, wherein the sensing target element is at least one of positioned on, within and integral with the insert element. 12. The insert element of claim 10, wherein the sensing target element is positioned near a distal end of the insert element. 13. The insert element of claim 10, wherein the sensing target element is magnetic and the produced recognizable signal is a magnetic wave. 14. A fitting device for use in connection with tapping at least one service tap connection point on a conduit, the connection point having a service tap body with an entry portion engaged with a conduit connection orifice and a service tap internal passageway extending through the service tap body for providing fluid communication between an internal portion of the conduit and the service tap internal passageway, the fitting device configured to at least partially engage an internal surface of the service tap entry portion, thereby providing fluid communication between the service tap passageway and the internal portion of the liner. 15. The fitting device of claim 14, further comprising: a nipple element having an internal passageway configured to at least partially engage the internal surface of the service tap entry portion; and a locking means engaged with the nipple element for sealing the nipple element with respect to an internal wall of the liner. 16. The fitting device of claim 15, further comprising a gasket element positioned around at least a portion of the nipple element and in an abutting relationship with an internal wall of the liner, such that the locking means urges the gasket element against the internal wall of the liner. 17. The fitting device of claim 15, wherein the fitting device further comprises: a swage sleeve positioned within and abutting the internal surface of at least a portion of the service tap entry portion, the swage sleeve including an internal passageway extending therethrough and a tapered rim portion; wherein the nipple element further includes a swage spreader portion having a neck portion with a tapered rim portion at an end thereof, the neck portion configured to be engaged at least partially within the internal passageway of the swage sleeve, the tapered rim portion of the neck portion engaged with the tapered rim portion of the swage sleeve; wherein, when the locking means is engaged with the nipple element, the swage spreader portion is pulled, with the rim portion of the neck portion urging an outer surface of the swage sleeve towards the internal surface of the service tap entry portion. 18. The fitting device of claim 15, wherein the nipple element further includes at least one of an engagement recess and an engagement projection positioned on a portion of the nipple element, the at least one engagement recess and engagement projection configured for operable engagement with a tool element, whereby, when the tool element is rotated, the nipple element is correspondingly rotated. 19. The fitting device of claim 15, wherein the nipple element further includes an expandable portion with a rim portion positioned on the expandable portion, such that when the locking means is engaged with the nipple element, the wall of the expandable portion is forced outward, whereby the rim portion contacts and engages the internal surface of the service tap entry portion. 20. The fitting device of claim 14, further comprising a nipple element having an internal passageway configured to frictionally engage at least a portion of the internal surface of the service tap entry portion. 