A method and apparatus are provided providing a touch screen having multipoint sensing and/or force based sensing and feedback capability useful in many applications which extend beyond traditional computer applications. The touch screen can be located in many non-traditional locations as well, such as desks, tables, walls, vehicles, and the like. The apparatus may be used by a single user, or multiple users, employing fingers, hands, feet and other body portions, if desired or practical. Related applications for virtual image or physical control applications are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A touch interface comprising: a display screen including a front surface and a rear surface and adapted to display visually observable data; a sensor circuit adapted to identify a characteristic of a touch input on the front surface of the display screen; and a force element responsive to the sensor circuit and adapted to excite the display screen rear surface by generating a force feedback signal in response to the characteristic of the touch input. 2. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein: the force feedback signal includes a frequency; and the frequency is selected as a function of at least the characteristic of the touch input. 3. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein: the force feedback signal includes an intensity; and the intensity is selected as a function of at least the characteristic of the touch input. 4. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein: the force feedback signal includes a pulse sequence; and the pulse sequence is selected as a function of at least the characteristic of the touch input. 5. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the characteristic includes the location of the touch input. 6. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the characteristic includes at least a component of the force vector of the touch input. 7. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the display screen. 8. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force feedback signal is directed to a portion of the display screen underlying the touch input. 9. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force element includes a piezoelectric crystal. 10. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force element includes an air blast generator. 11. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force feedback signal is an acoustic wave signal. 12. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force element is a first force element, the touch interface further including a second force element. 13. The touch interface of claim 12 wherein the first and second force elements correspond to first and second areas of operation on the display screen. 14. The touch interface of claim 13 wherein the first and second force elements are operable to feedback data to the respective first and second areas of operation. 15. A computer implemented method for providing tactile feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a touch screen including a front surface, the touch screen adapted to display visually observable data; providing a force element to actuate the touch screen; detecting a first touch input on the touch screen front surface; determining a characteristic of the first touch input; actuating the touch screen perpendicular to the touch screen front surface with the force element to provide a first force feedback signal in response to said detecting step; detecting a second touch input; determining a characteristic of the second touch input different from the characteristic of the first touch input; and actuating the touch screen front surface with a second force feedback signal different from the first force feedback signal. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein: the first force feedback signal includes a first pulse sequence; and the second force feedback signal includes a second pulse sequence different from the first pulse sequence. 17. The method according to claim 15 wherein the second touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the touch screen. 18. The method according to claim 15 wherein the second force feedback signal is directed to a portion of the touch screen underlying the second touch input. 19. The method according to claim 15 wherein: the first force feedback signal indicates a first function selected by the user; and the second force feedback signal indicates a second function selected by the user different from the first function selected by the user. 20. The method according to claim 15 wherein the first touch input and the second touch input are simultaneously in contact with the touch screen front surface. 21. A touch interface comprising: a display screen including a front surface and adapted to display visually observable data; a sensor circuit adapted to identify the location of at least two simultaneous contacts on the front surface of the display screen; and a force element responsive to the sensor circuit and adapted to excite the display screen by generating a force feedback signal in response to at least one of the at least two simultaneous contacts. 22. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein each of the at least two simultaneous touch contacts includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the display screen. 23. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein the force feedback signal is directed to a portion of the display screen underlying at least one of the at least two simultaneous contacts. 24. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein the force feedback signal includes a variable frequency. 25. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein the sensor circuit is adapted to determine at least a component of the force vector of each of the at least two simultaneous contacts. 26. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein the force feedback signal includes a variable intensity. 27. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein the force element includes a piezoelectric crystal. 28. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein the force element includes an air blast generator. 29. The touch interface of claim 21 wherein the force feedback signal is an acoustic wave signal. 30. A computer implemented method for providing tactile feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a touch screen including a front surface, the touch screen adapted to display visually observable data; identifying a first touch input in a first location on the touch screen front surface from one of a finger and a thumb; identifying a second touch input in a second location on the touch screen front surface from one of a finger and a thumb, the first touch input and the second touch input being simultaneously in contact with the touch screen front surface, the first location and the second location being different from one another; and vibrating the touch screen front surface with a force feedback signal. 31. The method according to claim 30 wherein the force feedback signal is directed to at least one of the first location and the second location. 32. The method according to claim 30 further including: determining at least a component of the force vector corresponding to the first touch input; and determining at least a component of the force vector corresponding to the second touch input. 33. The method according to claim 30 wherein the force feedback signal includes a variable frequency. 34. The method according to claim 30 wherein the force feedback signal includes a variable intensity. 35. The method according to claim 30 wherein the force feedback signal includes a variable pulse width. 36. The method according to claim 30 wherein the force feedback signal is generated by a piezoelectric crystal. 37. The method according to claim 30 wherein the force feedback signal is generated by an air blast generator. 38. The method according to claim 30 wherein the force feedback signal is an acoustic wave signal. 39. The method according to claim 30 wherein: the force feedback signal includes a pulse sequence; and the pulse sequence varies as a function of the location of one of the first touch input and the second touch input. 40. The method according to claim 30 further including providing first and second force elements to feedback data to first and second portions of the touch screen, respectively. 41. The method according to claim 40 wherein: the touch screen includes a rear surface; and the first and second force elements are operable to actuate the touch screen rear surface. 42. The method according to claim 40 wherein at least one of the first and second force elements includes a piezoelectric crystal. 