The invention relates to a method for visualizing an overlaid presentation of x-ray images. A first two-dimensional fluoroscopy image of an object of interest is provided. A second two-dimensional x-ray image of the object is intra-operatively recorded. A color is selected to a part of the first fluoroscopy image reproducing the object of interest. A complementary color corresponding to the selected color to the same part of the second fluoroscopy image reproducing the object is selected. The fluoroscopy images provided with the colors are overlaid. Deviations in the overlaid presentation remaining are identified with one of the added colors.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for visualizing an overlaid presentation of an x-ray image of an object, comprising: providing a first two-dimensional x-ray image of the object; intra-operatively recording a second two-dimensional x-ray image of the object; selecting a first color to a part of the first x-ray image reproducing the object; adding the first color to the first x-ray image; selecting a complementary color corresponding to the first color to an identical part of the second x-ray image reproducing the object; adding the complementary color to the second x-ray image; overlaying the first x-ray image with the second x-ray image to generate the overlaid presentation of the x-ray image; and identifying a deviation in the overlaid presentation of the x-ray image with one of the first color and the complementary color. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein an identically overlaid image part in the overlaid presentation of the x-ray image is identified with a gray level. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first added color is represented by a RGB color value. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the complementary added color is represented by a RGB color value. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first x-ray image is generated from a pre-operative three-dimensional data set. 6. The method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the pre-operative three-dimensional data set is registered with the second x-ray image. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and the second x-ray images are inverted before adding the first and the complementary colors. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the overlaid presentation is represented by the following formula: .times..times..times..times..alpha..times..times..times..times..ltoreq..a- lpha.<.times..alpha..times..times..times..times..times..times..ltoreq..- alpha..ltoreq. ##EQU00003## wherein: C.sub.R1 is the first x-ray image added with the first color, C.sub.R2 is the second x-ray image added with the complementary color, I is the overlaid presentation. 9. An imaging apparatus for visualizing an overlaid presentation of an x-ray image of an object, comprising: an x-ray source that emits x-ray beams; an x-ray detector that records a second two-dimensional x-ray image of the object by detecting the x-ray beams; and an image processing unit that: receives a first two-dimensional x-ray image of the object, selects a first color to a part of the first x-ray image reproducing the object, adds the first color to the first x-ray image, selects a complementary color corresponding to the first color to an identical part of the second x-ray image reproducing the object, adds the complementary color to the second x-ray image, and overlays the first x-ray image with the second x-ray image to generate the overlaid presentation of the x-ray image that identifies a deviation with one of the first color and the complementary color. 