In one embodiment of the invention, a method of mounting a surgical robotic arm to a set-up arm of a robotic surgical system is provided that includes sliding a pair of guide slots of the surgical robotic arm over a pair of guide tabs in the set-up arm; aligning electrical connectors in the set-up arm to electrical connectors of the surgical robotic arm; and coincidentally mating male electrical connectors to female electrical connectors while finally mating the guide tabs in the set-up arm to flanges of a housing of the surgical robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: a set-up arm including a first housing; a first mounting bracket coupled to the first housing, the first mounting bracket having a left mounting rail with a left guide tab coupled thereto and a right mounting rail with a right guide tab coupled thereto, the first mounting bracket adapted to couple a surgical robotic arm to the set-up arm and support the surgical arm in a suspended position; a first electrical connector slidingly coupled to the first mounting bracket to float into alignment; and a second electrical connector slidingly coupled to the first mounting bracket to float into alignment. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the first electrical connector and the second electrical connector to float independently of each other and respectively align and mate with a third electrical connector and a fourth electrical connector of the surgical robotic arm. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the first electrical connector and the second electrical connector to commonly float together and respectively align and mate with a third electrical connector and a fourth electrical connector of the surgical robotic arm. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the first housing, the first mounting bracket and the first electrical connector and the second electrical connector are part of a set-up joint of the set-up arm. 5. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the surgical robotic arm comprises: a second housing having a left guide slot with a left flange and a right guide with a right flange; a second mounting bracket coupled to the second housing, the second mounting bracket; a third electrical connector rigidly coupled to the second mounting bracket; a fourth electrical connector rigidly coupled to the second mounting bracket; and a plurality of guide pins coupled to the second mounting bracket, the plurality of guide pins to align the first electrical connector to mate with the third electrical connector and to align the second electrical connector to mate with the fourth electrical connector. 6. The robotic surgical system of claim 5, wherein the left guide slot and the right guide slot of the second housing to respectively slide along the left mounting rail and the right mounting rail of the first mounting bracket to mate the left flange of the second housing with the left guide tab of the first mounting bracket and the right flange of the second housing with the right guide tab of the first mounting bracket to reduce pivoting of the robotic surgical arm out from the set-up arm. 7. The robotic surgical system of claim 5, further comprising: a plurality of bolts each having a head coupled to the second housing and a threaded shank inserted into openings in the second housing and screwed into threaded bolt holes of the first housing to rigidly couple the robotic surgical arm to the set-up arm. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 5, wherein the first electrical connector and the second electrical connector float independently of each other, and the plurality of guide pins includes a first pair of guide pins to align the first electrical connector to mate with the third electrical connector and a second pair of guide pins to align the second electrical connector to mate with the fourth electrical connector. 9. The robotic surgical system of claim 5, wherein the first electrical connector and the second electrical connector commonly float together, and the plurality of guide pins includes at least one pair of guide pins to commonly align the first electrical connector and the second electrical connector together to respectively mate with the third electrical connector and the fourth electrical connector. 