Exoskeleton for physical activity, specially snow skiing, for preventing knee, leg and hip injuries by preventing the excessive torsion of the knee and other movements that could be dangerous for the person wearing it, furthermore allowing control over the skis during the practice of said sport. The exoskeleton includes at least one first support member configured to couple above the knee; at least one second support member configured to couple below the knee; both of them linked together by a linkage assembly that limits that the coupling to the body of the support members reach dangerous positions; at least one clutch mechanism operatively coupled between two elements of the exoskeleton, allowing the clutching and unclutching of said two elements of the exoskeleton; and at least one sensor that detects movement or/and pressure, of a part of the body of the skier to transmit a signal to the clutch mechanism.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An exoskeleton to be worn by a person to provide protection and control over skis while snow skiing, comprising: at least one first support member configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body above the knee, at least one second support member configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body below the knee, a linkage assembly comprising an upper end and a lower end, the linkage assembly coupled at the upper end to the first support member and coupled at the lower end to the second support member, the linkage assembly generally extending along the leg when the person wears the exoskeleton; at least one clutch mechanism operatively coupled between two elements of the exoskeleton, allowing the clutching and unclutching of said two elements of the exoskeleton; and at least one sensor that detects movement, or pressure, or movement and pressure of a part of the body of the skier, the at least one sensor transmits a corresponding signal to the clutch mechanism. 2. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein said at least one sensor is placed between the foot and the ski and detects movement or pressure or movement and pressure of the foot relative to the ski and transmits a corresponding signal to the clutch mechanism. 3. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, further comprising at least one artificial joint placed between two portions of the exoskeleton such that the artificial joint transmits torque between the two portions, allowing said torque transmission independently of the angular alignment between respective torque axes of both portions. 4. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the linkage assembly comprises an upper linkage assembly with a respective upper end and a lower end, and a lower linkage assembly with a respective upper end and a lower end, and wherein, when the exoskeleton is worn by the person, the upper linkage assembly extends from the first support member to about the person's knee, and the lower linkage assembly extends from about the person's knee to the second support member. 5. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, wherein the lower end of the upper linkage assembly is linked to the upper end of the lower linkage assembly by an artificial joint located about the height of the person's knee, and wherein the joint allows flexion-extension movement of the knee. 6. The exoskeleton according to claim 5, wherein the artificial joint is a hinge. 7. The exoskeleton according to claim 5, wherein the artificial joint is configured to transmit torque between respective torque axes of both linkage assemblies allowing said torque transmission independently of the angular alignment between the respective torque axes of both portions. 8. The exoskeleton according to claim 7, wherein the joint or mechanism comprises a hinge. 9. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the first support member is configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's body at the waist or hip. 10. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the first support member is configured to couple the exoskeleton to the person's thigh. 11. The exoskeleton according to claim 3, comprising a joint that links the first support member with the linkage assembly. 12. The exoskeleton, according to claim 11, wherein the joint limits the movement or rotation in the sagittal and transverse axis of the coxofemoral joint, limiting the flexion, the extension, the abbduction and adduction of the leg to the natural or not dangerous ranges. 13. The exoskeleton, according to claim 12, wherein the ranges of rotation allowed by the joint in the sagital and transverse axis are adjustable. 14. The exoskeleton according to claim 11, wherein the joint is a double hinge joint that allows the exoskeleton to bend about two different axes. 15. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the lower end of the linkage assembly is linked to the second support member through a quick coupling mechanism that allows the user to quickly connect and disconnect the second support member to and from the linkage assembly. 16. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, further comprising one or more quick coupling mechanisms that allows the person to quickly connect and disconnect two elements of the exoskeleton. 17. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, wherein the clutch mechanism is located in the upper linkage assembly. 18. The exoskeleton according to claim 17, wherein the clutch mechanism is located between an upper part of the upper linkage assembly and a lower part of the upper linkage assembly, into which the upper linkage assembly is divided. 19. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, wherein the clutch mechanism is located in the lower linkage assembly. 20. The exoskeleton according to claim 19, wherein the lower linkage assembly is articulated in two parts, having an upper part of the lower linkage assembly and a lower part of the lower linkage assembly. 21. The exoskeleton according to claim 20, wherein the lower linking assembly is articulated by a hinge. 22. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, comprising two clutch mechanism, a clutch mechanism in the upper linkage assembly and a clutch mechanism in the lower linkage assembly. 23. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the clutch mechanism comprises: a runner; a rail defining a curved path along which the runner slides within limits defined by the rail, the limits being adjustable so as to vary the length of the curved path, said runner comprising a conical gear section; a rotor comprising in one of its two sides a first gear or first pinion that meshes with the conical gear section of said runner, said rotor further comprising on its opposite side a second gear; and a left shaft comprising a left gear and a right shaft comprising a right gear, said second gear of said rotor meshing with said left gear and said right gear, wherein the left and right shafts rotatably support respective left and right bushings; and wherein the rotor and the bushings are each of them surrounded, at least partially, by respective bands with two free ends each of them, such that the left and right ends of the primary band surrounding the rotor are separated in the lower zone of the same, and the free ends of the bands of the left and right bushings are separated in the upper zone of the bushings, having each of the bands of the bushings a free exterior end and a free interior end, such that the free interior end of the left bushing can be in contact with the left end of the primary band or band of the rotor, and the free interior end of the band of the right bushing can be in contact with the right end of the band of the rotor, remaining free the exterior ends of the bands that surround the left and right bushings. 24. The exoskeleton according to claim 23, further comprising a spring between the left and right bushings and acts on the ends of primary band or band of the rotor so as to bias said primary band. 25. The exoskeleton according to claim 23, wherein the left and right bushings are one way free wheel type bushings such that the left bushing can only transmit the torque of the shaft in clockwise direction and the right bushing can only transmit the torque in counter-clockwise direction. 26. The exoskeleton according to claim 23, further comprising thrusters connected to the sensor and wherein the exterior ends of the bands of the bushings are shifted by action of thrusters. 27. The exoskeleton according to claim 26, wherein the sensor comprises at least one rocker arm having two ends that receives on one of the two ends a movement from a boot of the user that is transmitted to the thruster. 28. The exoskeleton, according to claim 27, further comprising a clog connected to the rail, said clog configured to surround the base or sole of the boot so as to allow play with the boot in a rear part of the clog while the front part of the boot and the front part of the clog are fixed, being a front part and a rear part of the clog configured to fit to a ski binding. 29. The exoskeleton according to claim 28, wherein the second support member is the boot and the rocker arm receives a pressure signal from movement of the boot within the clog. 30. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the clutch mechanism comprises a shaft connected to the linkage assembly, said shaft located inside a body having a cylindrical cavity with two diametrically opposed cavity flanges, a rotating actuator integral to the shaft with two integral symmetrical actuator flanges are arranged inside the cylindrical cavity forming a sealed closure against walls of the cylindrical cavity, the cavity flanges located inside the body also forming a sealed closure against the rotating actuator, the cylindrical cavity thereby divided into four cavities, such that two opposing cavities are connected by a first and a second duct diagonally traversing the rotating actuator, maintaining a same pressure in opposing cavities, and contiguous cavities defined by the two diametrically opposed cavity flanges are connected by a third and a fourth duct, that get through the body and wherein the cavities and ducts are filled with a fluid for transmitting force in hydraulic mechanisms. 31. The exoskeleton according to claim 30, wherein the third and fourth duct have non-return valves such that the non-return direction of one of the valves is opposite to the direction of the non-return valve of the other duct, said valves being activated by the sensor. 32. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the clutch mechanism comprises a gear train with a rear end connected to the linkage assembly of the exoskeleton, and a front end of the train comprising a braking wheel with an integral gear or pinion; and wherein the braking wheel is configured to contact with push buttons connected to the sensor, such that actuation of one of the push buttons on the braking wheel through a rocking arm causes the linkage assembly to become integral to the gear train through the rear end connected to the lower end of the linkage assembly. 33. The exoskeleton according to claim 32, wherein the gear train is contained in a housing that is in turn coupled to a lower part of the second support member. 34. The exoskeleton according to claim 4, further comprising a torque transmission mechanism at the height of the knee and between the upper linkage assembly and the lower linkage assembly, said torque transmission mechanism comprising an upper rail located above the knee, a lower rail located below the knee, an articulated rigid member between the upper rail and the lower rail, an upper and lower runner placed in the upper and lower rails respectively, both runners connected by an articulated rigid member, each runner with movement along each respective rail, and a cable passing through the mechanism and also passing throughout the clutch mechanism. 35. The exoskeleton according to claim 34, wherein the cable extends from the first end of the upper rail, continues through the upper runner, then the articulated rigid member, then the lower runner, then to the first end of the lower rail, then contacts the brake mechanism, extends further to the second end of the lower rail opposite to the first end, again through the lower runner, then the articulated rigid member, then the upper runner and ends in the second end of the upper rail. 36. The exoskeleton according to claim 5, further comprising at least one angle limitation mechanism that limits relative rotation between the coupling to the body of the first support member and the coupling to the artificial joint at the height of the knee of the lower end of the upper linkage assembly, so as to prevent relative rotation outside a predetermined rotational range while permitting free unrestricted relative rotation within the predetermined rotational range. 37. The exoskeleton according to claim 36 wherein the angle limitation mechanism is part of the artificial joint at the height of the knee, and comprises means for coupling the upper linkage assembly and the lower linkage assembly, such that when the knee is extended the upper linkage assembly is integral to the lower linkage assembly and when the knee is completely flexed, the upper linkage assembly has complete freedom to rotate in relation to the lower linkage assembly within limits established by said angle limitation mechanism. 38. The exoskeleton according to claim 37, wherein the angle limitation mechanism at the knee has a hub with a conical cavity with four nerves and a shaft with two projections at an end, so that depending on a position of the projections in the cavity of the hub, the range of rotational movement of the projections of the shaft in respect of the nerves in the cavity varies, and therefore the range of rotational movement of the upper end of the lower linkage assembly. 39. The exoskeleton according to claim 36, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises a hub comprising a groove and a shaft that rotates within the hub and further comprises a lug, the lug movable inside the groove such that ends of the groove limit the amount of relative rotation between the shaft and the hub. 40. The exoskeleton, according to claim 39, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises adjustable elements for changing a rotation range of one element relative to the other, the adjustable elements placed in the groove or on the lug. 41. The exoskeleton according to claim 36, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises at least two partially curved plates overlapping one another and linked by rails allowing both curved plates to slide relative to each other. 42. The exoskeleton according to claim 41, wherein the plates comprise adjustable stops that limit the amount by which the plates slide relative to each other. 43. The exoskeleton according to claim 36, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises an outer member comprising an internal surface defining a guide path and an inner member comprising a raised rotational element disposed in the guide path so that rotation of the inner member is limited by the movement of the raised rotational element in the guide path. 44. The exoskeleton, according to claim 43, wherein the angle limitation mechanism comprises at least one limiting element or pin introduced in at least one hole made on the guide path surface to adjust the length of the guide path and thereby the rotation of one member relative to the other. 45. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the linkage assembly is extendable in a dynamic manner so that it can elongate or shorten. 46. The exoskeleton according to claim 45, wherein the linkage assembly comprises telescopic members. 47. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, comprising at least one length regulating mechanism along the linkage assembly that makes the linkage assembly extendable and allows the user to quickly connect and disconnect two parts of the exoskeleton, said length regulating mechanism comprising an inner member comprising a plurality of holes and an outer member comprising at least one sphere that is selectively insertable using a push button in one of the holes so as to adjust the relative position of the inner member and the outer member. 48. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, comprising at least one second support member for each leg, at least one linkage assembly for each leg, and at least one clutch mechanism for each leg. 49. The exoskeleton according to claim 3, wherein the artificial joint is an elastic joint. 50. The exoskeleton according to claim 3, wherein the artificial joint is a universal or Cardan joint. 51. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the second support member is a boot. 52. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the second support member is a binding of the ski. 53. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the second support member is a ski. 54. The exoskeleton according to claim 30, wherein the predetermined rotational range is adjustable by the person wearing the exoskeleton. 55. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the first support member is rigid. 56. The exoskeleton according to claim 55, wherein the first support member is a belt. 57. The exoskeleton according to claim 56, wherein the belt comprises two parts, a surrounding part and a front part, linked together to form a rigid whole by belt connections that are placed on the free ends of the surrounding part and the front part, so that said belt connections are superposed one on top of the other to form one element, and are fixed by a belt closure. 58. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is located between the second support member and the clutch mechanism. 59. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is located between the boot of the skier and the booty of the boot thereof. 60. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is located between the boot of the skier and a binding of the ski. 61. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, comprising at least two sensors, a first left sensor that detects movements of one foot towards the left side and a second right sensor that detects movements of said one foot towards the right side. 62. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is mechanical. 63. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is electrical. 64. The exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is hydraulic. 65. Exoskeleton, according to claim 2, wherein a mechanism is placed between the foot and the exoskeleton to prevent direct action of the exoskeleton on the sensor. 66. Exoskeleton, according to claim 1, wherein the two elements of the exoskeleton are clutched or coupled by default when the mechanism receives no action from the sensor. 67. Exoskeleton, according to claim 1, wherein the two elements of the exoskeleton are unclutched or not coupled by default when the mechanism receives no action from the sensor. 68. Exoskeleton, according to claim 1, wherein the clutch mechanism clutches or couples the two elements of the exoskeleton when an action is received from the sensor, generating a high resistance torque in only one specific rotational direction, leaving the opposite rotational direction free. 69. Exoskeleton, according to claim 1, wherein the clutch mechanism clutches or couples the two elements of the exoskeleton when an action is received from the sensor, generating a high resistance torque in both rotational directions. 70. Exoskeleton, according to claim 1, wherein the clutch mechanism is of the type that makes said clutching or unclutching between both elements of the exoskeleton progressive. 71. Exoskeleton, according to claim 1, wherein the clutching or unclutching of said two elements of the exoskeleton is based on a signal from the at least one sensor. 72. An exoskeleton to be worn by a person to provide protection and control over skis while snow skiing, comprising: first support means for coupling the exoskeleton to the person's body above the knee; second support means for coupling the exoskeleton to the person's body below the knee; a linkage assembly comprising an upper end and a lower end, the linkage assembly coupled at the upper end to the first support means and coupled at the lower end to the second support means, the linkage assembly generally extending along the leg when the person wears the exoskeleton; clutch means for clutching and unclutching two elements of the exoskeleton; and sensor means for detecting movement, or pressure, or movement and pressure of a foot of the skier, the sensor means transmitting a corresponding signal to the clutch means. 73. A method of providing and protection and control while snow skiing, comprising: providing an exoskeleton comprising a linkage assembly comprising an upper end and a lower end; coupling the upper end of the linkage assembly above the knee; coupling the lower end of the linkage assembly below the knee; detecting movement, or pressure, or movement and pressure of a foot, the step of detecting movement further comprising transmitting a signal that corresponds to the detected movement or pressure or movement and pressure of the foot; and clutching and unclutching two elements of the exoskeleton based on a predetermined value or values of the transmitted signal. 