A radiosurgery system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, other disorders or tissues of a body are treated with the dose of radiation. In some embodiments, the target tissues are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the target tissues inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the target tissues within the coordinate system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilised in which beam energy and direction and duration of time for treatment is determined for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial marker is used to identify the location of the target tissues. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system, for treating a target tissue of an eye with x-ray radiation, comprising: a radiation source that emits x-rays, the x-rays having an energy between about 1 KeV and about 500 KeV; a collimator that collimates the emitted x-rays into an x-ray beam, the x-ray beam having a dose distribution at a beam spot in a plane at the target tissue of the eye, such that the x-ray beam has a penumbra at the target tissue of less than about 20 percent; an alignment system that aligns the x-ray beam with an axis traversing the target tissue and that positions the radiation source within about 50 cm from the target tissue; and a processing module that receives an input comprising a parameter of the target tissue and that, based on the parameter, outputs to the alignment system a direction for the x-ray beam to be emitted toward the target tissue; wherein the parameter comprises a location of a fiducial marker that provides indication of a location of the target tissue; and wherein the fiducial marker comprises a component of a holder that stabilizes the eye during emission of the x-ray beam. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the alignment system is configured to align the x-ray beam repeatedly during a treatment session. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an imaging system that determines the axis traversing the target tissue. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said axis comprises a geometric axis of the eye. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said axis comprises a visual axis of the eye. 6. A system, for treating a target tissue with x-ray radiation, comprising: a radiation source that emits x-rays, the x-rays having an energy between about 1 KeV and about 500 KeV; a collimator that collimates the x-rays into an x-ray beam, the radiation source comprising an imageable light source that indicates an approximate center of a beam spot of the x-ray beam at the target tissue; an alignment system that aligns the x-ray beam with an axis traversing the target tissue and that positions the radiation source in alignment with the target tissue such that a trajectory of the x-ray beam traverses the target tissue; and a processing module that receives an input comprising a parameter of the target tissue and that, based on the parameter, outputs to the alignment system a direction for the x-ray beam to be emitted toward the target tissue, the parameter comprising a location of a fiducial marker that provides indication of a location of the target tissue; an eye holder that engages the eye during emission of the x-ray beam, the eye holder comprising the fiducial marker. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the imageable light source comprises a laser. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the alignment system further comprises a programmable electromotive system to move the x-ray source. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein the collimator is configured to collimate the x-ray beam such that the x-ray beam has a penumbra at the target tissue of less than about 20 percent. 10. The system of claim 6, wherein the alignment system positions the radiation source within about 50 cm from the target tissue. 11. A system, for treating a target tissue of an eye with x-ray radiation, comprising: a radiation source; an eye holder that engages an eye; an alignment system, coupled to the radiation source, the alignment system having a coordinate system defining an axis traversing the target tissue; and a processing module that receives an input comprising a parameter of the target tissue and that, based on the parameter, outputs to the alignment system a direction for radiation emitted from the radiation source toward the target tissue; wherein said target tissue comprises the eye and said axis traversing the eye is determined by a fiducial on the eye holder. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising an imaging system that determines the axis traversing the target tissue. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein said target tissue comprises an eye and said axis traversing the plane of the eye is determined by an anatomic feature of the eye. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein said processing module outputs a position for the radiation source. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein said axis comprises a geometric axis of the eye. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein said axis comprises a visual axis of the eye. 17. The system of claim 11, further comprising a collimator that is configured to collimate the x-ray beam such that the x-ray beam has a penumbra at the target tissue of less than about 20 percent. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein the alignment system positions the radiation source within about 50 cm from the target tissue. 