A drumming toy is provided as having a center drumming apparatus and a pair of side drumming apparatus. The center drumming apparatus includes movable drumming pads with switches that activate when the pads are pressed downwardly. The activation controls sounds. The side drumming apparatuses include controlled drumming hands that act like or connect with a side drum. The controlled drumming hands movements are directed by an integrated circuit which controls the movement to mimic the pressing of the pads.
Claims We claim: 1. A drumming toy comprising: a center drumming apparatus having a main housing with a top portion; a plurality of movable drumming pads secured to the top portion of the main housing, each drumming pad of the plurality of drumming pads having a corresponding switch positioned thereunder, wherein when the movable drumming pads are pressed downwardly, the corresponding switch positioned thereunder is activated; at least one side drumming apparatus connected about a side portion of the main housing, the at least one side drumming apparatus having a side drum housing, a drumming mechanism secured within the side drum housing, a drumming hand pivotally attached at a connection end to the drumming mechanism, and a side top drum, the drumming mechanism when activated pivotally moves an end of the drumming hand towards and away from the side top drum, the end being opposed from the connection end; and an integrated circuit in communication with the corresponding plurality of switches under the plurality of drumming pads which when activated direct preprogrammed responses from the integrated circuit and the integrated circuit in communication with the drum mechanism controls movement of the drumming hand in response to the preprogrammed responses. 2. The drumming toy of claim 1, wherein the drumming mechanism includes a rod connected at a first end to a rack and pinion gear that is driven by a motor, the motor being controlled by the integrated circuit which when activated moves the rod upwardly and downwardly along the rack, the rod having a second end connected to the connection end of the drumming hand. 3. The drumming toy of claim 1, wherein the at least one side drumming apparatus is defined by having two side drumming apparatuses. 4. The drumming toy of claim 1 further comprising a speaker in communication with said integrated circuit such that the integrated circuit directs audio output to the speaker simulating the playing of a drum in accordance to preprogramming. 5. The drumming toy of claim 2, wherein the drumming mechanism further includes a compression spring secured to the rack and the side drum housing, the compression spring having a normal bias which keeps the drumming hand positioned away from the side top drum. 6. A drumming toy comprising: a center drumming apparatus having a main housing with a top portion, a plurality of movable drumming pads secured to the top portion of the main housing, each drumming pad of the plurality of drumming pads having a corresponding switch positioned thereunder, wherein when the movable drumming pads are pressed downwardly, the corresponding switch positioned thereunder is activated; a pair of side drumming apparatuses, each connected about a side portion of the main housing, each side drumming apparatus having a side drum housing, a drumming mechanism secured within the side drum housing, a drumming hand pivotally attached at a connection end to the drumming mechanism, and a side top drum, the drumming mechanism when activated pivotally moves an end of the drumming hand towards and away from the side top drum, the end being opposed from the connection end; and an integrated circuit in communication with the corresponding plurality of switches under the plurality of drumming pads which when activated direct preprogrammed responses from the integrated circuit and the integrated circuit in communication with each drum mechanism controls movement of the drumming hands in response to the preprogrammed responses. 7. The drumming toy of claim 6, wherein each drumming mechanism includes a rod connected at a first end to a rack and pinion gear that is driven by a motor, the motor being controlled by the integrated circuit which when activated moves the rod upwardly and downwardly along the rack, the rod having a second end connected to the connection end of the drumming hand and a compression spring secured to the rack and the side drum housing, the compression spring having a normal bias which keeps the drumming hand positioned away from the side top drum. 8. The drumming toy of claim 7 further comprising a speaker in communication with said integrated circuit such that the integrated circuit directs audio output to the speaker simulating the playing of a drum in accordance to preprogramming. 9. A drumming toy comprising: a center drumming apparatus and a pair of side drumming apparatuses connected thereto; the center drumming apparatus includes movable drumming pads with switches positioned thereunder and which activate when the drumming pads are pressed downwardly; each of the pair of side drumming apparatuses includes a drumming hand movably controlled by a drumming mechanism to move the drumming hand towards a side drum pad; and an integrated circuit in communication with the switches and having a memory portion to record an order in which the switches are activated and the integrated circuit in communication with the drumming mechanisms moves the drumming hands in response to the order in which the switches are activated to simulate a mimic playback of the pressing of the drumming pads. 10. The drumming toy of claim 9, wherein each drumming mechanism includes a rod connected at a first end to a rack and pinion gear that is driven by a motor, the motor being controlled by the integrated circuit which when activated moves the rod upwardly and downwardly along the rack, the rod having a second end connected to a connection end of the drumming hand and a compression spring secured to the rack and the side drum housing, the compression spring having a normal bias which keeps the drumming hand positioned away from the side top drum. 11. The drumming toy of claim 10 further comprising a speaker in communication with said integrated circuit such that the integrated circuit directs audio output to the speaker simulating the playing of a drum in accordance to the activation of the switches and/or the movement of the drumming hands. 