Embodiments of the invention contemplate a method, apparatus and system that are used to support, position, and rotate a substrate during processing. Embodiments of the invention may also include a method of controlling the transfer of heat between a substrate and substrate support positioned in a processing chamber. The apparatus and methods described herein remove the need for complex, costly and often unreliable components that would be required to accurately position and rotate a substrate during one or more processing steps, such as an rapid thermal processing (RTP) process, a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) process, a physical vapor deposition (PVD) process, atomic layer deposition (ALD) process, dry etching process, wet clean, and/or laser annealing process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A processing chamber, comprising: a substrate support comprising a plurality of ports having one or more apertures that each receive a flow of fluid from one or more flow controllers, wherein each of the plurality of ports are adapted to direct the received fluid in a predominant flow direction that is not the same as the predominant flow direction of the other plurality of ports; a sensor that is positioned to monitor the position of a substrate disposed over the substrate support that is disposed within a processing region of the processing chamber; and a controller that is configured to receive a signal from the sensor and is adapted to control the position of the substrate by controlling the flow of the fluid delivered by each of the plurality of ports from the one or more flow controllers; a pump that is adapted to reduce the pressure within the processing region to a pressure less than atmospheric pressure; and the substrate support further comprises an isolation feature that is positioned to substantially prevent the received fluid flow from flowing into the processing region when a substrate is disposed over the substrate support. 2. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein the plurality of ports essentially comprises three ports that are each positioned relative to a center point of the substrate support. 3. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein the radial component of the predominant flow direction delivered by each of the plurality of ports is generally directed away from the center of the substrate that is disposed over the substrate support. 4. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of ports have a predominant flow direction that causes the substrate to rotate about an axis that is generally perpendicular to a processing surface of a substrate. 5. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein the one or more flow controllers are configured to control the velocity of the fluid exiting the one or more apertures to a subsonic speed. 6. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein the one or more flow controllers are configured to control the velocity of the fluid exiting the one or more apertures to a supersonic speed. 7. The processing chamber of claim 1, wherein the substrate support comprises an optically transparent material. 8. A processing chamber, comprising: a plurality of ports that are adapted to each provide a flow of fluid to a surface of a substrate, wherein the plurality of ports comprise: a first port that is adapted to receive the fluid from a first flow controller and direct the fluid in a first direction; a second port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a second flow controller and direct the fluid in a second direction; and a third port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a third flow controller and direct the fluid in a third direction, wherein at least a portion of the flow of fluids from the plurality of ports are adapted to support of the weight of the substrate; a sensor that is positioned to monitor the position of the substrate disposed within a processing region of the processing chamber; and a controller that is configured to receive a signal from the sensor and is adapted to control the position of the substrate by controlling the flow of fluids from the first, second, and third flow controllers. 9. The processing chamber of claim 8, further comprising: a pump that is adapted to reduce the pressure within the processing region to a pressure less than atmospheric pressure; and an isolation feature that circumscribes at least one of the first, second or third ports to substantially prevent the fluid exiting the at least one of the first, second or third ports from flowing into the processing region when a substrate is disposed over the plurality of ports. 10. The processing chamber of claim 8, wherein the radial component of the predominant flow direction delivered by each of the plurality of ports is generally directed away from the center of the substrate that is disposed over the substrate support. 11. The processing chamber of claim 8, wherein at least one of the first, second, or third ports have a predominant flow direction that causes the substrate to rotate about an axis that is generally perpendicular to a processing surface of a substrate. 12. The processing chamber of claim 8, further comprising: a substrate support disposed in the processing region; and an actuator that is adapted to position the first, second, and third ports relative to the substrate support. 13. The processing chamber of claim 8, wherein the plurality of ports further comprise a fourth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a fourth flow controller and direct the fluid in a fourth direction, wherein none of the first, second, third and fourth directions are in the same direction. 14. The processing chamber of claim 13, wherein the component of the first, second, third and fourth directions that are projected on to a plane that is parallel to the surface of the substrate do not pass through a single point contained within the plane. 15. The processing chamber of claim 8, wherein the plurality of ports comprise: the first port that is adapted to receive the fluid from the first flow controller and direct the fluid in the first direction; the second port that is adapted to receive the fluid from the second flow controller and direct the fluid in the second direction; the third port that is adapted to receive a fluid from the third flow controller and direct the fluid in the third direction; a fourth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a fourth flow controller and direct the fluid in a fourth direction, wherein the first, second, third and fourth directions are not in the same direction; a fifth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a fifth flow controller and direct the fluid in a fifth direction; and a sixth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a sixth flow controller and direct the fluid in a sixth direction, wherein the component of the fifth and sixth directions that are projected on to a plane that is generally parallel to the surface of the substrate are substantially parallel. 16. The processing chamber of claim 15, further comprising: a seventh port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a seventh flow controller and direct the fluid in a seventh direction; and a eighth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a eighth flow controller and direct the fluid in a eighth direction, wherein the component of the seventh and eighth directions that are projected on to a plane that is parallel to the surface of the substrate are substantially parallel. 17. The processing chamber of claim 8, wherein the plurality of ports essentially comprise: the first port that is adapted to receive the fluid from the first flow controller and direct the fluid in the first direction; the second port that is adapted to receive the fluid from the second flow controller and direct the fluid in the second direction; the third port that is adapted to receive a fluid from the third flow controller and direct the fluid in the third direction; a fourth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a fourth flow controller and direct the fluid in a fourth direction, wherein the first, second, third and fourth directions are not in the same direction; a fifth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a fifth flow controller and direct the fluid in a fifth direction; a sixth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a sixth flow controller and direct the fluid in a sixth direction; a seventh port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a seventh flow controller and direct the fluid in a seventh direction; and a eighth port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a eighth flow controller and direct the fluid in a eighth direction, wherein the component of the fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth directions that are projected on to a plane that is parallel to the surface of the substrate are perpendicular to at least one radial line drawn from the center of a circular substrate to an edge. 18. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: delivering a flow of a fluid to a plurality of ports, wherein the plurality of ports comprise: a first port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a first flow controller and direct the fluid in a first direction; a second port that is adapted to receive the fluid from a second flow controller and direct the fluid in a second direction; and a third port that is adapted to receive the fluid from a third flow controller and direct the fluid in a third direction, wherein at least a portion of the flow of fluids from the plurality of ports are adapted to support the weight of the substrate; positioning a substrate over the plurality of ports that are disposed in a processing region of a processing chamber; monitoring the position of the edge of the substrate disposed within the processing region by use of sensor; and controlling the position of the substrate by controlling the flow of the fluid delivered from the first, second, and third ports by use of the sensor. 19. The method of claim 18, the radial component of the predominant flow direction delivered by each of the plurality of ports is generally directed away from the center of the substrate that is positioned over the plurality of ports. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the fluid is a gas and the velocity of the flow of fluid from each of the plurality of ports is subsonic. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the fluid is a gas and the velocity of the flow of fluid from at least one of the plurality of ports is supersonic. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the fluid is a gas selected from the group consisting of helium, hydrogen, nitrogen, and argon. 23. The method of claim 18, further comprising: forming the plurality of ports in a substrate support; forming a feature in the substrate support that circumscribes at least one of the plurality of ports; and evacuating a region within the feature to minimize the amount of the fluid flowing into the processing region from the at least one of the plurality of ports. 24. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: positioning a substrate in a processing region of a processing chamber, wherein the substrate has a plurality of semiconductor devices formed on a processing surface of the substrate; delivering a flow of a fluid to three or more ports, wherein the three or more ports comprise: a first port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a first flow controller and direct the fluid in a first direction; a second port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a second flow controller and direct the fluid in a second direction; and a third port that is adapted to receive a fluid from a third flow controller and direct the fluid in a third direction, wherein at least a portion of the flow of fluids from the three or more ports are adapted to support the weight of the substrate and none of the three or more ports are adapted to direct the fluid in the same direction; receiving the substrate on the three or more ports; monitoring the position of the edge of the substrate disposed within the processing region by use of sensor; and controlling the position of the edge of the substrate by controlling the flow of the fluid delivered from the first, second, and third ports and a signal received from the sensor. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising positioning the substrate in the processing region by moving the three or more ports in a direction that is substantially perpendicular to the processing surface. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the radial component of the predominant flow direction delivered by each of the three or more ports is generally directed away from the center of the substrate that is disposed over the substrate support. 27. The method of claim 24, wherein the three or more ports comprise no more than eight ports. 28. The method of claim 24, further comprising: forming the three or more ports in a substrate support; forming a feature in the substrate support that circumscribes at least one of the plurality of ports; and evacuating a region within the feature to minimize the amount of the fluid flowing into the processing region from the at least one of the plurality of ports. 29. The method of claim 24, wherein the three or more ports can be moved relative to a substrate supporting surface which is disposed in the processing region. 30. The method of claim 25, wherein the three or more ports can be moved relative to a substrate supporting surface which is disposed in the processing region. 