A roller pad printer for printing on an associated object includes a frame, a flat cliche operably mounted to the frame for receiving and a resilient roller pad operably mount to the frame for rolling contact, at a first location and in a first direction along the cliche, to receive ink transferred from the cliche. The roller pad is adapted for rolling contact with the object, at a second location and in a second direction, to transfer the ink from the roller pad to the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A roller pad printer for printing on an associated object, comprising: a frame; a flat cliche operably mounted to the frame, the cliche adapted to receive ink thereon; a resilient roller pad operably mounted to the frame for rolling contact, at a first location and in a first direction along the cliche, to receive ink transferred from the cliche, the roller pad adapted for rolling contact with the object, at a second location and in a second direction to transfer the ink from the roller pad to the object, wherein the first and second directions are parallel to one another, and wherein the first and second locations are different and spaced apart from one another in a third direction that is different than the first and second directions. 2. The roller pad printer in accordance with claim 1 including an ink supply. 3. The roller pad printer in accordance with claim 2 wherein the ink supply includes an ink cup. 4. The roller pad printer in accordance with claim 3 wherein the ink cup includes a wiper blade. 5. The roller pad printer in accordance with claim 1 including a carriage roll assembly configured to laterally move the roller pad between the first and second locations, between the cliche and the object. 6. The roller pad printer in accordance with claim 1 including a motor operably connected to the roller pad to rotate the roller pad and control an angular position of the roller pad relative to the cliche or the object. 7. The roller pad printer in accordance with claim 1 wherein the roller pad is an idler roller. 8. A device for transferring print onto an associated object, comprising: a frame; an arm operably mounted to the frame; a flat cliche operably mounted to the frame, the cliche adapted to receive ink thereon; a resilient roller pad operably mounted to the arm and movable relative to the cliche for rolling contact, at a first location and in a first direction along the cliche, to receive ink transferred from the cliche, the roller pad adapted for rolling contact with the object, at a second location and in a second direction to transfer the ink from the roller pad to the object, wherein the first and second directions are parallel to one another, and wherein the first and second locations are different and spaced apart from one another in a third direction that is different than the first and second directions. 9. The device for transferring print in accordance with claim 8 including an ink supply having an ink cup. 10. The device for transferring print in accordance with claim 8 including a carriage roll assembly configured as part of the arm, the carriage roll assembly configured to laterally move the roller pad between the first and second locations, between the cliche and the object. 11. The device for transferring print in accordance with claim 8 including a motor operably connected to the roller pad to rotate the roller pad and control an angular position of the roller pad relative to the cliche or the object. 12. A method for printing an area on an object, the method comprising the steps of: inking a flat cliche; engaging a roller pad and the flat cliche against one another; moving linearly in an inking direction, at a first location, at least one of the roller pad and the cliche relative to the other such that at least a portion of the ink is transferred from the cliche to the roller pad; moving the roller pad transversely to the inking direction to a second location for engaging the object at the area to be printed; moving linearly, in a printing direction, at least one of the roller pad and the object relative to the other, the printing direction being parallel to the inking direction; and transferring at least a portion of the ink from the roller pad onto the object to be printed to print the area, wherein the first and second locations are spaced apart from one another in a third direction that is different than the first and second directions. 13. The method of printing in accordance with claim 12 including the step of moving an ink cup over the cliche to deposit ink on the cliche. 14. The method of printing in accordance with claim 12 including the step of indexing the roller pad to control an angular position of the roller pad relative to the cliche. 15. The method of printing in accordance with claim 12 including the step of monitoring the position of the roller pad to control the location of the roller pad relative to an etched portion in the cliche and a location of the roller pad relative to the area to be printed. 16. The method of printing in accordance with claim 12 including the step of returning the roller pad to an initial position after transfer of the at least a portion of the ink from the roller pad to the object. 