Provided herein are compositions and methods of detecting Bcl-B expression in cancer cells to prognose, monitor, or select therapies for cancers such as breast cancer, prostate cancer, lung cancer, or gastric cancer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of selecting a therapy for treating a subject with breast cancer or prostate cancer, comprising examining the expression of Bcl-B in one or more cells of said cancer, wherein a higher amount of Bcl-B expression in the cancer cells or a higher number or percentage of cancer cells with detectable Bcl-B expression as compared to that of non-metastatic reference cells indicates that the selected treatment is adjuvant chemotherapy or hormonal therapy, wherein a lower or equivalent amount of Bcl-B expression in the cancer cells or a lower or equivalent number or percentage of cancer cells with detectable Bcl-B expression as compared to that of non-metastatic reference cells indicates that the selected treatment is surgery, local therapy, or a combination thereof. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference cells comprise healthy cells from the same tissue of the subject as the cancer cells. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference cells comprise non-cancerous cells of same tissue from the subject. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference cells comprise non-cancerous cells of same tissue from one or more unrelated individuals. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference cells comprise non-cancerous cells from the same tissue of the subject as the cancer cells. 6. A method of selecting a therapy for treating a subject with lung cancer, comprising examining the expression of Bcl-B in one or more cells of said cancer, wherein a higher amount of Bcl-B expression in the cancer cells or a higher number or percentage of cancer cells with detectable Bcl-B expression as compared to that of non-metastatic reference cells indicates that the selected treatment is aggressive chemotherapy, investigational drugs, or a combination thereof. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the reference cells comprise healthy cells from the same tissue of the subject as the cancer cells. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the reference cells comprise non-cancerous cells of same tissue from the subject. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the reference cells comprise non-cancerous cells of same tissue from one or more unrelated individuals. 