An ultrasonic clamp coagulator assembly that is configured to permit selective cutting, coagulation and clamping of tissue during surgical procedures. An elongated portion of the instrument can be configured for endoscopic applications and has an outside diameter of less than 6 mm. The construction includes a clamping mechanism, including a clamp arm pivotally mounted at the distal portion of the instrument, which is specifically configured to create a desired level of tissue clamping forces, exceeding 4 pounds when the trigger is fully closed. The clamping mechanism includes a two-piece pad design and pad material that enables the higher tissue clamping forces and a force-limiting mechanism that effectively smoothes out abusive tissue forces. The assembly also features hand activation configured to provide an ergonomical grip and operation for the surgeon. Hand switches are placed in the range of the natural swing of the surgeon's thumb, whether gripping the surgical instrument right-handed or left handed.
Claims We claim: 1. An ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising: a housing comprising an actuator; an outer tube having a proximal end joined to the housing, and a distal end; an actuator element reciprocably positioned within the outer tube and operatively connected to the actuator; an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end defining a longitudinal axis and further positioned within the outer tube; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a first tissue pad and a second tissue pad; and a clamp member connected to the distal end of the outer tube and having a clamp arm having a distal end and a proximal end, a first slot positioned at the clamp arm distal end that defines a first cross-sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, and a second slot positioned at the clamp arm proximal end that defines a second cross-sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, and the first slot configured for engaging the first tissue pad and the second slot configured for engaging the second tissue pad and wherein the first cross-sectional shape is different than the second cross-sectional shape. 2. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein the clamp arm further comprises a pair of apertures for receiving a pivot rod pivotally mounted adjacent the distal end of the outer tube, and a pair of pivot studs for operatively engaging the actuator element. 3. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein the pivot rod is welded to the clamp arm. 4. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 1, wherein the height of the proximal end of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot is about 105% to about 120% greater than the height of the distal end of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot. 5. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 1, wherein the height of the proximal end of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot is about 108% to about 113% greater than the height of the distal end of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot. 6. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 1, wherein the height of the proximal end of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot is about 110% greater than the height of the distal end of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot. 7. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 1, wherein the clamp arm further comprises a stop element. 8. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus of claim 1 wherein the height of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot is less than the height of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot. 9. An ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising: a housing; an outer tube having a proximal end joined to the housing, and a distal end; an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end defining a longitudinal axis and further positioned within the outer tube; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a first tissue pad and a second tissue pad; and a clamp member connected to the distal end of the outer tube and having a clamp arm having a distal end and a proximal end, a first slot positioned at the clamp arm distal end that defines a first cross-sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, and a second slot positioned at the clamp arm proximal end that defines a second cross-sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, the first slot configured for engaging the first tissue pad and the second slot configured for engaging the second tissue pad, and wherein the first cross-sectional shape is different than the second cross-sectional shape. 10. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 9, wherein the clamp arm further comprises a pair of apertures for receiving a pivot rod pivotally mounted adjacent the distal end of the outer tube, and a pair of drive pins for operatively engaging the actuator element. 11. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus in accordance with claim 10, wherein the pivot rod is welded to the clamp arm. 12. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 9, wherein the height of the proximal end of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot is about 105% to about 120% greater than the height of the distal end of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot. 13. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 9, wherein the height of the proximal end of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot is about 108% to about 113% greater than the height of the distal end of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot. 14. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator in accordance with claim 9, wherein the height of the proximal end of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot is about 110% greater than the height of the distal end of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot. 15. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus of claim 9 wherein the height of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot is less than the height of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot. 16. An ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus comprising: a housing; an outer tube having a proximal end joined to the housing, and a distal end; an ultrasonic waveguide having a proximal end and a distal end defining a longitudinal axis and further positioned within the outer tube; an ultrasonically actuated blade attached to the distal end of the waveguide; a clamp member connected to the distal end of the outer tube and having a clamp arm having a distal end a first slot positioned at the clamp arm distal end that defines a first cross-sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, and a second slot positioned at the clamp arm proximal end that defines a second cross-sectional shape in a direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, wherein the first cross-sectional shape is different than the second cross-sectional shape. 17. The ultrasonic clamp coagulator apparatus of claim 16 wherein the height of the clamp arm at a location of the first slot is less than the height of the clamp arm at a location of the second slot. 