Scalable storage can be achieved with linear array storage of wafers, comprising two linear arrays of storage compartments on opposite walls, with a middle transfer mechanism. Together with a buffer station for automatic material handling system, a scalable bare wafer stocker can provide flexible and uninterrupted services to a fabrication facility.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A bare substrate stocker interfacing an automatic transport, the bare substrate stocker comprising: a stocker storage for storing bare substrates, the stocker storage comprising: a housing defining a storage area, the housing comprising two substantially parallel and opposite side walls; a plurality of compartments forming one layer depth of substrate storage on each of the side walls; and a storage robotic mechanism disposed between the layers of the compartments, the robotic mechanism comprising at least a linear guide along one side of the side walls for reaching the compartments disposed in the side walls, the storage robotic mechanism further comprising a substrate handler to access the substrates stored in the compartments; a stocker loading station adapted for receiving a container containing substrates, the substrates disposed in a substantially horizontal configuration; a drop station interfacing the stocker loading station and the stocker storage, wherein the drop station is adapted to allow the substrate to be picked up at the bottom and at the edge; a robotic mechanism interfacing the stocker loading station for transferring substrates between the container and the drop station; wherein the substrate handler of the storage robotic mechanism is adapted to access the substrate in the drop station, and wherein the substrates are stored in a vertical configuration in the stocker storage; a transport buffer comprising: one or more buffer stations for storing one or more containers containing substrates; and a buffer loading station adapted for holding a container; a buffer transfer mechanism to transfer a container between the buffer loading station and the buffer stations; and an interface mechanism adapted for transferring a container between the stocker loading station and the transport buffer. 2. A stocker as in claim 1 further comprising a MLP (Mobile Launch Platform) to transfer container to and from the buffer loading station. 3. A stocker as in claim 2 further comprising a MLP transfer mechanism to transfer containers between the MLP and the stocker loading station. 4. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the substrates are stored a pitch less than 2.5 mm. 5. A stocker as in claim 1 further comprising a controller to determine needed substrates to containers to be stored in the buffer stations. 6. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the interface mechanism comprises a transfer mechanism to transfer containers between the stocker loading station and the buffer loading station. 7. A stocker as in claim 1 further comprising a mechanism to transfer containers between the buffer loading station and the automatic transport. 8. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the buffer stations are disposed on top of the stocker storage. 9. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the buffer stations are arranged in a two-row buffer station array with a linear container transfer mechanism in the middle. 10. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the transport buffer comprises a plurality of buffer loading stations interfacing with one or more automatic transports. 