Methods and apparatus for processing substrates using a multi-chamber processing system (e.g., a cluster tool) that has an increased system throughput and repeatable wafer processing history are provided. In one embodiment a first substrate is transferred from a first position to a second position and then the first substrate is transferred from the second position to a third position using a first robot. A second substrate is transferred from a first position to a second position and then the second substrate is transferred from the second position to a third position using a second robot. The movement of the first and second robots is synchronized so that the movement from the first position to the second position by the first and second robot is performed within a first time interval.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of transferring a substrate one or more substrates in a cluster tool, comprising: providing a cluster tool comprising: a first processing rack containing vertical stacks of substrate processing chambers; a second processing rack containing vertical stacks of substrate processing chambers; a first robot assembly disposed adjacent to the first processing rack, comprising: at least one horizontal motion assembly; a vertical motion assembly; a robot hardware assembly; and a robot blade coupled with the robot hardware assembly, wherein the first robot assembly is adapted to transfer a substrate between the substrate processing chambers in the first processing rack; a second robot assembly disposed adjacent to the first robot assembly between the first processing rack and the second processing rack, comprising: at least one horizontal motion assembly; a vertical motion assembly; a robot hardware assembly; and a robot blade coupled with the robot hardware assembly, wherein the second robot assembly is adapted to transfer a substrate between the substrate processing chambers in the first processing rack and/or the second processing rack; and wherein a side of the first processing rack and a side of the second processing rack are both aligned along a direction parallel to the horizontal motion assemblies of the first and second robot assemblies; and transferring a first substrate using the first robot assembly, wherein transferring the first substrate comprises: removing the first substrate from a first processing chamber positioned in the side of the first processing rack; moving the first robot assembly from a position adjacent to the first processing chamber to a position adjacent to a second processing chamber positioned in the side of the first processing rack; and placing the first substrate in the second processing chamber; transferring a second substrate using a second robot assembly, wherein transferring the second substrate comprises: removing the second substrate from a third processing chamber positioned in either the side of the first processing rack or the side of the second processing rack: moving the second robot assembly from a position adjacent to the third processing chamber to a position adjacent to a fourth processing chamber positioned in either the side of the first processing rack or the side of the second processing rack; and placing the second substrate in the fourth processing chamber; and synchronizing the removing the first substrate with the removing the second substrate, the moving the second robot assembly, or the placing the second substrate; and synchronizing the placing the first substrate with the removing the second substrate, the moving the second substrate, or the placing the second substrate, wherein the transferring the first substrate and transferring the second substrate are completed within a first period of time. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the length of the first period of time is defined by the slower of the transferring the first substrate and the transferring the second substrate. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth processing chambers are selected from a group consisting of a coater chamber, a developer chamber, a HMDS process chamber, a chill chamber, and a bake chamber. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the cluster tool further comprises: a third robot assembly disposed adjacent to the second processing rack, comprising: at least one horizontal motion assembly; a vertical motion assembly; a robot hardware assembly; and a robot blade coupled with the robot hardware assembly, wherein the third robot assembly is adapted to transfer a substrate among the substrate processing chambers in the second processing rack within the first period of time. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: transferring a third substrate using the third robot assembly, wherein transferring the third substrate comprises: removing the third substrate from a fifth processing chamber positioned in the second processing rack; moving the third robot assembly from a position adjacent to the fifth processing chamber to a position adjacent to a sixth processing chamber positioned in either the second processing rack; and placing the third substrate in a sixth processing chamber, wherein transferring the third substrate is completed during the first period of time. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: synchronizing the removing the first substrate with the removing the third substrate, the moving the third robot assembly, or the placing the third substrate. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the substrate processing chambers are each individually selected from one of the following: a coater chamber, a developer chamber, a HMDS chamber, a chill chamber, or a bake chamber. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the first robot assembly and the second robot assembly overlap with one another and the second robot assembly and the third robot assembly overlap with one another. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the overlap is the ability of two or more robots to access and/or independently transfer substrates between the same processing chambers in the same processing rack. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the overlapping robot assemblies are able to simultaneously access processing chambers that are horizontally adjacent (x-direction) or vertically adjacent (y-direction) to each other in the same processing rack. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising depositing one or more uniform resist layers on the surface of the first substrate. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: transferring the first substrate out of the cluster tool to a separate stepper or scanner tool; patterning the substrate surface by exposing the resist layer to a resist modifying electromagnetic radiation; and developing the patterned resist layer. 13. A cluster tool for processing one or more substrates, comprising: a first processing rack containing vertical stacks of substrate processing chambers; a second processing rack containing vertical stacks of substrate processing chambers; a first robot assembly disposed adjacent to the first processing rack, comprising: at least one horizontal motion assembly; a vertical motion assembly; a robot hardware assembly; and a robot blade coupled with the robot hardware assembly, wherein the first robot assembly is adapted to transfer a substrate between the substrate processing chambers in the first processing rack; a second robot assembly disposed adjacent to the first robot assembly between the first processing rack and the second processing rack, comprising: at least one horizontal motion assembly; a vertical motion assembly; a robot hardware assembly; and a robot blade coupled with the robot hardware assembly, wherein the second robot assembly is adapted to transfer a substrate between the substrate processing chambers in the first processing rack and/or the second processing rack; and wherein a side of the first processing rack and a side of the second processing rack are both aligned along a direction parallel to the horizontal motion assemblies of the first and second robot assemblies; and a controller configured for: defining a process sequence containing a plurality of substrate transfer steps, wherein the plurality of substrate transfer steps are adapted to aid in the movement of one or more substrates through the substrate processing chambers contained in the cluster tool; distributing at least one of the substrate transfer steps contained in the process sequence to the first robot assembly and at least one of the substrate transfer steps contained in the process sequence to the second robot assembly; synchronizing the movement of the first robot assembly and the second robot assembly so that each substrate transfer step performed by the first robot assembly and each of the substrate transfer steps performed by the second robot assembly that overlap in time both are performed within a first time interval, wherein the next substrate transfer step performed by the first robot assembly and the second robot assembly will not start until the after the first time interval is completed and the next substrate transfer step is performed within a second time interval; and executing the transfer steps. 14. The cluster tool of claim 13, wherein the substrate processing chambers are each selected from one of the following: a coater chamber, a developer chamber, a HMDS chamber, a chill chamber, or a bake chamber. 15. The cluster tool of claim 13, further comprising: a third robot assembly disposed adjacent to the second processing rack, comprising: at least one horizontal motion assembly; a vertical motion assembly; a robot hardware assembly, and a robot blade coupled with the robot hardware assembly, wherein the third robot assembly is adapted to transfer a substrate among the substrate processing chambers in the second processing rack within the first time interval. 16. The cluster tool of claim 15, wherein the first robot assembly and the second robot assembly overlap with one another and the second robot assembly and the third robot assembly overlap with one another. 17. The cluster tool of claim 16, wherein the overlap is the ability of two or more robots to access and/or independently transfer substrates between the same processing chambers in the same processing rack. 18. The cluster tool of claim 16, wherein the overlapping robot assemblies are able to simultaneously access processing chambers that are horizontally adjacent (x-direction) or vertically adjacent (y-direction) to each other in the same processing rack. 