The invention relates to a device for superimposing known patterns, characteristic of a region, on (real) images of said region. The device comprises, a memory in which patterns are stored, which are representative of a selected region, of known position and orientation with relation to a common reference and processing means, for determining a pattern representative of the selected portion in the memory, on receipt of the designation of at least one portion of an observed image of the selected region, taken at a selected angle and at least one representative attribute of said region, taking account of the attribute selected, then superimposing the determined pattern on the selected portion of the image taking account of the selected angle.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a memory storing predetermined data corresponding to at least one object, such predetermined data comprising an identity of the corresponding object; and a processor configured to: receive an image of a viewed object taken at an angle; accept input from a user, said input comprising a designation of a portion of the image corresponding to the viewed object, and a designation of an identity of the viewed object; register the predetermined data corresponding to the object having the designated identity on the image; and overlay a visual representation of the data on the image based on the angle. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, the image being received from an endoscope. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, the apparatus further comprising a robotic arm maneuverable within a field of view of the endoscope. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, the processor configured to register the predetermined data on the image through external registration. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, the external registration comprising successively positioning the robotic arm at predetermined locations to align a reference frame of the predetermined data with a reference frame of the image. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, the processor further configured to determine control instructions to move the robotic arm to the vicinity of the designated portion of the image. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, the predetermined data comprising a three-dimensional model representing the corresponding object. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, the designation of the portion of the image comprising selecting a portion of the image with a mouse. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, the designation of the identity comprising issuing a voice command. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, the designation of the identity comprising selection from a list displayed on a screen. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, the processor configured to register the predetermined data by minimizing a criterion constructed from at least one measurement equation. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, at least one measurement equation derived from a hypothesis associated with the viewed object. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, said input comprising designating multiple portions of the image, and designating corresponding identities of viewed objects in the multiple portions. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor configured to register the predetermined data by multiple successive registrations of the multiple designated portions. 15. apparatus of claim 1, the processor configured to register the predetermined data through affine registration. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, the visual representation of the data comprising a three-dimensional model of the viewed object. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, the predetermined data comprising patterns derived from digital recordings. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, the image being received from a camera mounted on a moving vehicle. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, the identity of the viewed object comprising at least one attribute describing a known local characteristic or the viewed object. 