An apparatus is configured with one or more sensors arranged to detect a first shape-related parameter, one or more control elements arranged to provide a force, and circuitry operably connected to the one or more sensors and the one or more control elements to determine the force provided to the one or more control elements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a garment including: a fabric; one or more sensors, the one or more sensors being arranged to detect a first shape-related parameter of the fabric and responsive to the detected first shape-related parameter to produce a first signal; and one or more control elements responsive to a second signal different from the first signal, the one or more control elements being arranged to provide a force on the fabric corresponding to the second signal; and circuitry responsive to the first signal to determine an initial shape of the fabric, to determine a first change in the fabric shape according to a difference between the initial shape of the fabric and a first target shape, and to produce the second signal according to the first determined change in the fabric shape. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the one or more control elements includes at least one of an electroactive polymer or a mechanical metamaterial. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the one or more sensors includes at least one of an electroactive polymer, a conductive fiber, an optical fiber, a camera, a shape sensor, a position sensor, or a separation sensor. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein at least one of the one or more sensors is configured to respond to at least one of a reflector, a beacon, or an RFID. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the circuitry is further responsive to a third signal, different from the first signal and the second signal, to determine the first change in the fabric shape. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a physiological sensor, wherein the physiological sensor is configured to produce the third signal. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first shape-related parameter of the fabric corresponds to a first time interval, and wherein the one or more sensors is further arranged to detect a second shape-related parameter of the fabric corresponding to a second time interval, different from the first time interval, and wherein the one or more sensors is further responsive to the detected second shape-related parameter to produce the third signal. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first shape-related parameter includes at least one of a force, a stress, a pressure, a strain, a bend, a twist, a deformation, a geometry, a surface topology, an orientation, a reflection, or a position of one or more portions of the garment. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the one or more control elements is arranged to provide a force between a first region of the fabric and a second region, different from the first region, of the fabric. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fabric includes at least one fiber, and wherein the force on the fabric includes a force on the fiber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the force on the fiber includes at least one of a longitudinal stretching force, a lateral force, a bending moment, a bending force, or a torque. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the one or more sensors is arranged to detect a change in electrical impedance in response to the detected first shape-related parameter. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the one or more sensors is arranged to detect a change in mechanical impedance in response to the detected first shape-related parameter. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors is responsive to the detected first shape-related parameter to produce the first signal, the first signal being indicative of a location of at least one of a detected force, a detected stress, a detected strain, or a detected deformation. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors is responsive to the detected first shape-related parameter to produce the first signal, the first signal being indicative of a magnitude of at least one of a detected force, a detected stress, or a detected strain. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors is responsive to the detected first shape-related parameter to produce the first signal, the first signal being indicative of a direction of at least one of a detected force, a detected stress, or a detected strain. 17. An apparatus comprising: a fabric having a first topology at a first time and including: one or more sensors, the one or more sensors being arranged to detect a first shape-related parameter of the fabric and responsive to the detected first shape-related parameter to produce a first signal; and one or more control elements responsive to a second signal different from the first signal, the one or more control elements being arranged to provide a force on the fabric corresponding to the second signal; and circuitry responsive to the first signal to determine a second topology of the fabric, to determine a second signal selected to produce the second topology at a second time different from the first time, and to produce the second signal. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the fabric forms at least a portion of a garment. 19. In an apparatus comprising a garment coupled to electronic circuitry, a method comprising: sensing a first shape-related parameter, the first shape-related parameter corresponding to a first region of fabric; producing data corresponding to an initial shape of the first region of fabric according to the sensed first shape-related parameter; responsive to the produced data corresponding to the initial shape, selecting a target shape of the first region of fabric and producing a first fabric shape changing signal, the first fabric shape changing signal being selected to produce the target shape of the second region of fabric; and applying force to a second region of fabric according to the first fabric shape changing signal to produce the target shape. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the first region of fabric forms at least a portion of a garment. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein producing the first fabric shape changing signal is further responsive to a stored first shape-related parameter different from the sensed first shape-related parameter. 22. The method of claim 19 further comprising: dynamically varying the force applied to the second region of fabric according to the first fabric shape changing signal. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein sensing a first shape-related parameter includes: measuring at least one of a voltage, a change in reflectivity, a change in electrical impedance, or a change in optical properties. 