A dry-in/dry-out system is disclosed for wafer electroless plating. The system includes an upper zone for wafer ingress/egress and drying operations. Proximity heads are provided in the upper zone to perform the drying operations. The system also includes a lower zone for electroless plating operations. The lower zone includes an electroless plating apparatus that implements a wafer submersion by fluid upwelling method. The upper and lower zones of the system are enclosed by a dual-walled chamber, wherein the inner wall is a chemically inert plastic and the outer wall is a structural metal. The system interfaces with a fluid handling system which provides the necessary chemistry supply and control for the system. The system is ambient controlled. Also, the system interfaces with an ambient controlled managed transfer module (MTM).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system, comprising: a chamber equipped to, receive a wafer in a dry state from an interfacing module, perform an electroless plating process on the wafer within the chamber, perform a drying process on the wafer within the chamber, and provide the wafer in a dry state to the interfacing module, wherein the chamber is defined to perform the electroless plating process and the drying process within a common internal volume of the chamber, wherein the chamber includes a platen defined to support the wafer during the electroless plating process, and wherein the chamber further includes a platen lift assembly for moving the platen from an upper region of the common internal volume of the chamber where the wafer is to be received from and provided to the interfacing module and subjected to the drying process, to the lower region of the common internal volume of the chamber where the wafer is to be subjected to the electroless plating process, and wherein the chamber includes a drive roller assembly and a stabilizer assembly defined to work together to support the wafer in a substantially horizontal orientation in an upper region of the common internal volume of the chamber upon receipt of the wafer from the interfacing module, during the drying process, and for provision of the wafer to the interfacing module, wherein both the drive roller assembly and the stabilizer assembly are defined separate from both the platen and the platen lift assembly. 2. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the chamber includes an inner liner and outer structural walls, the inner liner configured to be inserted within a volume defined by the outer structural walls and in a partially spaced apart relationship with the outer structural walls. 3. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 2, wherein the inner liner is formed from a chemically inert material and the outer structural walls are formed of a structural material capable of maintaining a vacuum boundary. 4. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the chamber is defined to control an ambient condition within the common internal volume of the chamber. 5. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the drive roller assembly includes a drive roller defined to engage an edge of the wafer and rotate the wafer when the wafer is present in the upper region of the common internal volume of the chamber, and wherein the stabilizer assembly includes a stabilizer roller defined to engage the edge of the wafer and apply pressure to the edge of the wafer so as to hold the edge of the wafer in the drive roller. 6. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the drive roller assembly and the stabilizer assembly are defined to rotate the wafer while maintaining the wafer in the substantially horizontal orientation in the upper region of the common internal volume of the chamber. 7. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the chamber includes a fluid bowl disposed in the lower region of the common internal volume of the chamber, the fluid bowl defined to receive the wafer in a substantially horizontal orientation within an interior volume of the fluid bowl and contain an electroless plating solution when the electroless plating solution is flowed into the fluid bowl so as to cover a top surface of the wafer. 8. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, wherein the chamber includes an upper proximity head and a lower proximity head that are each defined to traverse the wafer when present in the upper region of the common internal volume of the chamber, the upper and lower proximity heads defined to perform the drying process on the wafer. 9. A semiconductor wafer electroless plating system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a fluid handling system equipped to support the electroless plating process and the drying process within the common internal volume of the chamber. 10. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating, comprising: a first wafer processing zone defined within an upper region of an internal volume of the chamber, the first wafer processing zone including an upper proximity head defined to perform a drying process on an upper surface of the wafer and a lower proximity head defined to perform a drying process on the lower surface of the wafer when the wafer is disposed within the first wafer processing zone; a second wafer processing zone defined within a lower region of the internal volume of the chamber, the second wafer processing zone equipped to perform an electroless plating process on the wafer when disposed within the second wafer processing zone; and a platen defined to support the wafer within the second wafer processing zone and provide transport of the wafer between each of the first and second wafer processing zones. 11. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 10, wherein the first wafer processing zone includes a drive roller assembly and a stabilizer roller assembly defined to engage and support the wafer in a substantially horizontal orientation and provide wafer rotational capability. 12. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 11, wherein each of the upper proximity head and the lower proximity head is defined to traverse the wafer when engaged by the drive roller assembly and the stablilzer roller assembly, wherein each of the upper and lower proximity heads is defined to perform the drying process on the wafer through application of a respective dynamic liquid meniscus to the wafer. 13. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 10, wherein the first wafer processing zone includes a chamber entry door through which the wafer is to be received into the chamber and provided from the chamber. 14. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 10, wherein the second wafer processing zone includes a fluid bowl defined to receive the platen in a substantially horizontal orientation within an interior volume of the fluid bowl and contain an electroless plating solution when the electroless plating solution is flowed into the fluid bowl so as to cover the platen an a top surface of the wafer when present on the platen. 15. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 10, wherein the second wafer processing zone includes one or more rinse nozzles defined to direct a rinsing fluid toward a top surface of the platen so as to remove electroless plating solution from the top surface of the wafer when present on the platen. 16. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 10, wherein the platen is defined to be heated in a controlled manner so as to enable control of a temperature of the wafer when present on the platen. 17. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 10, wherein the platen includes a number of vacuum channels fluidly connected to a vacuum supply to enable a vacuum chucking of the wafer to the platen when the wafer is present on the platen. 18. A chamber for semiconductor wafer electroless plating as recited in claim 10, wherein the chamber is defined by outer structural walls and an inner liner, the inner liner configured to be inserted within the outer structural walls so as to form the internal volume of the chamber, wherein the outer structural walls are formed of a structural material capable of maintaining a vacuum boundary, and the inner liner is formed from a chemically inert material. 