A surgical instrument is inserted through a guide tube. The surgical instrument exits at an intermediate position of the guide tube and is oriented to be substantially parallel to the guide tube's longitudinal axis as it exits. A stereoscopic image capture component is on the guide tube between the intermediate position and the guide tube's distal end. The image capture component's field of view is generally perpendicular to the guide tube's longitudinal axis. The guide tube is jointed to allow the image capture component to be moved. The surgical instruments and the guide tube are telemanipulatively controlled.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical instrument assembly comprising: a guide tube comprising a proximal end, a distal end, and an intermediate position between the proximal and distal ends, wherein a longitudinal axis extends between the proximal and distal ends; a surgical instrument comprising a proximal body segment having a longitudinal axis, a parallel motion mechanism coupled to the proximal body segment, and a distal end coupled to the parallel motion mechanism, wherein the surgical instrument passes through the guide tube, wherein a part of the surgical instrument exits and extends out of the guide tube at the intermediate position, wherein the part of the surgical instrument extends out generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube at the intermediate position, wherein the part of the surgical instrument that extends out of the guide tube includes at least a distal end of the proximal body segment, the parallel motion mechanism, and the distal end of the surgical instrument, wherein the parallel motion mechanism comprises a first joint connected to the distal end of the proximal body segment, an elongate rigid distal body segment connected to the first joint, and a second joint connected to the elongate rigid distal body segment and to the distal end of the surgical instrument, wherein a first tendon is connected between a proximal portion of the first joint and a distal portion of the second joint, a second tendon is connected between the proximal portion of the first joint and the distal portion of the second joint, and the first and second tendons pass through the elongate rigid distal body segment, and wherein the parallel motion mechanism heaves and sways the distal end of the surgical instrument with reference to the longitudinal axis of the proximal body segment without changing pitch and yaw of the distal end of the surgical instrument; and a stereoscopic image capture component positioned on the guide tube between the intermediate position and the distal end of the guide tube, wherein a field of view of the image capture component is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube near the image capture component. 2. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the guide tube comprises a joint that allows the image capture component to move while the intermediate position remains stationary. 3. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the part of the surgical instrument that extends out of the guide tube comprises a plurality of rigid links. 4. The assembly of claim 1: wherein the image capture component comprises a first imaging port, a second imaging port, and an interpupillary axis between the first and second imaging ports; and wherein the interpupillary axis is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube near the image capture component. 5. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a second surgical instrument, wherein the second surgical instrument passes through the guide tube, and wherein the second surgical instrument exits the guide tube at the intermediate position substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube at the intermediate position. 6. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a second surgical instrument nonremovably coupled to the guide tube at the intermediate position. 7. The assembly of claim 6: wherein the second surgical instrument comprises a parallel motion mechanism; and wherein the parallel motion mechanism of the second surgical instrument heaves and sways a distal end of the second surgical instrument without changing pitch and yaw of the distal end of the second surgical instrument. 8. The assembly of claim 6: wherein the second surgical instrument comprises a plurality of rigid links. 9. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a second image capture component positioned on the guide tube; wherein a field of view of the second image capture component is generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube. 10. The assembly of claim 1: wherein said first joint comprises a first hinge; wherein said second joint comprises a second hinge; and wherein the first and second hinges are coupled so that as the first hinge pivots in a first direction, the second hinge pivots in a second direction opposite the first direction. 11. The assembly of claim 10 further comprising: a third tendon coupled between a transmission mechanism and a position between the first and second hinges. 