Disclosed herein is a method of constructing an environmental map using sonar sensors. The method includes the steps of checking whether conflict cells have occurred using input sonar sensor data; if conflict cells have occurred, selecting incorrect data and eliminating the conflict cells using sound pressure comparison until the conflict cells do not occur any longer; and once the elimination has completed, preparing a grid map using a Maximum Approximated Likelihood (MAL) approach. Inconsistency in data occurs when multiple pieces of sensor data overlap each other, the conflict cells are cells that experience inconsistency over an entire arc region, and candidates for the incorrect sonar sensor data are obtained when the conflict cells occur.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of constructing an environmental map by a robot using sonar sensors, the method comprising: checking by the robot whether conflict cells have occurred using input sonar sensor data from the sonar sensors; if conflict cells have occurred, the robot selecting incorrect data and eliminating the conflict cells using sound pressure comparison until the conflict cells do not occur any longer; and once the elimination has completed, the robot preparing a grid map using a Maximum Approximated Likelihood (MAL) approach. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein inconsistency in data occurs when multiple pieces of sensor data overlap each other, the conflict cells are cells that contain inconsistency over an entire arc region, and candidates for the incorrect sonar sensor data are obtained when the conflict cells occur. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein the sound pressure comparison is adapted to extract only correct data from among candidates for the incorrect data using relative intensity of sound waves that are detected by the sonar sensors when sound waves emitted from the sonar sensors collide with an obstacle and then return and that is defined by the following equation: .function..theta..times..times..function..times..times..function..theta..- times..function..theta..times..times..function..theta..function..theta. ##EQU00023## where SP.sub.R(r,.theta.) is the final detected sound pressure, r is the distance from the sensor to the obstacle, .theta. is the angle from the heading of the sensor, D.sub.T(.theta.) is the transmitting directivity, D.sub.R(.theta.) is the receiving directivity, and c.sub.2 and c.sub.3 are unknown constants. 4. The method as set forth in claim 3, wherein the relative intensity of the sound waves is obtained considering directional characteristics of the specific sonar sensors. 5. The method as set forth in claim 3, wherein the sound pressure comparison can determine presence of an obstacle by comparing sound pressure of sensor data containing information about presence of an obstacle with sound pressure of sensor data containing information about non-presence of an obstacle. 6. The method as set forth in claim 2, wherein the elimination of the conflict cells is performed by, among the candidates for the incorrect data, determining presence of the obstacle using the sound pressure comparison, and selecting and eliminating the incorrect data using the obstacle the presence of which has been determined, thereby eliminating inconsistency in the sensor data. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1, wherein likelihood in the maximum approximated likelihood approach is defined by the following equation: .function..eta..times..times..times..times..function..sigma. ##EQU00024## where z.sub.i is measurement of the sensors, M is the grid map, .eta. is a normalization term, .sigma. is uncertainty of the sonar sensor data, and d(N.sub.i) is distance to a nearest obstacle N.sub.i and is defined by the following equation: .function..times..times..times..times..times..times..noteq..theta..times.- .times..times..times..theta. ##EQU00025## 8. The method as set forth in claim 7, wherein a maximum likelihood solution of the maximum approximated likelihood is expressed by the following equation: .times..times..times..function..times..times..times..times..function. ##EQU00026## where Z={z.sub.1, . . . , z.sub.n}, M is the grid map, z.sub.i is measurement of the sensors, and d(N.sub.i) is distance to a nearest obstacle N.sub.i. 9. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein the maximum approximated likelihood is approximated considering the uncertainty of the sonar sensor data in the equation of claim 8. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9, wherein a global solution of the equation of claim 8 is obtained: with, in the case of consistent cells, the consistent cells being set to an occupied state if the cells have information about occupation, and being set to an empty state if the cells have information about emptiness, and with, in the case of uncertain cells, the cells being always set to an empty state. 