A storage device processing system that includes at least one automated transporter, at least one rack accessible by the at least one automated transporter, and multiple test slots housed by the at least one rack. Each test slot is configured to receive a storage device for testing. The storage device processing system includes a conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by the at least one automated transporter. The conveyor receives and transports the storage device thereon. The at least one automated transporter is configured to transfer the storage device between the conveyor and one of the test slots of the at least one rack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device processing system comprising: at least one automated transporter; at least one rack accessible by the at least one automated transporter; multiple test slots housed by the at least one rack, each test slot being configured to receive a storage device for testing; and a conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by the at least one automated transporter, the conveyor receiving and transporting the storage device thereon; wherein the at least one automated transporter is configured to transfer the storage device between the conveyor and one of the test slots of the at least one rack. 2. The storage device processing system of claim 1, further comprising a controller in communication with the at least one automated transporter and the at least one rack, the controller configured to control the at least one automated transporter and coordinate movement of the storage device within the storage device processing system. 3. The storage device processing system of claim 2, further comprising an identification reader in communication with the controller and configured to read an identifier on at least one of the storage device, a storage device transporter for transferring of the storage device by the at least one automated transporter, and a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying the storage device on the conveyor. 4. The storage device processing system of claim 3, wherein the identification reader is disposed on at least one of a manipulator disposed on the at least one automated transporter for transferring the storage device, a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the conveyor. 5. The storage device processing system of claim 3, wherein the controller stores in a memory a location of each storage device within the storage device processing system. 6. The storage device processing system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying the storage device on the conveyor. 7. The storage device processing system of claim 6, wherein the storage device fixture comprises an identifier for identification of the storage device fixture. 8. The storage device processing system of claim 6, wherein the storage device fixture rotates on the conveyor to orient a longitudinal axis defined by the storage device fixture at an angle with respect to a conveying direction defined by the conveyor for interaction with the at least one automated transporter. 9. The storage device processing system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the conveyor. 10. The storage device processing system of claim 1, further comprising a guide system configured to support multiple automated transporters that move along the guide system to service test slots of the at least one rack. 11. The storage device processing system of claim 1, wherein the at least one automated transporter defines a work zone encompassing multiple test slots of the at least one rack for servicing. 12. The storage device processing system of claim 11, wherein the work zone of each automated transporter is defined by an operating envelope of the respective automated transporter. 13. The storage device processing system of claim 11, wherein the work zone of each automated transporter is defined by a controller in communication with the respective automated transporter. 14. A storage device processing system comprising: a first conveyor arranged in a loop and configured to receive and convey a storage device, the first conveyor having at least one on-way and at least one off-way for the ingress and egress of the storage device onto and off of the first conveyor; and at least one storage device processing module comprising: at least one automated transporter; at least one rack accessible by the at least one automated transporter; multiple test slots housed by the at least one rack, each test slot being configured to receive the storage device for testing; and a second conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by the at least one automated transporter, the second conveyor receiving and transporting the storage device thereon; wherein the at least one automated transporter is configured to transfer the storage device between the conveyor and one of the test slots of the at least one rack; and wherein at least one on-way and at least one off-way connect the first conveyor to the second conveyor for movement of the storage device there between. 15. The storage device processing system of claim 14, wherein the first conveyor comprises a diverter for directing the storage device off of the conveyor and onto the off-way. 16. The storage device processing system of claim 15, wherein the diverter comprises: a diverter body; first and second rotating cylinders disposed on the diverter body, the first cylinder defining a longitudinal axis of rotation about which the diverter rotates to direct the storage device off of the conveyor; and a belt disposed on the first and second rotating cylinders, the belt being driven around the first and second rotating cylinders for directing the storage device off of the conveyor. 17. The storage device processing system of claim 14, wherein the first conveyor comprises a diverter for directing the storage device from the on-way onto the conveyor. 18. The storage device processing system of claim 17, wherein the diverter comprises: a first diverter body; first and second rotating cylinders disposed on the first diverter body, the first cylinder defining a longitudinal axis of rotation about which the diverter rotates to direct the storage device off of the on-way and onto the conveyor; a first belt disposed on and being driven around the first and second rotating cylinders; a second diverter body coupled to the first diverter body; third and fourth rotating cylinders disposed on the second diverter body; a second belt disposed on and being driven around the third and fourth rotating cylinders; wherein the first and second diverter bodies a spaced to received the storage device between the first and second belts. 19. The storage device processing system of claim 18, wherein the diverter comprises a drive assembly for lifting and rotating the diverter and the received storage device between the first and second belts. 20. The storage device processing system of claim 14, further comprising a controller in communication with the at least one storage device processing module and the first conveyor, the controller coordinate movement of the storage device within the storage device processing system. 21. The storage device processing system of claim 14, wherein each storage device processing module further comprises a controller in communication with the at least one automated transporter and the at least one rack, the controller configured to control the at least one automated transporter and coordinate movement of the storage device within the storage device processing module. 22. The storage device processing system of claim 21, wherein each storage device processing module further comprises an identification reader in communication with the controller and configured to read an identifier on at least one of the storage device, a storage device transporter for transferring of the storage device by the at least one automated transporter, and a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying the storage device on the second conveyor. 23. The storage device processing system of claim 22, wherein the identification reader is disposed on at least one of a manipulator disposed on the at least one automated transporter for transferring the storage device, a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the conveyor. 24. The storage device processing system of claim 22, wherein the controller stores in a memory a location of each storage device within the storage device processing module. 25. The storage device processing system of claim 14, wherein at least one of the first and second conveyors comprises a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying the storage device on the respective conveyor. 26. The storage device processing system of claim 25, wherein the storage device fixture comprises an identifier for identification of the storage device fixture. 27. The storage device processing system of claim 25, wherein the storage device fixture rotates on the respective conveyor to orient a longitudinal axis defined by the storage device fixture at an angle with respect to a conveying direction defined by the respective conveyor. 28. The storage device processing system of claim 14, wherein the second conveyor comprises a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the second conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the second conveyor. 29. The storage device processing system of claim 14, further comprising a guide system configured to support multiple automated transporters that move along the guide system to service test slots of the at least one rack. 30. The storage device processing system of claim 14, wherein the at least one automated transporter defines a work zone encompassing multiple test slots of the at least one rack for servicing. 31. The storage device processing system of claim 30, wherein the work zone of each automated transporter is defined by an operating envelope of the respective automated transporter. 32. The storage device processing system of claim 30, wherein the work zone of each automated transporter is defined by a controller in communication with the respective automated transporter. 33. A method of transferring storage devices within a storage device processing system, the method comprising: receiving a storage device on a conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by at least one automated transporter; actuating the at least one automated transporter to retrieve the storage device from the conveyor; and actuating the at least one automated transporter to deliver the retrieved storage device to a test slot of the storage device processing system and to insert the storage device in the test slot. 34. The method of claim 33, further comprising receiving the storage device on the conveyor at a loading station and removing the storage device from the conveyor at an unloading station. 35. The method of claim 33, further comprising: actuating the at least one automated transporter to retrieve the storage devices from the test slot; and actuating the at least one automated transporter to deliver the retrieved storage device to the conveyor. 36. The method of claim 33, further comprising reading an identifier on at least one of the storage device, a storage device transporter for transferring of the storage device by the at least one automated transporter, and a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying the storage device on the conveyor for tracking movement of the identifier within the processing system. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising reading the identifier with an identification reader disposed on at least one of a manipulator disposed on the at least one automated transporter for transferring the storage device, a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the conveyor. 38. The method of claim 33, further comprising receiving the storage device in a storage device fixture disposed on the conveyor. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising rotating the storage device fixture on the conveyor to orient a longitudinal axis defined by the storage device fixture at an angle with respect to a conveying direction defined by the conveyor for interaction with the at least one automated transporter. 40. The method of claim 33, further comprising determining a work zone of the at least one automated transporter, the work zone encompassing multiple test slots of the at least one rack for servicing by the at least one automated transporter. 41. A method of transferring storage devices within a storage device processing system, the method comprising: receiving a storage device on a first conveyor arranged in a loop around one or more storage device processing modules, each storage device processing module comprising: at least one automated transporter; at least one rack accessible by the at least one automated transporter; multiple test slots housed by the at least one rack, each test slot being configured to receive the storage device for testing; and a second conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by the at least one automated transporter, the second conveyor receiving and transporting the storage device thereon; wherein the at least one automated transporter is configured to transfer the storage device between the second conveyor and one of the test slots of the at least one rack; and wherein at least one on-way and at least one off-way connect the first conveyor to the second conveyor for movement of the storage device there between; and transporting the storage device received on the first conveyor to one of the storage device processing modules; and directing the storage device off of the first conveyor onto the off-way into the respective storage device processing module. 42. The method of claim 41, further comprising: actuating the at least one automated transporter to retrieve the received storage device from the second conveyor; and actuating the at least one automated transporter to deliver the retrieved storage device to a test slot of the storage device processing module and to insert the storage device in the test slot. 43. The method of claim 41, further comprising receiving the storage device on the second conveyor at a loading station and removing the storage device from the second conveyor at an unloading station. 44. The method of claim 41, further comprising: actuating the at least one automated transporter to retrieve the storage devices from the test slot; and actuating the at least one automated transporter to deliver the retrieved storage device to the second conveyor. 45. The method of claim 41, further comprising reading an identifier on at least one of the storage device, a storage device transporter for transferring of the storage device by the at least one automated transporter, and a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying the storage device on the conveyors for tracking movement of the identifier within the processing system. 46. The method of claim 45, further comprising reading the identifier with an identification reader disposed on at least one of a manipulator disposed on the at least one automated transporter for transferring the storage device, a loading station for receiving the storage device onto one of the conveyors and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from one of the conveyors. 47. The method of claim 41, further comprising receiving the storage device in a storage device fixture disposed on one of the conveyors. 48. The method of claim 47, further comprising rotating the storage device fixture on the respective conveyor to orient a longitudinal axis defined by the storage device fixture at an angle with respect to a conveying direction defined by the respective conveyor. 49. The method of claim 41, further comprising determining a work zone of the at least one automated transporter, the work zone encompassing multiple test slots of the at least one rack for servicing by the at least one automated transporter. 