A plurality linkages, preferably a robot holding either a spot welder with welding guns or the workpiece. The plurality of linkages move a spot welder with open tongs toward a first spot weld position. The welding guns are then closed on the workpiece and welding is performed at the first spot weld position. While the welding is being performed, parts of the plurality of linkages are advanced toward a second weld position while the welding guns remained closed at the first spot weld position. When the welding at the first position is finished, parts of the linkages are already advanced towards the second position, and the remaining linkages are then advanced to the second position. This allows the linkages or robot to move faster from one spot weld position to another.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A process for the electric spot welding a workpiece, the process comprising the steps of: providing welding tongs with electrodes, the welding tongs including electrodes pressed-on the workpiece when the welding tongs are closed; moving the workpiece and the welding tongs relative to each other along a path between the welding spots; performing a plurality of spot welds along the path on the workpiece by the welding tongs; moving the workpiece and a part of the welding tongs relative to one another along the path during said performing of the spot welds, the workpiece and the welding tongs are rotated relative to one another along the path during performing of the spot welds, the workpiece and the welding tongs are rotated relative to one another about an electrode axis extending between the pressed-on electrodes when the said welding tongs are closed, the rotary motion around the welding spot is directed in a direction of the path toward a next welding spot, the workpiece and the welding tongs are rotated relative to one another during an opening of the said welding tongs, the workpiece and the welding tongs are rotated relative to one another during a closing of the welding tongs; a robot is provided for said moving of the workpiece and the part of the welding tongs relative to one another, the robot including main axes I, II, III performing a substantially constant guiding motion along the path and a superimposing compensating motion with a multiaxial robot hand, said compensating motion of the robot hand is an adjusting motion around the welding spot when the welding tongs are closed, said compensating motion of the robot hand is an orienting motion around a hand root point in a direction to a next welding spot when the welding tongs are open. 2. A process in accordance with claim 1, wherein: the workpiece and the welding tongs are rotated relative to one another in a rotary motion around the spot weld when the welding tongs are closed. 3. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said robot is an articulated arm robot; said welding tongs include electrodes, said electrodes being rotated in relation to the workpiece when making said welding spots. 4. A process for producing a plurality of electric spot welds on a workpiece, the process comprising the steps of: providing a spot welder with tongs for contacting the workpiece at a plurality of spot weld positions to perform spot welding on the workpiece at the spot weld positions; providing a plurality of linkages for moving the spot welder relative to the plurality of spot weld positions; determining a displacing path for the plurality of linkages, the displacing path indicating a path for moving the spot welder relative to the workpiece from each of the spot weld positions to a next spot weld position; relatively moving the spot welder with open tongs toward a first spot weld position with the plurality of linkages; closing the tongs of the spot welder on the first spot weld position; performing a spot weld at the first spot weld position while the tongs are closed on the first spot weld position; advancing a first linkage of the plurality of linkages along the displacing path while the tongs are closed on the first spot weld position; moving a second linkage of the plurality of linkages to counteract said moving of the first linkage in order to hold the tongs closed on the first spot weld position; the plurality of linkages are part of a robotic device that includes a base and a hand, the hand being connected to one of the spot welder and the workpiece; said moving of the spot welder with open tongs including moving the hand respect to the base; the first linkage is closer to the base than the second linkage; said moving of the second linkage includes changing an angular position of the tongs with respect to the workpiece while the tongs are closed on the workpiece at the first spot weld position; said moving of the spot welder with open tongs includes moving the second linkage in an advance movement to compensate for said moving of the first linkage while the tongs are closed. 5. A process in accordance with claim 4, wherein: said performing of said spot weld at the first spot weld position includes pressing the welding tongs against the workpiece; said advancing of one of the plurality of linkages along the displacing path occurs during said pressing of the welding tongs against the workpiece. 6. A process in accordance with claim 4, wherein: said performing of said plurality of spot welds includes passing a current between the welding tongs and through the workpiece; said advancing of one of the plurality of linkages along the displacing path occurs during said passing of the current between the welding tongs and through the workpiece. 7. A process in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said performing of said plurality of spot welds includes pressing the welding tongs against the workpiece; said moving of the workpiece and a part of the welding tongs relative to one another along the path occurs during said pressing of the welding tongs against the workpiece. 8. A process in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said performing of said plurality of spot welds includes passing a current between the welding tongs and through the workpiece; said moving of the workpiece and a part of the welding tongs relative to one another along the path occurs during said passing of the current between the welding tongs and through the workpiece. 9. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: a control unit rotates said welding tongs about one of said welding spots to perform the relative movement when making a respective said welding spot. 10. A process for the electric spot welding a workpiece, the process comprising the steps of: providing welding tongs with electrodes; pressing the electrodes of the welding tongs against a welding spot of the workpiece; turning the electrodes of the welding tongs relative to the workpiece during said pressing of the electrodes against the welding spot; spot welding the workpiece at the welding spot by the electrodes during said pressing and turning of the electrodes against the workpiece; opening the welding tongs to remove the electrodes from the welding spot of the workpiece; providing a plurality of linkages for moving the welding tongs relative to the workpiece; determining a displacing path for the plurality of linkages, the displacing path indicating a path for the plurality of linkages to move the welding tongs relative to the workpiece from the weld spot to another weld spot; advancing a first of the plurality of linkages along the displacing path during said pressing and turning of the electrodes against the workpiece; providing a plurality of weld spots along the displacing path; moving the plurality of linkages along the displacing path to bring the welding tongs to the plurality of weld spots; spot welding the workpiece at the plurality of weld spots when the plurality of linkages bring the welding tongs to the plurality of weld spots; said advancing of the first of the plurality of linkages includes moving the one linkage along the displacing path during said spot welding of the plurality of weld spots, said advancing of the first of the plurality of linkages includes continuously moving the first linkage along the displacing path during said spot welding of the plurality of weld spots. 11. A process in accordance with claim 10, further comprising: moving a second of the plurality of linkages in a compensating motion to counteract said advancing of the first linkage in order to keep the electrodes in contact with the workpiece during said spot welding. 