A break-away mounting system for a continuous-motion, high-speed position conveyor system is disclosed. A support cradle may be suspended from a conveyor belt such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on the conveyor belt, the support cradle, or the coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. The mount may include a leading rotatable bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. The mount may also include a slide bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising: locating a substrate carrier on a longitudinal location of a conveyor belt of a positioning conveyor; moving the conveyor belt along a travel route; suspending a support cradle from the conveyor belt, wherein the support cradle supports the substrate carrier; and distributing inertial loads arising in the conveyed substrate carrier along multiple longitudinal locations of the conveyor belt so as to limit an occurrence of fatigue within the conveyor belt. 2. A method comprising: suspending a support cradle from a conveyor belt; transporting a substrate carrier on the support cradle, the support cradle being suspended from the conveyor belt via an accommodating mount adapted to limit an occurrence of fatigue within the conveyor belt; and attaching and detaching the substrate carrier to/from the support cradle without stopping the conveyor belt. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the accommodating mount includes a rotatable bearing attachable to a first key which is attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing being adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the accommodating mount includes a slide bearing attachable to a second key which is attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing being adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. 5. The method of claim 2 further comprising detaching the support cradle from the conveyor belt in response to a predetermined magnitude of force. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the predetermined magnitude of force is intentionally applied in order to remove the support cradle from the conveyor belt. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the predetermined magnitude of force is unintentionally applied. 8. The method of claim 2 further comprising deflecting the support cradle from the conveyor belt in response to a predetermined magnitude of force. 9. The method of claim 5 or 8 wherein the predetermined magnitude of force is greater than or about 25 pounds. 10. A system for continuously conveying articles through a transport path within a fabrication facility comprising: a conveyor belt; a transport path adapted to have at least one bend; a support cradle adapted to be attached to the conveyor belt; a rotatable bearing of the support cradle adapted to be coupled to a first key, the first key being adapted to attach to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing being adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt, wherein the support cradle is adapted to support a substrate carrier, and wherein the support cradle is adapted to maintain a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on any one of the conveyor belt, the support cradle, and a coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. 11. The system of claim 10 further including a slide bearing of the support cradle being adapted to couple to a second key, the second key adapted to attach to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing being adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein the support cradle is adapted to be detached from the conveyor belt in response to a predetermined magnitude of force. 13. The system of claim 10 wherein the support cradle is adapted to be deflected from the conveyor belt in response to a predetermined magnitude of force. 14. The system of claim 12 or 13 wherein the predetermined magnitude of force is greater than or about 25 pounds. 15. A system for continuously conveying articles through a transport path within a fabrication facility comprising: a conveyor belt; a transport path adapted to have at least one bend; a support cradle adapted to be attached to the conveyor belt; a slide bearing of the support cradle being adapted to couple to a first key, the first key being adapted to attach to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing being adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt, wherein the support cradle is adapted to support a substrate carrier, and wherein the support cradle is adapted to maintain a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on any one of the conveyor belt, the support cradle, and a coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. 16. The system of claim 15 further including a rotatable bearing of the support cradle adapted to be coupled to a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing being adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. 17. A system for continuously conveying articles through a transport path within a fabrication facility comprising: a conveyor belt having a longitudinal direction of travel; at least one mounting location on the conveyor belt including at least two keys; and a support including at least a rotatable bearing and a slide bearing, each bearing adapted to engage either key, wherein the support may be mounted on the conveyor belt at the mounting location by engaging the keys with the bearings, wherein the support is operative to deflect away from the longitudinal direction of travel in response to a predetermined amount of force applied to the support. 18. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt having a longitudinal direction of travel; at least one mounting location on the conveyor belt including at least two keys; and a support including at least a rotatable bearing and a slide bearing, each bearing adapted to engage either key, wherein the support may be mounted on the conveyor belt at the mounting location by engaging the keys with the bearings, wherein the support is operative to deflect away from the longitudinal direction of travel in response to a predetermined amount of force applied to the support. 19. A coupling interface for attaching an article support to a conveyor belt of a conveying system, comprising: a mounting feature located on a conveyor belt of a conveying system at a longitudinal location of the conveyor belt; a rotation restriction element in contact with the conveyor belt; and a rotatable coupling element adapted to be attached to an article support, adapted to locate on the longitudinal location of the conveyor belt by mating with the mounting feature, adapted to be limited in an amount of rotation by the rotation restriction element, and adapted to demate from the mounting feature by moving longitudinally relative to the mounting feature when urged by a sufficiently large frontal impact. 