One aspect relates to visualizing, imaging, or providing information at least partially through at least some matter of an at least a portion of an individual, based at least in part on Compton scattering to at least partially form scattered X-rays, the Compton scattering occurring primarily in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual, wherein the visualizing, imaging, or providing information is at least partially performed by converting the scattered X-rays into an at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible light that is detectable by a user. Another aspect relates to Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual to allow the at least one individual and/or an untrained assistant to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual based at least partially on Compton scattered X-rays.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an individual to allow a user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through an X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual with X-ray photons using at least a portion of at least one Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider that operates with an at least one portable electric-power source and at least partially relying on a geometric derivation of X-ray photon travel during scattering events. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider operates with the at least one portable electric-power source remote from an at least one primary power source. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one portable electric-power source includes at least one battery. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one portable electric-power source includes at least one capacitor. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one portable electric-power source includes at least one vehicular power source. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one portable electric-power source includes at least one home-based power source. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one portable electric-power source includes at least one generator. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one portable electric-power source includes at least one fuel cell. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information is performed where the individual spends considerable time with a likelihood of injury or illness. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual to allow a user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through the X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual comprises: Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual to allow the user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through the X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual at least partially relying on X-ray photon energy level loss during scattering events. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual to allow a user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through the X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual comprises: Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual to allow the user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through the X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual at least partially using differentiation of data corresponding to first and second penetration depths of the X-ray photons. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual to allow a user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through the X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual comprises: Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual to allow the user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through the X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual at least partially using a scintillator. 13. A method, comprising: Compton scattered X-ray based visualizing, imaging, or providing information of an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an individual to allow a user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information through an X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual with X-ray photons using at least a portion of at least one Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider that operates with an at least one portable electric-power source and at least partially relying on a time of flight of the X-ray photons. 14. An apparatus, comprising: a Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider operable with an at least one portable electric-power source and configured to allow an at least one individual and/or an untrained assistant to visualize, image, or provide information through a selected X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth of an at least some matter of an at least a portion of the at least one individual using X-ray photons based at least partially on Compton X-ray scattering and based at least partially on a change of direction of travel of at least one X-ray photon undergoing a scattering event. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider configured to allow the at least one individual and/or the untrained assistant to visualize, image, or provide information of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual using X-ray photons based at least partially on Compton X-ray scattering comprises: the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider configured to allow the at least one individual and/or the untrained assistant to visualize, image, or provide information over a X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth range to a prescribed visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the at least one individual includes a human. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is further configured to allow the at least one individual and/or the untrained assistant to visualize, image, or provide information of the at least some matter of the at least a portion of the at least one individual using X-ray photons based at least partially on an energy level change of at least one X-ray photon undergoing a scattering event. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider includes a scintillator configured to output viewable and/or visible light to a human. 19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider includes a scintillator configured to output viewable and/or visible light to a machine. 20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is further configured to allow the at least one individual and/or the untrained assistant to visualize, image, or provide information of the at least some matter of the at least a portion of the at least one individual using X-ray photons based at least partially on a time of flight detection. 21. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is further configured to allow the at least one individual and/or the untrained assistant to visualize, image, or provide information of the at least some matter of the at least a portion of the at least one individual using X-ray photons based at least partially on an differentiation of data corresponding to first and second penetration depths of the X-ray photons. 22. An apparatus, comprising: a Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider configured to Compton scattered X-ray based visualize, image, or provide information into an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual to allow a user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual with X-ray photons at least partially using a portable electric-power source and based at least partially on a change of direction of travel of at least one X-ray photon undergoing a scattering event. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is further configured to Compton scattered X-ray based visualize, image, or provide information over an X-ray visualization, imaging, or information providing depth range to a prescribed visualization, imaging, or information providing depth into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the portable electric-power source is configured to operate remotely from at least one primary power source. 25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the portable electric-power source includes at least one battery. 26. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the portable electric-power source includes at least one capacitor. 27. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the portable electric-power source includes at least one vehicular power source. 28. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the portable electric-power source includes at least one home-based power source. 29. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the portable electric-power source includes at least one generator. 30. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the portable electric-power source includes at least one fuel cell. 31. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is further configured to Compton scattered X-ray based visualize, image, or provide information based at least partially on an energy level change of at least one X-ray photon undergoing a scattering event. 32. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider includes a scintillator. 33. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is further configured to Compton scattered X-ray based visualize, image, or provide information based at least partially on differentiation of data corresponding to first and second penetration depths of the X-ray photons. 34. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the at least one individual includes a group, the group including at least one from a human, an animal, a plant, or an organism. 35. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is configured to operate in a war zone. 36. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is configured to operate in a medical office. 37. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is configured to operate in a vehicle. 38. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is configured to operate in a home. 39. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider is configured to operate in an office. 40. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the user includes at least one human user. 41. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the user includes at least one machine-based user. 42. An apparatus, comprising: a Compton scattered X-ray visualizer, imager, or information provider configured to Compton scattered X-ray based visualize, image, or provide information into an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual to allow a user to at least partially visualize, image, or provide information into the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual with X-ray photons at least partially using a portable electric-power source and based at least partially on a time of flight detection. 