This document discusses, among other things, a portable device that generates position and orientation data to facilitate movement within a building. The device can be, for example, handheld or affixed to a cane. Data for navigation is derived from reflections from interior surfaces and dead reckoning sensors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable system comprising: a first sensor configured to provide rotational velocity data; a second sensor configured to provide distance data based on a reflected signal; and a processor coupled to the first sensor and the second sensor and configured to execute an algorithm using the rotation velocity data and the distance data to determine at least one of a position relative to a landmark and a heading relative to the landmark. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the first sensor includes at least one of a gyroscope, an inertia-based sensor and an accelerometer. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the second sensor includes at least one of a laser and an ultrasonic transceiver. 4. The system of claim 1 further including a distance measuring device coupled to the processor. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the distance measuring device includes a pedometer. 6. The system of claim 1 further including an output device coupled to the processor and wherein the output device is configured to render a human perceivable output based on at least one of the position and the heading. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the output device includes at least one of a haptic transducer, an audio transducer, a memory and a transceiver. 8. A portable system comprising: a scanner to provide distance data based on a distance to a surface; a gyroscope to provide rotational data based on rotational movement; a pedometer to provide travel data based on linear movement; a processor in communication with the scanner, the gyroscope, and the pedometer and having instructions for determining navigation data based on the distance data, the rotational data, and the travel data; and an output device in communication with the processor and configured to render the navigation data in a human perceivable manner. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the scanner includes at least one of a laser scanner and an ultrasonic scanner. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein the gyroscope is sensitive to rotation about three axes. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein the pedometer includes an accelerometer. 12. The system of claim 8 wherein the processor includes a personal data assistant. 13. The system of claim 8 wherein at least one of the scanner and the gyroscope is coupled to the processor by a wired connection. 14. The system of claim 8 wherein the pedometer is coupled to the processor by a wireless connection. 15. The system of claim 8 wherein the output device includes at least one of a display, a memory device, an audio transducer, and a haptic device. 16. The system of claim 8 wherein the navigation data includes a map. 17. The system of claim 8 further including: a memory coupled to the processor; and an input port coupled to the memory and further wherein map data can be received at the input port and stored in the memory. 18. The system of claim 8 further including a housing having disposed thereon at least one of the scanner, the gyroscope, the processor, and the output device. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the housing is coupled to a cane. 20. A method comprising: receiving reflected data corresponding to a surface; receiving rotational velocity data corresponding to a rotation; receiving linear motion data; receiving a landmark location; and executing an algorithm using the reflected data, the rotational velocity data, and the linear motion data to determine at least one of a position relative to the landmark location and a heading relative to the landmark location. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein receiving the landmark location includes receiving a map of an interior space. 22. The method of claim 20 further including determining a route within an interior space relative to the landmark location. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein receiving the linear motion data includes at least one of linear velocity data and linear acceleration data. 24. The method of claim 20 wherein executing the algorithm includes implementing a filter. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein implementing the filter includes implementing a Kalman filter. 26. The method of claim 24 wherein implementing the filter includes implementing an extended Kalman filter. 27. A system comprising: means for generating rotational velocity data; means for generating distance data based on a reflected signal; and means for determining, relative to a landmark, at least one of a position and a heading based on the rotational velocity data and the distance data. 28. A system comprising: means for providing distance data based on a distance to a surface; means for providing rotational data based on a rotation; means for providing travel data based on movement; means for determining navigation data based on the distance data, the rotational data, and the travel data; and output means for rendering the navigation data in a human perceivable manner. 