In a spectrographic workpiece metrology system having an optical viewing window, the viewing window is calibrated against a reference sample of a known absolute reflectance spectrum to produce a normalized reflectance spectrum of the reference sample, which is combined with the absolute reflectance spectrum to produce a correction factor. Successive production workpieces are measured through the window and calibrated against the viewing window reflectance, and transformed to absolute reflectance spectra using the same correction factor without having to re-load the reference sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of measuring the reflectance spectrum of a workpiece using an optical sensing apparatus having a viewing window facing a workpiece support surface, comprising: computing a correction function by combining together (A) a predetermined reflectance spectrum of a reference sample and (B) a measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample that has been (a) measured through said viewing window and (h) normalized with a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window; measuring through said viewing window a reflectance spectrum of a workpiece, normalizing said reflectance spectrum of the workpiece with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window, and computing a reflectance spectrum of the workpiece by combining the normalized workpiece reflectance spectrum with said correction function. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising obtaining the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window by collecting light reflected internally in said optical apparatus from said viewing window. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said obtaining a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window further comprises refraining from placing a workpiece on said support surface while providing said support surface as a non-reflective surface. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising normalizing said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample by combining said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said combining said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises performing a division between said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said performing a division between said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises dividing said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample by the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein said normalizing the measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample further comprises subtracting from said normalized reflectance spectrum an intensity value of unity or 1.00. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said combining said predetermined reflectance spectrum and the normalized reflectance spectrum of said reference sample comprises performing a division between said predetermined reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the normalized reflectance spectrum of said reference sample. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said performing a division between said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises dividing said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample by the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 10. The method of claim 2 further comprising remeasuring the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window after either: (a) obtaining the reflectance spectra of a predetermined number of said succession of production workpieces or (b) an elapsed time has exceeded a predetermined threshold. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said obtaining a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window further comprises refraining from placing a workpiece on said support surface while providing said support surface as a non-reflective surface. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said normalizing the workpiece reflectance spectrum comprises combining said workpiece reflectance spectrum with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said combining said workpiece reflectance spectrum with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises performing a division between said workpiece reflectance spectrum and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said performing a division between said workpiece reflectance spectrum and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises dividing said workpiece reflectance spectrum by the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said normalizing the workpiece reflectance spectrum further comprises subtracting from said normalized reflectance spectrum of said workpiece an intensity value of unity or 1.00. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said combining normalized reflection spectrum of said workpiece and said correction function comprises performing a multiplication of said normalized reflection spectrum of said workpiece by said correction function. 17. A method of performing spectrographic workpiece metrology through an optical viewing window, comprising: calibrating the viewing window against a reference sample of a predetermined reflectance spectrum to produce a normalized reflectance spectrum of the reference sample; combining the normalized reflectance spectrum with the predetermined reflectance spectrum to produce a correction factor; measuring reflectance spectra of a workpiece through said window and normalizing said reflectance spectra of the workpiece against the viewing window reflectance spectrum to produce a normalized workpiece reflectance spectrum; and transforming the normalized workpiece reflectance spectrum using said correction factor. 