A radiosurgery system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, other disorders or tissues of a body are treated with the dose of radiation. In some embodiments, the target tissues are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the target tissues inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the target tissues within the coordinate system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized in which beam energy and direction and duration of time for treatment is determined for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial marker is used to identify the location of the target tissues. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, of treating a structure of an eye with an x-ray beam from a radiotherapy system, comprising: contacting a surface of the eye with an eye contact member that is coupled to the radiotherapy system; emitting a first x-ray beam toward the structure, from the radiotherapy system located outside the eye, such that the first x-ray beam has a first trajectory that intersects a primary axis substantially at the structure; after emitting the first x-ray beam, moving the radiotherapy system about the primary axis; emitting a second x-ray beam toward the structure, from the radiotherapy system, such that the second x-ray beam has a second trajectory, different than the first trajectory, that intersects the primary axis substantially at the structure; wherein the primary axis passes through the structure and the eye contact member. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing the first x-ray beam through a portion of the eye contact member that is transmissive to x-ray radiation. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising emitting a light toward the eye that provides an indication of a trajectory of the x-ray beam. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising emitting the light through a portion of the eye contact member that is transmissive to the light. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising substantially fixing the eye in a first position with the eye contact member. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting movement of the eye from a first position to a second position. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising generating a signal indicative of the movement of the eye. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising altering the emitting based on the signal. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the altering comprises changing a trajectory of the x-ray beam. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the altering comprises ceasing or reducing the emission of the x-ray beam when the second position is outside a determined area of eye movement. 