Systems and methods that process a plurality of surgical instruments for cleaning and/or packaging. A device identifies a robot-ready insert having a predetermined configuration for accepting at least one type of surgical instrument. The surgical instruments are identified and oriented according to type using an automated apparatus. Specialized tools are also provided for automatically opening and closing surgical instruments, flipping instruments and assisting in the processing and maintenance of surgical instruments. The automated apparatus then places each of the surgical instrument types in one or more predetermined areas of the insert, configured to accept a predetermined set of surgical instrument types.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing a plurality of surgical instruments for packaging, comprising: an automated apparatus for identifying an insert containing a plurality of surgical instruments in one or more predetermined areas, wherein each predetermined area correlates to a type of surgical instrument, and wherein the automated apparatus removes and identifies each of the plurality of surgical instruments from the predetermined areas; and a device for orienting each of the plurality of instruments according to type wherein the automated apparatus performs a maintenance process on each of the oriented surgical instruments, wherein the maintenance process comprises at least one of (1) inspecting the physical characteristics of one or more surgical instruments using an optical apparatus, (2) inspecting the mechanical characteristics of one or more surgical instruments using an automated mechanical apparatus, and (3) accessing an instrument inspection record database. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the automated apparatus comprises a robotic arm. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the insert is identified using one of an RFID reader and a barcode reader. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the device for orienting comprises a flipping device that rotationally directs an instrument to turn 180 .degree.. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the optical apparatus is a machine-vision device. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the machine-vision device inspects the surgical instrument for one or more of (1) deformation, (2) contamination, and (3) sharpness. 7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the automated mechanical apparatus comprises a device that exerts and measures force applied to the surgical instrument. 8. The system according to claim 1, comprising: a body; an actuator; and two jaws having contoured faces configured on the body of the device, and coupled to the actuator, the contoured face for each jaw comprising a raised surface, wherein the raised surface on one jaw is arranged to oppose the other, wherein the jaws and actuator are configured to manipulate the contoured faces in a predetermined direction. 9. The system according to claim 1, comprising: a body; an actuator; a drivetrain mounted on the body and coupled to the actuator; a first plate fixed to a first of two concentric axles of the drivetrain; and a second plate fixed to the second of the two concentric axles, wherein the first and second plate are radially offset from their respective axles by a predetermined distance. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein accessing an instrument inspection record comprises accessing a maintenance history record for an identified surgical instrument to determine if maintenance is required at the time of the maintenance process. 11. A method of processing a plurality of surgical instruments for packaging, comprising the steps of: identifying an insert containing a plurality of surgical instruments in one or more predetermined areas, wherein each predetermined area correlates to a type of surgical instrument; removing and identifying each of the plurality of surgical instruments from the predetermined areas using an automated apparatus; orienting each of the plurality of instruments according to type; and performing a maintenance process on each of the oriented surgical instruments, wherein the maintenance process comprises at least one of (1) inspecting the physical characteristics of one or more surgical instruments using an optical apparatus, (2) inspecting the mechanical characteristics of one or more surgical instruments using an automated mechanical apparatus, and (3) accessing an instrument inspection record database. 