A system and method for self-synchronization of modular production systems having components with various alternative capabilities for processing and transporting work units along transport highways, for various component/transport highway configurations. The method includes determining jobs of interest, with each job requiring the production of at least one work unit. The configuration of the components, including at least one machine module, and the transport highway is determined. Each component duration time is determined and a default self-synchronization time is identified. The default self-synchronization time is optimized by adjusting not less than one component duration time.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method of self-synchronization of a modular production system, including: selecting at least one work unit path through the modular production system; identifying a configuration of components associated with each selected work unit path, wherein each configuration of components includes at least one transport highway, at least one machine module, and at least two moving components associated with each machine module, each transport highway including a plurality of highway segments arranged to transfer work units along the corresponding selected work unit path; determining a component duration time for each machine module and moving component associated with each selected work unit path; determining a segment duration time for each highway segment associated with each selected work unit path; determining a default self-synchronization time for each selected work unit path, wherein each default self-synchronization time includes a sum of component and segment duration times associated with the corresponding selected work unit path; and determining an adjusted self-synchronization time for each default self-synchronization time by increasing at least one component or segment duration time associated with the corresponding selected work unit path, wherein each adjusted self-synchronization time is an integer multiple of the component duration time for a select machine module associated with the corresponding selected work unit path. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the configuration of components for a first selected work unit path includes a first transport highway, a first machine module, and a first off-ramp and a first on-ramp associated with the first machine module, the first transport highway including a first plurality of highway segments arranged to enable a work unit to flow through the first off-ramp, first machine module, and first on-ramp. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein determining the default self-synchronization time for the first selected work unit path includes summing component and segment duration times along the first selected work unit path when the work unit flows through the first machine module to obtain a flow-through sum. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the first plurality of highway segments are arranged to enable the work unit to bypass the first off-ramp, first machine module, and first on-ramp. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein determining the default self-synchronization time for the first selected work unit path includes summing the segment duration times along the first selected work unit path when the work unit bypasses the first machine module to obtain a bypass sum and determining an absolute difference between the bypass sum and the flow-through sum. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein the first plurality of highway segments are arranged to enable the work unit to flow through the first off-ramp, first machine module, and first on-ramp for at least one additional cycle. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein the configuration of components for the first selected work unit path includes a second transport highway, a second machine module associated with the second transport highway, a second off-ramp and a second on-ramp associated with the second machine module, the second transport highway including a second plurality of highway segments arranged to enable the work unit to flow through the second machine module. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein determining the default self-synchronization time for the first selected work unit path includes summing component and segment duration times along the first selected work unit path when the work unit flows through the second machine module to obtain a flow-through sum. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the second plurality of highway segments are arranged to enable the work unit to bypass the second off-ramp, second machine module, and second on-ramp. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein determining the default self-synchronization time for the first selected work unit path includes summing the segment duration times along the first selected work unit path when the work unit bypasses the second machine module to obtain a bypass sum and determining an absolute difference between the bypass sum and the flow-through sum. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the second plurality of highway segments are arranged to enable the work unit to flow through the second off-ramp, second machine module, and second on-ramp for at least one additional cycle. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the first and second plurality of highway segments are arranged to enable the work unit to serially flow through the first off-ramp, first machine module, first on-ramp, second off-ramp, second machine module, and second on-ramp for at least one additional cycle. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the configuration of components for a first work unit path includes a first transport highway, a first machine module associated with the first transport highway, first off-ramp and first on-ramp associated with the first machine module, a second transport highway, a second machine module associated with the second transport highway, second off-ramp and second on-ramp associated with the second machine module, the first and second transport highways including a plurality of highway segments arranged to enable a work unit to flow through either the first or second machine module. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein determining the default self-synchronization time for the first selected work unit path includes summing the component and segment duration times along the first selected work unit path when the work unit flows through the first machine module to obtain a first flow-through sum, summing the component and segment duration times along the first selected work unit path when the work unit flows through the second machine module to obtain a second flow-through sum, and determining an absolute difference between the first flow-through sum and the second flow-through sum. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the plurality of highway segments are arranged to enable the work unit to bypass both first and second machine modules. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein the plurality of highway segments are arranged to enable the work unit to flow through either the first or second machine module for at least one additional cycle. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein determining each adjusted self-synchronization time includes determining an adaptation time for the corresponding default self-synchronization time and allocating the adaptation time to the at least one component or segment duration time associated with the corresponding selected work unit path. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein determining the adaptation time includes determining a difference between i) a product of the multiple of the component duration time for the select machine module and a work unit rate for the select machine module and ii) the default self-synchronization time for the corresponding selected work unit path. 19. A method for self-synchronization of a modular production system, comprising: identifying a plurality of components arranged in a configuration providing a plurality of work unit paths for processing and transporting work units through the modular production system; selecting a work unit path through the modular production system by identifying a configuration of components associated with the work unit path, wherein the configuration of components includes at least one transport highway, at least one machine module, and at least two moving components associated with each machine module, each transport highway including a plurality of highway segments arranged to transfer work units along the work unit path; determining a component duration time for each machine module, moving component, and highway segment along the work unit path, wherein the component duration time comprises the elapsed time from receipt of a work unit at the component's input location to arrival of the work unit at the component's output location; determining a default self-synchronization time for the work unit path, wherein the default self-synchronization time comprises a sum of component duration times associated with the work unit path; and optimizing the default self-synchronization time to form an adjusted self-synchronization time for the work unit path by adjusting at least one component duration time associated with the work unit path, wherein the adjusted self-synchronization time comprises a multiple of the component duration time for a select machine module associated with the work unit path. 20. A system for self-synchronization of a modular production system, comprising: means for identifying a plurality of components arranged in a configuration providing a plurality of work unit paths for processing and transporting work units through the modular production system; means for selecting a work unit path through the modular production system by identifying a configuration of components associated with the work unit path, wherein the configuration of components includes at least one transport highway, at least one machine module, and at least two moving components associated with each machine module, each transport highway including a plurality of highway segments arranged to transfer work units along the work unit path; means for determining a component duration time for each machine module, moving component, and highway segment along the work unit path, wherein the component duration time comprises the elapsed time from receipt of a work unit at the component's input location to arrival of the work unit at the component's output location; means for determining a default self-synchronization time for the work unit path, wherein the default self-synchronization time comprises a sum of component duration times associated with the work unit path; and means for optimizing the default self-synchronization time to form an adjusted self-synchronization time for the work unit path by adjusting at least one component duration time associated with the work unit path, wherein the adjusted self-synchronization time comprises a multiple of the component duration time for a select machine module associated with the work unit path. 