A system, method and device for positioning a target located within soft tissue in a path of an instrument inserted into the soft tissue includes: a manipulation system including a plurality of force applicators positioned around the soft tissue containing the target; an image acquisition system including an imaging probe for obtaining data for generating an image of the soft tissue containing the target; a detection means for detecting deflection of the target using the data from the imaging probe; and a control means for actuating the plurality of force applicators to apply forces on the soft tissue in response to a detected deflection of the target to move the target back in line with the path of the instrument. In an exemplary embodiment, the soft tissue is a breast, the imaging probe is an ultrasound imaging probe, and the instrument is a biopsy needle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for positioning a target located within soft tissue, comprising: an instrument configured to be inserted into the soft tissue along a path; a manipulation system including a plurality of force applicators configured to be positioned around the soft tissue containing the target; an image acquisition system including an imaging probe for obtaining data for generating an image of the soft tissue containing the target; detection means for detecting deflection of the target using the data from the imaging probe; and a control means for actuating the plurality of force applicators to apply forces on the soft tissue in response to a detected deflection of the target to move the target back in line with the path of the instrument. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging probe is mounted on a drive mechanism for moving the imaging probe in at least two dimensions with respect to the soft tissue; and wherein the control means is further for actuating the drive mechanism to move the imaging probe to maintain contact with the soft tissue and to track the target if the target moves out of a field of view of the imaging probe. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an instrument guidance device for fixing the path of the instrument. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the instrument guidance device further has an instrument path sensor for measuring a characteristic of the path of the instrument; and wherein the control means utilizes the characteristic of the path of the instrument in actuating the plurality of force applicators to place the target in line with the path for insertion of the instrument. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the control means includes a target manipulation system controller for controlling the manipulation system, an image acquisition system controller for controlling the image acquisition system, and a high level supervisory controller for coordinating the target manipulation system controller and the image acquisition system controller based on events. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the control means further includes an interface between the high level supervisory controller, and the target manipulation system controller and the image acquisition system controller, the interface being for converting between continuous-time signals and sequences of symbols representing tasks. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the high level supervisory controller further has a process monitoring module for monitoring event information received from the target manipulation system controller and the image acquisition system controller via the interface, and a decision making module for determining tasks to implement in response to the events, and sending control commands to the target manipulation system controller and the image acquisition system controller via the interface. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the soft tissue is a breast. 9. A method for positioning a target located within soft tissue in a path of an instrument inserted into the soft tissue, comprising: identifying the target using an image acquisition system including an imaging probe for obtaining data for generating an image of the soft tissue containing the target; positioning the soft tissue containing the target in a manipulation system including a plurality of force applicators positioned around the soft tissue; inserting the instrument into the soft tissue; detecting deflection of the target using the data from the imaging probe; and actuating the plurality of force applicators to apply forces on the soft tissue in response to a detected deflection of the target to move the target back in line with the path of the instrument. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the imaging probe is mounted on a drive mechanism for moving the imaging probe to maintain contact with the soft tissue and to track the target if the target moves out of a field of view of the imaging probe. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein moving the imaging probe to track the target further includes locating the target by actuating the drive mechanism. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: detecting a loss of contact between the imaging probe and the soft tissue; and actuating the drive mechanism to reestablish contact between the imaging probe and the soft tissue. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the soft tissue is a breast. 14. A device for positioning a target located within soft tissue, comprising: an instrument configured to be inserted into the soft tissue along a path; a manipulation system including a plurality of force applicators configured to be positioned around the soft tissue containing the target; an image acquisition system including an imaging probe for obtaining data for generating an image of the soft tissue containing the target; an instrument guidance device for fixing the path of the instrument; detection means for detecting deflection of the target using the data from the imaging probe; and control means for actuating the plurality of force applicators to apply forces on the soft tissue in response to detecting a deflection of the target to move the target back in line with the path of the instrument. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the image acquisition system further includes a drive mechanism for moving the imaging probe; and wherein the control means is further for actuating the drive mechanism to move the imaging probe to maintain contact with the soft tissue and to track the target if the target moves out of a field of view of the imaging probe. 16. The device of claim 15, wherein the control means includes a manipulation system controller for controlling the manipulation system, an image acquisition system controller for controlling the image acquisition system, and a high level supervisory controller for coordinating the manipulation system controller and the image acquisition system controller based on events. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of force applicators includes an end effector positioned for engaging a surface of the soft tissue, an end effector actuator for effecting movement to the end effector, and an end effector position sensor for sensing a position of the end effector for use by the control means. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein the drive mechanism for moving the imaging probe moves the imaging probe in at least two dimensions and has an imaging probe position sensor for sensing a position of the imaging probe for use by the control means. 19. The device of claim 18, wherein the instrument guidance device has an instrument path sensor for sensing a characteristic of the path of the instrument for use by the control means. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the soft tissue is a breast, wherein the imaging probe is an ultrasound imaging probe, and wherein the instrument is a biopsy needle. 