A mapping module or path filtering module is arranged to identify admissible curved paths for which the vehicle is able to stop prior to reaching a detected obstacle in accordance with an observed translational velocity and an observed rotational velocity. A data processor determines a respective objective function for the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities associated with the admissible curved paths, where the objective function includes a curvature comparison term associated with the last curved path of the vehicle. A search engine or data processor selects preferential velocities, among the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities, with a superior value for its corresponding objective function. A path planning module or data processor determines the vehicular speed and trajectory for a path plan that avoids the obstacle consistent with the selected preferential velocities.
Claims The following is claimed: 1. A method for avoiding an obstacle, the method comprising: collecting sensor data on a relative position of an obstacle with respect to a vehicle; detecting an observed translational velocity and an observed rotational velocity of a vehicle; determining possible curved paths for the vehicle associated with candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities; identifying admissible curved paths for which the vehicle is able to stop prior to reaching the obstacle in accordance with the observed translational velocity and the observed rotational velocity; determining a respective objective function for the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities associated with the admissible curved paths, where the objective function is determined in accordance with the following equation: G(v,.omega.)=.alpha.*heading(v,.omega.)+.beta.*dist(v,.omega.)+.gamma.*ve- locity(v,.omega.)+.delta.*lastC(v,.omega.), where G(v,.omega.) is the objective function; .alpha., .beta., .gamma. are weights associated with alignment with the target heading, distance to the nearest obstacle and the velocity of travel, respectively; heading(v,.omega.) is a target heading function; dist(v,.omega.) is clearance function to provide adequate clearance between the vehicle and the obstacle; and velocity(v,.omega.) is velocity function; and lastC(v,.omega.) is the curvature comparison term or function; selecting preferential velocities, among the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities, with a superior value for its corresponding objective function; and determining a vehicular speed and trajectory for a path plan that avoids the obstacle consistent with the selected preferential velocities. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the curvature comparison term facilitates comparison of a proposed candidate curved path with the last curved path. 3. The method according to claim 2 wherein the curvature comparison term is weighted to adjust its relative contribution to the objective function. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein a high value of the curvature comparison term is awarded to a proposed candidate curved path that has the same sign or general lateral heading as the last curved path of the vehicle if an alignment of a current vehicular heading is within a maximum angular range with respect to the last vehicular heading of the last curved path. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the vehicle comprises a forestry harvesting machine for harvesting wood on a wooded lot and obstacles comprise tree trunks, stumps, and other objects on the wooded land. 6. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: identifying admissible curved paths as those associated with rotational and translational velocity pairs for which the vehicle is able to stop before it reaches a closest obstacle on a corresponding curvature of the curved path. 7. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: calculating a maximum safe speed for the vehicle to travel to prevent a collision between the vehicle and the obstacle from occurring within a certain time window. 8. The method according to claim 1 further comprising changing the trajectory of the vehicle by a predetermined angular heading offset to avoid the obstacle during a subsequent time interval prior to an anticipated collision. 9. A method for avoiding an obstacle, the method comprising: collecting sensor data on a relative position of an obstacle with respect to a vehicle; detecting an observed translational velocity and an observed rotational velocity of a vehicle; determining possible curved paths for the vehicle associated with candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities; identifying admissible curved paths for which the vehicle is able to stop prior to reaching the obstacle in accordance with the observed translational velocity and the observed rotational velocity; determining a respective objective function for the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities associated with the admissible curved paths, wherein the objective function is determined in accordance with the following equation: G(v,.omega.)=.sigma.(.alpha.*heading(v,.omega.)+.beta.*dist(v,.omega.)+.g- amma.*velocity(v,.omega.))+.delta.*lastC(v,.omega.), where G(v,.omega.) is the objective function, .sigma. is a smoothing function; .alpha., .beta., .gamma. are weights associated with alignment with the target heading, distance to the nearest obstacle and the velocity of travel, respectively; heading(v,.omega.) is a target heading function; dist(v,.omega.) is clearance function to provide adequate clearance between the vehicle and the obstacle; velocity(v,.omega.) is velocity function; and lastC(v,.omega.) the curvature comparison term or function; selecting preferential velocities, among the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities, with a superior value for its corresponding objective function; and determining a vehicular speed and trajectory for a path plan that avoids the obstacle consistent with the selected preferential velocities. 10. A system for avoiding an obstacle, the system comprising: a sensor for collecting sensor data on a relative position of an obstacle with respect to a vehicle; a velocity module for detecting an observed translational velocity and an observed rotational velocity of a vehicle; a mapping module for determining possible curved paths for the vehicle associated with candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities, the mapping module arranged to identify admissible curved paths for which the vehicle is able to stop prior to reaching the obstacle in accordance with the observed translational velocity and the observed rotational velocity; a data processor for determining a respective objective function for the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities associated with the admissible curved paths, where the objective function is determined in accordance with the following equation: G(v,.omega.)=.alpha.*heading(v,.omega.)+.beta.*dist(v,.omega.)+.gamma.*ve- locity(v,.omega.)+.delta.*lastC(v,.omega.), where G(v,.omega.) is the objective function; .alpha., .beta., .gamma. are weights associated with alignment with the target heading, distance to the nearest obstacle and the velocity of travel, respectively; heading(v,.omega.) is a target heading function; dist(v,.omega.) is clearance function to provide adequate clearance between the vehicle and the obstacle; and velocity(v,.omega.) is velocity function; and lastC(v,.omega.) is the curvature comparison term or function; a search engine for selecting preferential velocities, among the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities, with a superior value for its corresponding objective function; and a path planning module for determining a vehicular speed and trajectory for a path plan that avoids the obstacle consistent with the selected preferential velocities. 11. The system according to claim 10 wherein the curvature comparison term facilitates comparison of a proposed candidate curved path with the last curved path. 12. The system according to claim 11 wherein the curvature comparison term is weighted to adjust its relative contribution to the objective function. 13. The system according to claim 10 wherein a high value of the curvature comparison term is awarded to a proposed candidate curved path that has the same sign or general lateral heading as the last curved path of the vehicle if an alignment of a current vehicular heading is within a maximum angular range with respect to the last vehicular heading of the last curved path. 14. The system according to claim 10 wherein the vehicle comprises a forestry harvesting machine for harvesting wood on a wooded lot and obstacles comprise tree trunks, stumps, and other objects on the wooded land. 15. The system according to claim 10 further comprising: the mapping module arranged to identify admissible curved paths as those associated with rotational and translational velocity pairs for which the vehicle is able to stop before it reaches a closest obstacle on a corresponding curvature of the curved path. 16. The system according to claim 10 further comprising: the data processor arranged for calculating a maximum safe speed for the vehicle to travel to prevent a collision between the vehicle and the obstacle from occurring within a certain time window. 17. The system according to claim 10 further comprising: the path planning module adapted to change the trajectory of the vehicle by a predetermined angular heading offset to avoid the obstacle during a subsequent time interval prior to an anticipated collision. 18. A system for avoiding an obstacle the system comprising: a sensor for collecting sensor data on a relative position of an obstacle with respect to a vehicle; a velocity module for detecting an observed translational velocity and an observed rotational velocity of a vehicle; a mapping module for determining possible curved paths for the vehicle associated with candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities, the mapping module arranged to identify admissible curved paths for which the vehicle is able to stop prior to reaching the obstacle in accordance with the observed translational velocity and the observed rotational velocity; a data processor for determining a respective objective function for the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities associated with the admissible curved paths wherein the objective function is determined in accordance with the following equation: G(v,.omega.)=.sigma.(.alpha.*heading(v,.omega.)+.beta.*dist(v,.omega.)+.g- amma.*velocity(v,.omega.))+.delta.*lastC(v,.omega.), where G(v,.omega.) is the objective function, .sigma. is a smoothing function; .alpha., .beta., .gamma. are weights associated with alignment with the target heading, distance to the nearest obstacle and the velocity of travel, respectively; heading(v,.omega.) is a target heading function; dist(v,.omega.) is clearance function to provide adequate clearance between the vehicle and the obstacle; velocity(v,.omega.) is velocity function; and lastC(v,.omega.) the curvature comparison term or function; a search engine for selecting preferential velocities, among the candidate translational velocities and candidate rotational velocities, with a superior value for its corresponding objective function; and a path planning module for determining a vehicular speed and trajectory for a path plan that avoids the obstacle consistent with the selected preferential velocities. 