A method and apparatus for transmitting signals. An apparatus comprises a first cylinder, a second cylinder, a third cylinder, and a fourth cylinder. A first cylinder has a first number of conductive segments. The second cylinder has a second number of conductive segments. The first cylinder is located inside the second cylinder such that the first conductive segments remain in communication with corresponding ones of the second conductive segments during rotation of the first and second cylinders relative to each other. The third cylinder has a third number of conductive segments. The second cylinder is located inside of the third cylinder. The fourth cylinder has a fourth number of conductive segments. The third cylinder is located inside the fourth cylinder such that the third conductive segments remain in communication with corresponding ones of the fourth conductive segments during rotation of the third and fourth cylinders.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a first cylinder having a first number of conductive segments located on an outer surface of the first cylinder, wherein the first number of conductive segments is configured to conduct first signals, and the first cylinder has an axis of rotation extending through the first cylinder; a second cylinder having a second number of conductive segments located on an inner surface of the second cylinder, wherein the second number of conductive segments is configured to conduct the first signals, the second cylinder has the axis of rotation, and the first cylinder is located inside the second cylinder such that the first number of conductive segments remains in communication with corresponding ones of the second number of conductive segments during rotation of the first cylinder and the second cylinder relative to each other; a third cylinder having a third number of conductive segments located on an outer surface of the third cylinder, wherein the third number of conductive segments is configured to conduct second signals, the third cylinder has the axis of rotation extending through the third cylinder, and the second cylinder is located inside of the third cylinder; and a fourth cylinder having a fourth number of conductive segments located on an inner surface of the fourth cylinder, wherein the fourth number of conductive segments is configured to conduct the second signals, the fourth cylinder has the axis of rotation, and the third cylinder is located inside the fourth cylinder such that the third number of conductive segments remains in communication with corresponding ones of the fourth number of conductive segments during rotation of the third cylinder and the fourth cylinder relative to each other. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first number of conductive segments and the third number of conductive segments are ridges and the second number of conductive segments and the fourth number of conductive segments are grooves. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first number of conductive segments and the third number of conductive segments are grooves and the second number of conductive segments and the fourth number of conductive segments are ridges. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first number of conductive segments and the third number of conductive segments are conductive surfaces and the second number of conductive segments and the fourth number of conductive segments are brushes. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: insulating segments interspersed between the first number of conductive segments, the second number of conductive segments, the third number of conductive segments, and the fourth number of conductive segments. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a first number of connectors connected to the first number of conductive segments, wherein the first number of connectors is located on an end of the first cylinder; a second number of connectors connected to the second number of conductive segments, wherein the second number of connectors is located on an end of the second cylinder; a third number of connectors connected to the third number of conductive segments, wherein the third number of connectors is located on an end of the third cylinder; and a fourth number of connectors connected to the fourth number of conductive segments, wherein the fourth number of connectors is located on an end of the fourth cylinder. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a fifth cylinder having a fifth number of conductive segments located on an outer surface of the fifth cylinder in which the fifth number of conductive segments is configured to conduct third signals, the fifth cylinder having the axis of rotation extending through the fifth cylinder, and the fourth cylinder is located inside the fifth cylinder; and a sixth cylinder having a sixth number of conductive segments located on an inner surface of the sixth cylinder in which the sixth number of conductive segments is configured to conduct the third signals, wherein the sixth cylinder has the axis of rotation and the fifth cylinder is located inside the sixth cylinder such that corresponding ones of the fifth number of conductive segments remains in communication with corresponding ones of the sixth number of conductive segments during rotation of the fifth cylinder and the sixth cylinder relative to each other. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first cylinder and the third cylinder are associated with a first structure in a platform, the second cylinder and the fourth cylinder are associated with a second structure in the platform, and the first structure and the second structure rotate relative to each other. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first cylinder, the second cylinder, the third cylinder, and the fourth cylinder are part of a joint configured to moveably connect the first structure to the second structure. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first structure is an inertial measurement unit and the second structure is a structure that supports the inertial measurement unit. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising: the platform. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the platform is selected from one of a mobile platform, a stationary platform, a land-based structure, an aquatic-based structure, a space-based structure, an aircraft, a surface ship, a tank, a personnel carrier, a train, a spacecraft, a space station, a satellite, a submarine, an automobile, and a robot. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first signals and the second signals are selected from at least one of electrical signals and optical signals. 14. An electrical signal connector system comprising: a first cylinder having a first number of conductive segments located on an outer surface of the first cylinder and a first number of connectors electrically connected to the first number of conductive segments, wherein the first number of connectors is located on an end of the first cylinder, and the first number of conductive segments is configured to conduct first electrical signals; a second cylinder having a second number of conductive segments located on an inner surface of the second cylinder and a second number of connectors electrically connected to the second number of conductive segments, wherein the second number of connectors is located on an end of the second cylinder, the second number of conductive segments is configured to conduct the first electrical signals, the first cylinder is located inside and concentric to the second cylinder such that corresponding ones of the first number of conductive segments remains in electrical contact with corresponding ones of the second number of conductive segments during rotation of the first cylinder and the second cylinder relative to each other; a third cylinder having a third number of conductive segments located on an outer surface of the third cylinder and a third number of connectors electrically connected to the third number of conductive segments, wherein the third number of connectors is located on an end of the third cylinder, wherein the third number of conductive segments are configured to conduct second electrical signals, and the second cylinder is located inside and concentric to the third cylinder; and a fourth cylinder having a fourth number of conductive segments located on an inner surface of the fourth cylinder and a fourth number of connectors electrically connected to the fourth number of conductive segments, wherein the fourth number of connectors is located on an end of the fourth cylinder, and the fourth number of conductive segments is configured to conduct the second electrical signals, wherein the third cylinder is located inside and concentric to the fourth cylinder such that corresponding ones of the third number of conductive segments remains in electrical contact with corresponding ones of the fourth number of conductive segments during rotation of the third cylinder and the fourth cylinder relative to each other. 15. The electrical signal connector system of claim 14, wherein the first cylinder and the third cylinder are associated with a first structure in a platform, the second cylinder and the fourth cylinder are associated with a second structure in the platform, and the first structure and the second structure rotate relative to each other. 16. The electrical signal connector system of claim 15, wherein the first cylinder, the second cylinder, the third cylinder, and the fourth cylinder are part of a joint configured to moveably connect the first structure to the second structure. 17. The electrical signal connector system of claim 15, wherein the first structure is an inertial measurement unit and the second structure is a structure that supports the inertial measurement unit. 18. A method for transmitting signals, the method comprising: sending the signals from a first structure in a platform into a cylindrical slip ring system comprising a first cylinder having a first number of conductive segments located on an outer surface of the first cylinder, wherein the first number of conductive segments is configured to conduct first signals, and the first cylinder has an axis of rotation extending through the first cylinder; a second cylinder having a second number of conductive segments located on an inner surface of the second cylinder, wherein the second number of conductive segments is configured to conduct the first signals, the second cylinder has the axis of rotation, and the first cylinder is located inside the second cylinder such that the first number of conductive segments remains in communication with corresponding ones of the second number of conductive segments during rotation of the first cylinder and the second cylinder relative to each other; a third cylinder having a third number of conductive segments located on an outer surface of the third cylinder, wherein the third number of conductive segments is configured to conduct second signals, the third cylinder has the axis of rotation extending through the third cylinder, and the second cylinder is located inside of the third cylinder; and a fourth cylinder having a fourth number of conductive segments located on an inner surface of the fourth cylinder, wherein the fourth number of conductive segments is configured to conduct the second signals, the fourth cylinder has the axis of rotation, and the third cylinder is located inside the fourth cylinder such that the third number of conductive segments remains in communication with corresponding ones of the fourth number of conductive segments during rotation of the third cylinder and the fourth cylinder relative to each other; and responsive to receiving the first signals from the first structure at the cylindrical slip ring system, sending the first signals to a second structure in communication with the cylindrical slip ring system. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first cylinder and the third cylinder are associated with the first structure in the platform, the second cylinder and the fourth cylinder are associated with the second structure in the platform, and the first structure and the second structure rotate relative to each other. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the first cylinder, the second cylinder, the third cylinder, and the fourth cylinder are part of a joint configured to moveably connect the first structure to the second structure. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the first signals and the second signals are selected from at least one of electrical signals and optical signals. 