In one embodiment, an insertion axis of a robotic manipulator is provided, the insertion axis including a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm, and a carriage link movably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis, the carriage link including a remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver for wirelessly communicating with a main printed circuit assembly external to the insertion axis. A robotic surgical system including such an insertion axis and a method for wireless communication in the system are also provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A link assembly of a robotic manipulator, comprising: a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm, wherein the base link includes a clamp adapted to mount a cannula; an idler link slidably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly; and a carriage link slidably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, wherein the carriage link includes an instrument interface adapted to mount an instrument having an instrument shaft, wherein the carriage link and the idler link are configured for telescoping motion relative to the base link to move a distal end of the instrument shaft relative to the clamp, and wherein the carriage link includes a remote printed circuit assembly, a power source for the remote printed circuit assembly, and a transceiver for wirelessly communicating with a main printed circuit assembly external to the link assembly. 2. The link assembly of claim 1, wherein the remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver transmit data selected from the group consisting of a system state, a sterile adaptor state, and an instrument state. 3. The link assembly of claim 1, wherein the remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver transmit data selected from the group consisting of instrument identification, LED control, clutch button state, and Hall-effect sensor state. 4. The link assembly of claim 1, wherein the carriage link includes an LED indicator, and a manipulator clutch button. 5. The link assembly of claim 1, wherein the instrument interface is capable of mounting an instrument having an end effector selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 6. The link assembly of claim 1, wherein the power source includes a battery selected from the group consisting of a rechargeable battery and a disposable battery. 7. A link assembly of a robotic manipulator, comprising: a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm, wherein the base link includes a clamp adapted to mount a cannula; an idler link slidably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly; and a carriage link slidably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, wherein the carriage link includes an instrument interface adapted to mount an instrument having an instrument shaft, wherein the carriage link and the idler link are configured for telescoping motion relative to the base link to move a distal end of the instrument shaft relative to the clamp, wherein the carriage link includes a remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver for wirelessly communicating with a main printed circuit assembly external to the link assembly, and wherein the remote printed circuit assembly is coupled by a wire to a power source external to the link assembly. 8. A link assembly of a robotic manipulator, comprising: a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm, wherein the base link includes a clamp adapted to mount a cannula; an idler link slidably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly; and a carriage link slidably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, wherein the carriage link includes an instrument interface adapted to mount an instrument having an instrument shaft, wherein the carriage link and the idler link are configured for telescoping motion relative to the base link to move a distal end of the instrument shaft relative to the clamp, wherein the carriage link includes a remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver for wirelessly communicating with a main printed circuit assembly external to the link assembly, and wherein a contact brush and a contact track apparatus is between the base link and the carriage link for providing power to the remote printed circuit assembly from a remote power source outside of the link assembly. 9. A robotic surgical manipulator system, comprising: a manipulator arm including a main printed circuit assembly and transceiver; a link assembly operably coupled to a distal end of the manipulator arm, the link assembly including: a base link having a clamp adapted to mount a cannula, an idler link slidably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly, and a carriage link slidably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an instrument interface, a remote printed circuit assembly, a power source for the remote printed circuit assembly, and a transceiver for wirelessly communicating with the main printed circuit assembly, wherein the instrument interface is adapted to mount an instrument having an instrument shaft, and wherein the carriage link and the idler link are configured for telescoping motion relative to the base link to move a distal end of the instrument shaft relative to the clamp; a sterile adaptor coupled to the instrument interface; and an instrument coupled to the sterile adapter, wherein the remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver wirelessly transmit data of a sterile adaptor state and an instrument state to the main printed circuit assembly. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver transmit data including a system state. 11. The system in of claim 9, wherein the carriage link includes an LED indicator and a manipulator clutch button. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the instrument includes an end effector selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the power source includes a battery selected from the group consisting of a rechargeable battery and a disposable battery. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the sterile adaptor is operably coupled between the instrument interface and the instrument. 15. A robotic surgical manipulator system, comprising: a manipulator arm including a main printed circuit assembly and transceiver; a link assembly operably coupled to a distal end of the manipulator arm, the link assembly including: a base link having a clamp adapted to mount a cannula, an idler link slidably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly, and a carriage link slidably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an instrument interface, and a remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver for wirelessly communicating with the main printed circuit assembly, wherein the instrument interface is adapted to mount an instrument having an instrument shaft, wherein the remote printed circuit assembly is coupled by a wire to a remote power source outside of the link assembly, and wherein the carriage link and the idler link are configured for telescoping motion relative to the base link to move a distal end of the instrument shaft relative to the clamp; a sterile adaptor coupled to the instrument interface; and an instrument coupled to the sterile adapter, wherein the remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver wirelessly transmit data of a sterile adaptor state and an instrument state to the main printed circuit assembly. 16. A robotic surgical manipulator system, comprising: a manipulator arm including a main printed circuit assembly and transceiver; a link assembly operably coupled to a distal end of the manipulator arm, the link assembly including: a base link having a clamp adapted to mount a cannula, an idler link slidably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly, a carriage link slidably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an instrument interface, and a remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver for wirelessly communicating with the main printed circuit assembly, wherein the instrument interface is adapted to mount an instrument having an instrument shaft, and wherein the carriage link and the idler link are configured for telescoping motion relative to the base link to move a distal end of the instrument shaft relative to the clamp, and a contact brush and a contact track apparatus between the base link and the carriage link for providing power to the remote printed circuit assembly from a remote power source outside of the link assembly; a sterile adaptor coupled to the instrument interface; and an instrument coupled to the sterile adapter, wherein the remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver wirelessly transmit data of a sterile adaptor state and an instrument state to the main printed circuit assembly. 17. A method of wireless communication in a robotic surgical system, comprising: providing a manipulator arm including a main printed circuit assembly and transceiver; providing a link assembly operably coupled to a distal end of the manipulator arm, the link assembly including: a base link having a clamp adapted to mount a cannula, an idler link slidably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis of the link assembly, and a carriage link slidably coupled to the idler link along the lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an instrument interface and a remote printed circuit assembly and transceiver, wherein the instrument interface is adapted to mount an instrument having an instrument shaft, and wherein the carriage link and the idler link are configured for telescoping motion relative to the base link to move a distal end of the instrument shaft relative to the clamp; coupling a sterile adaptor to the instrument interface; coupling an instrument to the sterile adaptor; powering the remote printed circuit assembly with a power source external or internal to the link assembly; and transmitting data of a sterile adaptor state and an instrument state wirelessly from the remote printed circuit assembly to the main printed circuit assembly. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the transmitted data includes a system state. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising powering the remote printed circuit assembly with a power source including a battery selected from the group consisting of a rechargeable battery and a disposable battery. 