An energy absorbing device suitable for wearing by humans, or for use in a prosthetic device or robot is provided. The device including support structures which may conform to the contours of limbs, and have the capability of being removeably attached to the limbs. Plates are attached, either fixedly or slideably, to the support structures and adjacent ends of plates may be joined with a flexible link. As the limbs flex at a joint, the slideably attached plate slides to accommodate the rotational motion between the limbs at the joint.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for protecting a limb of a person, comprising: a flexible sleeve; a first plate fixedly attached to the sleeve; a second plate attached to the sleeve so as to be movable in a longitudinal direction with respect to the limb; and a hinge or a flexible member connection between adjacent ends of the first plate and the second plate, wherein the first plate further comprises a multi-layer structure having a durable outer surface layer, and an inner energy absorbing layer. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the sleeve is approximately a portion of a conical section. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the first plate and the second plate are sized and shaped to approximately conform to the shape of a human body part. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the outer surface layer is one of COOLMAX, neoprene, perforated LYCRA, ballistic NYLON, or stretch fabric. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the inner energy absorbing layer is one of a gel, an energy absorbing foam, or a memory foam. 6. The device according to claim 5, wherein the energy absorbing foam is a BROCK foam. 7. The device according to claim 2, wherein the sleeve has a strap dimensioned to affix the sleeve to a body part. 8. The device according to claim 7, wherein the strap has a self-gripping portion. 9. The device according to claim 7, wherein the strap attached to a first side of the sleeve and a loop attached to a second side of the sleeve. 10. The device according to claim 9, wherein the strap includes a self-gripping material. 11. The device according to claim 7, wherein a first strap is attached to a first side of the first sleeve and a second strap is attached to a second side of the first sleeve. 12. The device according to claim 1, where the sleeve is comprised of a material which is conformable to a human body part. 13. The device according to claim 12, wherein apertures are provided in the sleeve material. 14. The device according to claim 12, wherein the sleeve is a multilayer assembly. 15. The device according to claim 14, wherein a layer of the multilayer assembly is an energy absorbing material. 16. The device according to claim 15, wherein the energy absorbing material is one of cellular foam, memory foam, or BROCK foam. 17. The device according to claim 1, wherein the second plate includes an engaging structure for slideably mating with a complimentary mating structure on a plate slide member. 18. The device according to claim 17, wherein the engaging structure is a rail having a "T" shape, the bottom of the "T" attached to the surface of the slideably attached plate. 19. The device according to claim 18, wherein the complimentary mating structure is a groove having a top lip, sized such that the top of the "T" structure is retained therein. 20. The device according to claim 17, wherein the engaging structure and the complimentary mating structure are sized such that, for the materials selected, the engaging structure and the complimentary mating structure disengage when a predetermined force is applied parallel to a principal plane of second attached plate. 21. The device according to claim 1, wherein the flexible member is molded of a flexible material and is attached to the first and the second plates by at least one of riveting, adhering, mechanical interlocking, or thermal bonding. 22. The device according to claim 21, wherein the flexure is over-molded on at least a part of the first or the second plates. 23. The device according to claim 1, comprising: a third plate fixedly attached to the sleeve and disposed such that an end of the second plate distal from the first plate overlaps an adjacent end of the third plate. 24. The device according to claim 23, wherein the adjacent overlapping ends have complimentary forms. 25. The device according to claim 1, wherein the first and second plates are sized and shaped to approximately correspond to the surface shape of a human body part. 26. The device according to claim 1, wherein an energy absorbing material is disposed between an upper surface of at least one of the first or second plates and a surface of the sleeve furthest from the at least one of the first or the second plates. 27. The device according to claim 1, wherein the energy absorbing material is a surface of the sleeve furthest from at least one of the first plate or the second plate. 28. The device according to claim 1, wherein the sleeve is a plurality of sleeves. 29. A method of protecting a body part, the method comprising: providing a flexible sleeve; fixedly attaching a first plate to the sleeve; attaching a second plate to the sleeve so that the second plate is slideable in a direction longitudinal to the body part when the sleeve is worn by a user; connecting the first plate and the second plate using a flexible member or hinge; attaching a third plate to the sleeve so that the third plate is slideable in a direction longitudinal to the body part when the sleeve is worn by a user; and connecting the first plate and the second plate using a flexible member or hinge. 30. An articulated exoskeleton, comprising: a first plate slide member fixedly connected to a first structural member; a second plate slide member fixedly connected to a second structural member; a first and a second slideable plate, captivated to the first and second slide plate members, respectively; a flexible connection or a hinge disposed between the adjacent ends of the first slideable plate and the second slideable plate; wherein the first slide plate member and second slide plate member are rotationally joined and articulated about an axis approximately parallel to planes of the first slide plate member and the second slide plate member such that the first slideable plate and the second slideable plate are movable with respect to the first and the second slide plate members, respectively, in a direction orthogonal to the axis of rotation of the hinge, or the bending axis of the flexible connection. 31. The articulated exoskeleton of claim 30, wherein a plate is disposed between the first slideable plate and the second slideable plate, and the flexible connection or the hinge is disposed between the plate and adjacent ends of the first and second slideable plates, respectively. 32. The articulated exoskeleton of claim 30, wherein the axis is an axle. 33. An assembly, comprising: a first plate slide member fixedly connected to a flexible sleeve; a second plate slide member fixedly connected to the sleeve; a first and a second slideable plate, captivated by the first and second slide plate members, respectively; wherein the first slide plate member and second slide plate member are rotationally joined and articulated about an axis approximately parallel to planes of the first slide plate member and the second slide plate member, and the first and the second slideable plates are movable with respect to the sleeve in a direction orthogonal to the axis. 34. The assembly according to claim 33 wherein a plate is disposed between the first slideable plate and the second slideable plate, and sized such that the plate overlaps portions of the first slide plate member and the second slide plate member. 35. A device for protecting a limb of a person, comprising: a flexible sleeve; a first plate fixedly attached to the sleeve; a second plate adapted to be slideably attached to the sleeve; a hinge or flexible member connection between adjacent ends of the first plate and the second plate; a third plate adapted to be slideably attached to the sleeve; and a hinge or flexible member connection between adjacent ends of the first plate and the third plate. 36. The assembly according to claim 33, wherein the first slide plate member and second slide plate member are rotationally joined by a journal connection. 37. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the flexible member is fixedly attached to the first plate and the second plate. 38. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the second plate is adapted to move slideably with respect to the sleeve when worn by a person. 39. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the hinge or flexible member connection is a hinge connection. 40. The device according to claim 35, wherein the sleeve has a strap dimensioned to affix the sleeve to a body part. 41. The device according to claim 40, wherein the strap has a self-gripping portion. 42. The device according to claim 40, wherein the strap attached to a first side of the sleeve and a loop attached to a second side of the sleeve. 43. The device according to claim 42, wherein the strap includes a self-gripping material. 44. The device according to claim 35, wherein a first strap is attached to a first side of the first sleeve and a second strap is attached to a second side of the first sleeve. 