The present invention provides a surgical manipulator which is capable of manipulating a surgical or medical tool in up to six degrees of freedom. The manipulator has a haptic interface and an associated position sensing system. A controller is provided that can be used to adjust movement information from the haptic interface based on the relative orientations of the manipulator and the haptic interface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing a medical procedure on a body of a patient comprising the steps of: supporting a medical tool with a manipulator capable of moving the medical tool with at least one degree of freedom; supporting the manipulator relative to the patient's body so as to define a manipulator coordinate reference frame; supporting a haptic interface relative to the patient's body so as to define a master coordinate reference frame; determining a desired patient coordinate reference frame; collecting data on the relative orientations of the haptic interface coordinate reference frame, the manipulator coordinate reference frame and the patient coordinate reference frame; inputting movement commands for the medical tool through movement of an input device of the haptic interface; generating master coordinate reference frame movement information based on the movement commands; adjusting the haptic interface coordinate reference frame movement information using the relative orientation data to produce movement instructions for the manipulator; communicating the movement instructions to the manipulator. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of collecting data on the relative orientations of the haptic interface, manipulator and patient coordinate reference frames is performed at least in part using electromagnetic tracking. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of collecting data on the relative orientations of the haptic interface, manipulator and patient coordinate reference frames is performed at least in part using optical triangulation. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of collecting data on the relative orientations of the haptic interface, manipulator and patient coordinate reference frames is performed at least in part using trilateration. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the desired patient coordinate reference frame is defined relative to a body tissue of the patient. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the desired patient coordinate reference frame has the same orientation as the haptic interface coordinate reference frame. 7. A manipulator for use in performing medical procedures on a portion of a body of a patient, comprising: a medical tool; a positioning mechanism for carrying the medical tool and for moving the medical tool with at least one degree of freedom; a haptic interface for receiving movement commands for the positioning mechanism and generating movement information based on the movement commands; a three-dimensional position sensing system for sensing an orientation of a coordinate reference frame of the positioning mechanism and an orientation of a coordinate reference frame of the haptic interface; and a controller for receiving the movement information from the haptic interface, adjusting the movement information based on the sensed orientation of the positioning mechanism coordinate reference frame and the haptic interface coordinate reference frame and an orientation of a desired patient coordinate reference frame, and directing movement of the medical tool by the positioning mechanism based on the adjusted movement information. 8. The manipulator of claim 7 wherein the position sensing system uses electromagnetic tracking. 9. The manipulator of claim 7 wherein the position sensing system uses optical triangulation. 10. The manipulator of claim 7 wherein the position sensing system uses trilateration. 11. The manipulator of claim 7 wherein the positioning mechanism can move the medical tool with six degrees of freedom. 12. A method for performing a medical procedure on a body of a patient comprising the steps of: supporting a medical tool with a manipulator capable of moving the medical tool with at least one degree of freedom; supporting the manipulator relative to the patient's body so as to define a manipulator coordinate reference frame; supporting a master relative to the patient's body so as to define a master coordinate reference frame; defining a patient coordinate reference frame relative to a body tissue of the patient; collecting data on the relative orientations of the master coordinate reference frame, the manipulator coordinate reference frame and the patient reference frame; monitoring movement of the patient body tissue used to define the patient coordinate reference frame on a real time basis and updating the relative orientation data on a real time basis based on the movement of the patient body tissue; inputting movement commands for the medical tool through movement of an input device of the master; generating master coordinate reference frame movement information based on the movement commands; adjusting the master coordinate reference frame movement information using the relative orientation data to produce movement instructions for the manipulator; and communicating the movement instructions to the manipulator. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of collecting data on the relative orientations of the haptic interface, manipulator and patient coordinate reference frames is performed at least in part using electromagnetic tracking. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of collecting data on the relative orientations of the haptic interface, manipulator and patient coordinate reference frames is performed at least in part using optical triangulation. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of collecting data on the relative orientations of the haptic interface, manipulator and patient coordinate reference frames is performed at least in part using trilateration. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the body tissue comprises bone. 17. A manipulator for use in performing medical procedures on a portion of a body of a patient, comprising: a medical tool; a positioning mechanism for carrying the medical tool and for moving the medical tool with at least one degree of freedom; a haptic interface for receiving movement commands for the positioning mechanism and generating movement information based on the movement commands; a three-dimensional position sensing system for sensing an orientation of a coordinate reference frame of the positioning mechanism and an orientation of a coordinate reference frame of the haptic interface and a position of a patient tissue, the sensing system continuously monitoring the position of the patient tissue in real time; and a controller for receiving the movement information from the haptic interface, adjusting the movement information based on the sensed orientation of the positioning mechanism coordinate reference frame and the haptic interface coordinate reference frame, the real time position of the patient tissue and an orientation of a desired patient coordinate reference frame, and directing movement of the medical tool by the positioning mechanism based on the adjusted movement information. 18. The manipulator of claim 17 wherein the position sensing system uses electromagnetic tracking. 19. The manipulator of claim 17 wherein the position sensing system uses optical triangulation. 20. The manipulator of claim 17 wherein the position sensing system uses trilateration. 21. The manipulator of claim 17 wherein the positioning mechanism can move the medical tool with six degrees of freedom. 