Method and systems are disclosed for radiating a moving target inside a heart. The method includes acquiring sequential volumetric representations of an area of the heart and defining a target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region in 3D for a first of the representations. The target tissue region and/or radiation sensitive structure region are identified for another of the representations by an analysis of the area of the heart from the first representation and the other representation. Radiation beams to the target tissue region are fired in response to the identified target tissue region and/or radiation sensitive structure region from the other representation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of radiating a moving target inside a heart, the method comprising: A acquiring sequential volumetric representations of an area of the heart; B defining a target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region in 3-dimensions (3D) for a first of the representations; C identifying the target tissue region and/or radiation sensitive structure region for another of the representations by an analysis of the area of the heart from the first representation and the other representation, including expanding the target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region with a margin based on the motion of the target tissue region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region; and D firing radiation beams to the target tissue region in response to the identified target tissue region and/or radiation sensitive structure region from the other representation per a dose calculation; wherein the margin used has been drawn to contain the full tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region some fraction of the time, and wherein the dose calculation is altered based on the fraction of the time the full tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region is contained within the margin. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein steps B and/or C include using a method selected from the group of: (1) volume rendering, (2) maximum intensity projection, (3) minimum intensity projection, (4) X-ray projection, (5) haptic feedback, (6) virtual fly-through, (7) stereoscopic 3D rendering and, (8) virtual reality. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein steps B and/or C include outlining contours of the target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region in 3D. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the margin used includes the full motion of the tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein margins are drawn for more than one fraction. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises heart muscle extending through a wall of the heart from a first surface to a second surface, and wherein steps B and/or C include visualizing through the heart muscle in 3D so as to ensure transmurality of the target. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising registering an electrogram to the CT volumes. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequential volumetric representations are acquired over one cardiac cycle. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequential volumetric representations are acquired over one respiratory cycle. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein firing radiation beams to the target tissue region includes firing a series of radiation beams along different trajectories from outside the patient and through intervening tissue toward the target tissue region. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of steps A, B, C, D include a processor configured with machine-readable code embodying instructions for performing the step. 12. A method of radiating a moving target inside a heart, the method comprising: A acquiring sequential volumetric representations of an area of the heart; B defining a target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region in 3-dimensions (3D); C expanding the target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region with a margin based on a motion of the target tissue region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region; and D firing radiation beams to the target tissue region in response based on the margin, wherein the margin used has been drawn to contain the full tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region some fraction of the time, and wherein a dose calculation is altered based on the fraction of the time the full tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region is contained within the margin. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the margin includes the full motion of the tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein margins are drawn for more than one fraction. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the motion is based on a cardiac cycle and/or a respiratory cycle. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the motion is based on an estimate of a cardiac cycle and/or a respiratory cycle. 17. The method of claim 12, further comprising computing a dose distribution based on the margin. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein steps B and/or C include using a method selected from the group of: (1) volume rendering, (2) maximum intensity projection, (3) minimum intensity projection, (4) X-ray projection, (5) haptic feedback, (6) virtual fly-through, (7) stereoscopic 3D rendering, (8) virtual reality, and (9) multi-planar, oblique and curved reconstructions. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein steps B and/or C include outlining contours of the target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region in 3D. 20. The method of claim 12, wherein the sequential volumetric representations are acquired over one cardiac cycle. 21. The method of claim 12, wherein the sequential volumetric representations are acquired over one respiratory cycle. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein firing radiation beams to the target tissue region includes firing a series of radiation beams along different trajectories. 23. A system for radiating a moving target inside a heart, the system comprising: a volume acquisition system for acquiring sequential volumetric representations of an area of the heart; a processor coupled to the image acquisition system, the processor configured for: defining the target tissue region and/or critical structure region in 3-dimensions (3D); expanding the target tissue region and/or a radiation sensitive structure region with a margin based on a motion of the target tissue region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region; computing a dose distribution; a robot coupled to the processor; and a radiation beam source supported by the robot and coupled to the processor; the processor being configured with machine-readable code embodying instructions for firing a series of the radiation beams from the radiation source so as to treat the target tissue region based on the margin, wherein the margin used has been drawn to contain the full tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region some fraction of the time, and wherein a dose calculation is altered based on the fraction of the time the full tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region is contained within the margin. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the margin includes the full motion of the tissue target region and/or the radiation sensitive structure region. 25. The system of claim 23, wherein margins are drawn for more than one fraction. 26. The system of claim 23, wherein defining the target tissue region and/or critical structure region in 3D is selected from the group of: (1) volume rendering, (2) maximum intensity projection, (3) minimum intensity projection, (4) X-ray projection, (5) haptic feedback, (6) virtual fly-through, (7) stereoscopic 3D rendering, (8) virtual reality and (9) multi-planar, oblique and curved reconstructions. 27. The system of claim 23, wherein the volume acquisition system is capable of acquiring a plurality of volumes of the tissue over a cardiac cycle and/or respiratory cycle. 28. The system of claim 23, wherein firing a series of the radiation beams includes different trajectories from outside the patient and through intervening tissue toward the target tissue region. 