A releasable latch has a latched condition latching two parts together of an unlatched condition releasing one part for movement relative to another part. A base (20) is fixed to one of the parts and a catch (22) is supported by the base (20) and movable relative to the base to latch and unlatch the parts. A spring (72) biases the catch (22) to a position latching the parts together. A method of making the latch (10) includes the steps of molding the base (20) of the latch (10) of a first plastic material, molding a handle (24) to the base (20) to form an assembled unit of a second plastic material, molding the catch (22) to the molded base (20) and handle (24) to form a molded assembly in a mold of the handle (24), base (20) and catch (22), of a third plastic material.
Claims Having described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A releasable latch having a latched condition latching two parts together and an unlatched condition releasing the cover for movement relative to another part, said releasable latch comprising: a base molded of a first plastic material; a handle supported by said base and being movable relative to said base to latch and unlatch said parts, said handle being molded of a second plastic material different than said first plastic material; a catch supported by said base and said handle to form a molded assembly, said catch being movable to the unlatched condition relative to said base by movement of said handle, said catch being molded of a third plastic material different than said first plastic material and different than said second plastic material, said first plastic material, said second plastic material, and said third plastic material each having different and dissimilar properties such that said base, said handle, and said catch are unlikely to adhere to each other during the molding of said base, said handle, and said catch. 2. The releasable latch according to claim 1 further comprising a spring for biasing said catch to a latched condition, said spring being molded of said third plastic material. 3. The releasable latch according to claim 2 wherein the third plastic material has a lower melting point than the first and second plastic materials. 4. The releasable latch according to claim 2 wherein the first, second and third plastic materials have chemical properties which prevent the materials from adhering to each other or bonding to each other. 5. The releasable latch according to claim 1 wherein the second plastic material has a lower melting point than the first plastic material. 6. The releasable latch according to claim 1 further comprising a spring for biasing said catch to a latched condition, said spring being made of metal. 