One example of surgical apparatus for treating tissue may include an effector including at least two jaws movable toward one another, where the effector holds and is configured to deploy a of clips in a clip application mode, and where the jaws are configured to deliver energy to coagulate tissue in a coagulation mode, where said effector is switchable between clip application mode and coagulation mode. Another example of surgical apparatus for treating tissue may include an effector holding clips, and two fingers movable toward one another to close the clips one at a time, where each finger is a different pole of a bipolar coagulator. An exemplary method for treating tissue with a surgical apparatus may include placing the surgical apparatus adjacent to tissue at a location, selecting one of a plurality of operational modes of the surgical apparatus, where the operational modes include clip application mode and coagulation mode, and actuating the surgical apparatus according to the selected operational mode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Surgical apparatus for treating tissue, comprising: an effector including at least two jaws movable toward one another; wherein said effector holds and is configured to deploy a plurality of clips in a clip application mode; and wherein said jaws are configured to deliver energy to coagulate tissue in a coagulation mode; wherein said effector is switchable between clip application mode and coagulation mode; and wherein said clip application mode and said coagulation mode are mutually exclusive, such that a single actuation of said effector causes said effector to perform in only one said mode. 2. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; wherein each said jaw is one pole of a bipolar coagulator. 3. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; wherein each jaw includes at least one finger extending therefrom, wherein said fingers are movable toward one another to serially compress clips therebetween. 4. The surgical apparatus of claim 3, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising at least one coagulation surface positioned on each said finger. 5. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising at least one wire connected to each coagulation surface whereby energy is delivered to said coagulation surface. 6. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising a handle connected to said effector, said handle including a master switch, wherein said master switch switches said effector between clip application mode and coagulation mode. 7. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising a trigger connected to said handle, said trigger actuable to cause said effector to deploy one said clip at a time. 8. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising a switch connected to said handle, said switch actuable to deliver energy to said jaws to coagulate tissue. 9. The surgical apparatus of claim 8, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising a lock connected to said handle, wherein said switch is not actuable until said lock is engaged. 10. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising a handle, a shaft attached to said effector and rotatably coupled to said handle; and a dial in said handle, said dial coupled to said shaft, whereby rotation of said dial rotates said shaft relative to said handle. 11. A method for treating tissue with a surgical apparatus, comprising: placing the surgical apparatus adjacent to tissue at a location; selecting one of a plurality of operational modes of the surgical apparatus, wherein said operational modes include clip application mode and coagulation mode; and actuating said surgical apparatus according to the operational mode selected in said selecting; wherein said actuating causes said effector to perform only one of said clip application mode and said coagulation mode. 12. The method of claim 11, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising placing said surgical apparatus adjacent to tissue at a different location, and repeating said selecting and said actuating. 13. The method of claim 11, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; wherein each said operational mode is actuated by a different actuator on the surgical apparatus. 14. The method of claim 11, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; further comprising, after said selecting one of a plurality of operational modes, locking out the remainder of said operational modes. 15. The method of claim 11, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; wherein said coagulation mode is bipolar coagulation. 16. The method of claim 11, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; wherein said actuating includes compressing tissue with said surgical apparatus. 17. The method of claim 11, incorporating by reference all of the elements of that claim; wherein said selecting is performed after said placing. 