A combination of a dry oxidizing, wet etching, and wet cleaning processes are used to remove particle defects from a wafer after ion implantation, as part of a wafer bonding process to fabricate a SOI wafer. The particle defects on the topside and the backside of the wafer are oxidized, in a dry strip chamber, with an energized gas. In a wet clean chamber, the backside of the wafer is treated with an etchant solution to remove completely or partially a thermal silicon oxide layer, followed by exposure of the topside and the backside to a cleaning solution. The cleaning solution contains ammonium hydroxide, hydrogen peroxide, DI water, and optionally a chelating agent, and a surfactant. The wet clean chamber is integrated with the dry strip chamber and contained in a single wafer processing system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to clean a wafer after ion implantation, the method comprising: flowing an energized reactive species for about 120 seconds, in a dry strip chamber, to a topside and a backside of the wafer to oxidize particle defects, the topside and backside each having a silicon oxide layer; rinsing, in a wet clean chamber, the topside with DI water; etching, in the wet clean chamber, the backside of the wafer with about 2.5% by weight hydrofluoric acid to remove the silicon oxide layer; exposing the topside and the backside with a wet cleaning solution comprising ammonium hydroxide, hydrogen peroxide, and DI water; and etching, in the wet clean chamber, the backside of the wafer with about 0.15% weight hydrofluoric acid. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein with DI water to the topside and the 2.5% by weight hydrofluoric acid to the backside are dispensed simultaneously in the wet clean chamber. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein etching further comprises dispensing the cleaning solution to the topside and the backside simultaneously. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the particle defects are oxidized prior to etching the backside with 2.5% by weight hydrofluoric acid to remove the silicon oxide layer on the backside. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein exposing further comprises agitating the topside and backside with about 1000 W of megasonic energy. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising rinsing and drying the wafer prior to etching the backside of the wafer with the about 0.15% weight hydrofluoric acid. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising etching, in the wet clean chamber, the topside and the backside of the wafer with about 0.15% weight hydrofluoric acid. 