A robotic ocean farm includes a plant support means such as a grid, with a submersible towing system incorporating means for navigation of the support grid in the open ocean, and means for positioning of the support grid in a first surfaced position for sunlight exposure of the plants and a second submerged position for nutrient gathering by the plants. The submersible towing system incorporates one or more tow boats connected to a forward periphery of the grid, each of the tow boats incorporating a propulsion system for navigation of the grid and maintaining lateral tension in the forward periphery of the grid. Additionally, one or more reaction boats are connected to an aft periphery of the grid. Each of the reaction boats incorporates a propulsion system for maintaining lateral tension in the aft periphery of the grid and reacting in concert with the tow boats to maintain longitudinal tension in the grid. A system for harvesting multiple independently operating farms incorporates a harvesting station which is placed or positions itself to meet the farms at predetermined locations during their voyage to harvest and replenish the plants carried on the farm grid. Base stations, separately or as a part of the harvesting station, communicate with the farms provide mutual support and informational exchange for optimized operation of the farms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for ocean farming comprising the steps of: providing a plant support grid and a submersible towing system with a plurality of boats having means for navigation of the support grid in the open ocean, and means for positioning of the support grid in a first surfaced position for sunlight exposure of the plants and a second submerged position at a depth for a nutrient rich layer above the bottom for nutrient gathering by the plants; positioning the plant support grid in a predetermined operating sailing pattern; submerging the plant support grid in the night-time by allowing water to enter ballast tanks of each boat until penetration of a boundary to the nutrient-rich layer allowing the plants engaged to the farm support structure to infuse the nutrients; surfacing the plant support grid at approximately dawn; and navigating the plant support grid on the surface to allow photosynthesis by the plants on the support grid. 2. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the sailing pattern follows the large-scale open-ocean circulation patterns to obtain assistance from the naturally occurring currents to facilitate the voyage of the plant support grid and the submersible towing system. 3. The method as defined in claim 1 after the step of submerging further comprising the step of adjusting buoyancy to remain below the boundary to the nutrient-rich layer. 4. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the submersible towing system includes at least two tow boats having an adjustable sail and keel for aerodynamic and hydrodynamic shear force resolution for directional thrust and the step of submerging is followed by the step of navigating while submerged by depth control to allow precise placement of hulls of the tow boats and, primarily, the keel in one local layer with the sail rising into an adjoining local layer, separated by a transition in a density gradient. 5. The method as defined in claim 4 wherein a portion of the step of surfacing comprises the steps of: penetrating the surface with a sail tip, exposing wind speed and direction sensors; if the measured wind speed is at an unsafe level, submerging again without exposing the full sail to the wind; if the wind speed is safe, fully exposing the entire sail to the wind; employing the wind direction sensor through a control computer to activate a gear drive to point the sail in the correct direction as it comes out of the water, to ensure that no excessive forces are put on the sail, the keel, or the grid. 6. The method as defined in claim 4 wherein the submersible towing system further comprises at least two reaction boats connected to opposite extents of an aft periphery of the grid and further comprising the steps of: maintaining lateral tension in the aft periphery of the grid using the reaction boats; and reacting in concert with the tow boats to maintain longitudinal tension in the grid. 7. The method as defined in claim 1 wherein the step of surfacing further comprises the steps of: sensing as the farm approaches the surface the possibility of conflicting ocean systems that could damage the support grid and towing system such as approaching ships, and staying submerged at a safe depth until the conflicting ocean system passes. 8. The method as defined in claim 7 wherein the plurality of boats comprises a plurality of robotic boats each having acoustic sensing and further comprising as a portion of the step of sensing comparing the phase of arrival of acoustic data between the robotic boats at corners of the support grid for accurate directional information of the conflicting ocean system. 