The invention described herein provides systems and methods for multi-modal imaging with light and a second form of imaging. Light imaging involves the capture of low intensity light from a light-emitting object. A camera obtains a two-dimensional spatial distribution of the light emitted from the surface of the subject. Software operated by a computer in communication with the camera may then convert two-dimensional spatial distribution data from one or more images into a three-dimensional spatial representation. The second imaging mode may include any imaging technique that compliments light imaging. Examples include magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computer topography (CT). An object handling system moves the object to be imaged between the light imaging system and the second imaging system, and is configured to interface with each system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for providing multiple types of imaging data for an internal portion of an object, the system comprising: a light imaging system for providing light data related to light emitted from a light source located inside the object, the light imaging system including: an imaging chamber comprising an interior cavity a first light seal disposed on an exterior wall thereof, and a camera configured to capture the light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity; a second imaging system configured to provide imaging data for the internal portion of the object and having a receiving area that allows the internal portion to be imaged while the object is in the receiving area; and an object handling system adapted to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system, wherein the object handling system is configured to move the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber when the imaging chamber is sealed in a light tight manner, wherein the object handling system includes: a portable stage that is adapted to support the object, a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system, and a second light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the first light seal on the exterior wall of the light imaging system to produce a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the object handling system is configured to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system without substantially moving the object on the portable stage. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a gas delivery system configured to deliver an anesthesia gas to at least one gas delivery outlet that provides the anesthesia gas to the object while the object rests on the portable stage. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the second imaging system is configured to produce spatial information for the internal portion. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the light imaging system is configured to produce functional information for the internal portion. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the second imaging system is configured to produce three dimensional spatial information for the internal portion and the light imaging system is configured to produce three dimensional functional information for the internal portion. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein an exterior wall of the imaging chamber comprises a moveable interface having: a hole that receives the portable stage of the object handling system therethrough; a first circular bearing disposed between the exterior wall and a wall of the moveable interface and permits rotation between the exterior wall and the wall of the moveable interface; and a second circular bearing that permits rotation between the wall of the moveable interface and the object handling system. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the second imaging system is a computer tomography system that is configured to acquire topology information for the object. 9. The system of claim 8 further including a processing device configured to use the topology information to assist three dimensional reconstruction of the light source located inside the object. 10. A system for providing multiple types of imaging data for an internal portion of an object, the system comprising: a light imaging system for providing light data related to light emitted from a light source located inside the object, the light imaging system including: an imaging chamber comprising an interior cavity a first light seal disposed on an exterior wall thereof, and a camera configured to capture the light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity; a computer tomography system including: an X-ray producer configured to emit X-rays that pass through the object while resting on a portable stage positioned in a receiving area thereof, and an array of X-ray sensors that receive the X-rays; an object handling system adapted to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the computer tomography system, said object handling system including said portable stage, wherein the object handling system is configured to move the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber when the imaging chamber is sealed in a light tight manner, wherein the object handling system further includes a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of a second imaging system, and a second light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the first light seal on the exterior wall of the light imaging system to produce a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity; and a processing device in logical communication with the light imaging system, in logical communication with the computer tomography system, and in logical communication with the object handling system, wherein the processor combines three-dimensional spatial information provided by the computer tomography system with three-dimensional functional information provided by the light imaging system. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the portable stage supports the object during light imaging in the light imaging system and imaging in the computer tomography system. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein the computer tomography system is configured to acquire topology information of the object. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein the processing device is configured to use the topology information to assist three dimensional reconstruction of the light source located inside the object. 14. A system for providing multiple types of imaging data for an internal portion of an object, the system comprising: a light imaging system for providing light data related to light emitted from a light source located inside the object, the light imaging system including: an imaging chamber comprising an interior cavity a first light seal disposed on an exterior wall thereof, and a camera configured to capture the light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity; a magnetic resonance imaging system including a tubular cavity passing through a magnetic resonance imaging magnet, the tubular cavity comprising a receiving area that receives the object while resting on a portable stage; an object handling system adapted to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the magnetic resonance imaging system, said object handling system including said portable stage, wherein the object handling system is configured to move the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber when the imaging chamber is sealed in a light tight manner, wherein the object handling system further includes a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of a second imaging system, and a second light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the first light seal on the exterior wall of the light imaging system to produce a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity, and at least one processing device in logical communication with the light imaging system, in logical communication with the magnetic resonance imaging system, and in logical communication with the object handling system, wherein the processor combines three-dimensional spatial information provided by the magnetic resonance imaging system with three-dimensional functional information provided by the light imaging system. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the portable stage supports the object during light imaging in the light imaging system and imaging in the magnetic resonance imaging system. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the portable stage includes no metal parts. 17. The system of claim 14 wherein the object handling system is configured to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the magnetic resonance imaging system without substantially moving the object on the portable stage. 18. The system of claim 14 wherein the magnetic resonance imaging system is configured to acquire topology information for the object. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the processing device is configured to use the topology information to assist three dimensional reconstruction of the light source located inside the object. 20. A system for providing multiple types of imaging data for an internal portion of an object, the system comprising: a light imaging system for providing light data related to light emitted from a light source located inside the object, the light imaging system including: an imaging chamber comprising an interior cavity a first light seal disposed on an exterior wall thereof, and a camera configured to capture the light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity; a second imaging system configured to provide imaging data for the internal portion of the object and having a receiving area that allows the internal portion to be imaged while the object is in the receiving area; and an object handling system configured to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system, wherein the object handling system includes: a portable stage that is adapted to support the object, a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system, and a second light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the first light seal on the exterior wall of the light imaging system to produce a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein the object handling system is configured to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the second imaging system without substantially moving the object on the portable stage. 22. The system of claim 20 wherein the object handling system is configured to move the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber. 23. The system of claim 20 wherein an exterior wall of the imaging chamber comprises a moveable interface having: a hole that receives the portable stage therethrough; a first circular bearing disposed between the exterior wall and a wall of the moveable interface and permits rotation between the exterior wall and the wall of the moveable interface; and a second circular bearing that permits rotation between the wall of the moveable interface and the object handling system. 24. A system for providing multiple types of imaging data for an internal portion of an object, the system comprising: a light imaging system for providing light data related to light emitted from a light source located inside the object, the light imaging system including: an imaging chamber comprising an interior cavity a first light seal disposed on an exterior wall thereof, and a camera configured to capture the light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity; a nuclear medicine imaging system including one or more sensors that detect radioactive emissions produced by a radioactive substance within the object when the object is in a receiving area for the nuclear medicine imaging system, wherein the nuclear medicine imaging system is one of a positron emission tomography system and a single photon emission computed tomography system; and an object handling system adapted to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the nuclear medicine imaging system, wherein the object handling system is configured to move the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber, when the imaging chamber is sealed in a light tight manner, and wherein the object handling system includes: a portable stage that is adapted to support the object, a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the nuclear medicine imaging system, and a second light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the first light seal on the exterior wall of the light imaging system to produce a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity. 25. The system of claim 24 wherein the nuclear medicine imaging system is configured to acquire structural information for the object. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein the nuclear medicine imaging system is configured to acquire topology information for the object. 27. The system of claim 24 wherein the nuclear medicine imaging system is configured to acquire functional information related to a tumor inside the object. 28. A system for providing multiple types of imaging data for an internal portion of an object, the system comprising: a light imaging system for providing light data related to light emitted from a light source located inside the object, the light imaging system including: an imaging chamber comprising an interior cavity a first light seal disposed on an exterior wall thereof, and a camera configured to capture the light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity; a positron emission tomography system including one or more sensors that detect radioactive emissions produced by a radioactive substance within the object when the object is in a receiving area for the positron emission tomography imaging system, and including a circular gamma ray detector array that includes a set of scintillation crystals each connected to a photomultiplier tube; and an object handling system adapted to transfer the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the positron emission tomography imaging system, wherein the object handling system is configured to move the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber, when the imaging chamber is sealed in a light tight manner, wherein the object handling system includes: a portable stage that is adapted to support the object, a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area of the positron emission tomography imaging system, and a second light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the first light seal on the exterior wall of the light imaging system to produce a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity. 29. The system of claim 28 wherein the positron emission tomography system is configured to acquire structural information for the object. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein the positron emission tomography system is configured to acquire topology information for the object. 31. The system of claim 28 wherein the positron emission tomography system is configured to acquire functional information related to a tumor inside the object. 32. A method for obtaining multiple types of imaging data for an object, the method comprising: establishing a light tight seal between a light imaging system having an interior cavity and a first light seal disposed on an exterior wall thereof and an object handling system, wherein the object handling system includes: a portable stage that supports the object, a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and a receiving area of a nuclear medicine imaging system, and a second light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the first light seal on the exterior wall of the light imaging system to produce a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity; moving the object within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber using the stage of the object handling system, when the imaging chamber is sealed in a light tight manner; capturing light data emitted from a light source located inside the object while the object is in the interior cavity of the light imaging system, wherein the interior cavity of the light imaging chamber contains between about 10.sup.3 to about 10.sup.10 photons/second/centimeter squared/steradian when the light data is captured; transferring the object between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the receiving area using the object handling system; and obtaining imaging data of an internal portion of the object while the object is in the second imaging system. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein the second imaging system is a computer tomography imaging system and obtaining imaging data comprises receiving the imaging data using an array of X-ray sensors that detect the X-rays emitted from the object. 34. The method of claim 33 further comprising: combining three-dimensional spatial information provided by the computer tomography imaging system with three-dimensional functional information provided by the light imaging system. 35. The method of claim 32 further comprising obtaining anatomical information regarding the object from the second imaging system and using the anatomical information to obtain a three-dimensional representation of the light source located inside the object. 