The present invention discloses and claims methods and devices for the rapid mechanical isolation of monocot plant tissues suitable for transformation or tissue culture. The invention includes mechanical devices for substantially isolating target plant tissues for use as transformable explants, and propagation of transgenic plants and plant tissues.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for preparing multiple corn embryos suitable for tissue culture, comprising at least one aperture for guiding a fluid stream, wherein said fluid stream contacts kernels on said corn ear and extracts embryos from said kernels, said extracted embryos being suitable for transformation or tissue culture. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a means for moving at least one corn ear relative to said fluid stream. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one separator for separating embryos from non-embryos suitable for tissue culture. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said means for moving at least one corn ear relative to said fluid stream rotates said at least one corn ear and said at least one aperture relative to each other. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said means for moving at least one corn ear relative to said fluid stream moves said fluid stream along the longitudinal axis of said at least one corn ear. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said fluid stream is a liquid stream. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said fluid stream is a gas stream. 8. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said at least one separator comprises a size-exclusion device. 9. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said at least one separator separates said embryos from said non-embryo tissues by hydrophobicity. 10. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said at least one separator separates said embryos from said non-embryo tissues by density differentials. 11. An apparatus for mechanically extracting multiple corn embryos suitable for tissue culture from at least one immature corn ear, comprising at least one component selected from: a) at least one solid surface for applying mechanical positive pressure to the exterior of kernels on said at least one immature corn ear; b) at least one aperture for guiding a fluid flow, wherein said fluid flow contacts kernels on said at least one immature corn ear; and c) at least one aperture for applying negative fluid pressure, wherein said negative fluid pressure contacts kernels on said at least one immature corn ear; and wherein said at least one component applies force to said kernels sufficient to extract embryos from said kernels, said extracted embryos comprising multiple immature embryos suitable for tissue culture. 