Disclosed are a method, device kit, and automated system for simple, reproducible, and high-throughput quantification of mRNA from whole blood. More particularly, the method, device, kit and automated system involve combinations of leukocyte filters attached to oligo(dT)-immobilized multi-well plates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for quantifying a first specific mRNA comprising a particular sequence in a sample, comprising: a) spiking said sample with a known amount of a specific poly-A RNA less than 85% homologous to the first specific mRNA and forming a mixture comprising the first specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA, wherein the amount of the specific poly-A RNA does not significantly interfere with quantification of the first specific mRNA; b) purifying poly-A RNA that includes both the first specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA from the mixture; c) producing cDNA from the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture; d) quantifying the first specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA based on quantifying the cDNA in step c) and obtaining the amount of the first specific mRNA and the amount of the specific poly-A RNA in the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture; e) determining a percent recovery of the specific poly-A RNA by dividing the amount of the specific poly-A RNA in the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture by the known amount of the specific poly-A RNA in the mixture; and f) quantifying the amount of the first specific mRNA in the sample by dividing the amount of the first specific mRNA in the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture by the percent recovery of the specific poly-A RNA. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising quantifying a second specific mRNA in the sample by a method comprising: a) spiking said sample with a known amount of a specific poly-A RNA non-homologous to the second specific mRNA and forming a mixture comprising the second specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA, wherein the amount of the specific poly-A RNA does not significantly interfere with quantification of the second specific mRNA; b) purifying poly-A RNA that further includes the second specific mRNA and specific poly-A RNA from the mixture; c) producing cDNA from the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture; d) quantifying the second specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA based on quantifying the cDNA in step c) and obtaining the amount of the specific second mRNA and the amount of the specific poly-A RNA in the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture; e) determining a percent recovery of the specific poly-A RNA by dividing the amount of the specific poly-A RNA in the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture by the known amount of the specific poly-A RNA in the mixture; and f) quantifying the amount of the second specific mRNA in the sample by dividing the amount of the second specific mRNA in the poly-A RNA purified from the mixture by the percent recovery of the specific poly-A RNA. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of the specific poly-A RNA is less than 75% homologous to the sequence of the first specific mRNA. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of the specific poly-A RNA is less than 65% homologous to the sequence of the first specific mRNA. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing another sample comprising a plurality of different first specific mRNAs comprising dissimilar sequences in order to quantify said different first specific mRNAs in said another sample. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a plurality of different specific poly-A RNAs comprising dissimilar sequences and spiking said plurality of different specific poly-A RNAs into the sample. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the sample further comprises a plurality of different first specific mRNAs comprising dissimilar sequences and said different first specific mRNAs comprising dissimilar sequences are quantified based on the percent recovery of each of the plurality of specific poly-A RNAs spiked into the sample, the percent recovery of each of the plurality of specific poly-A RNAs spiked into the sample is determined by: (i) purifying poly-A RNA that includes the plurality of different first specific mRNAs comprising dissimilar sequences and the plurality of different specific poly-A RNAs spiked into the sample; (ii) producing cDNA from the poly-A RNA in step (i); (iii) quantifying the plurality of different first specific mRNAs comprising dissimilar sequences and the plurality of different specific poly-A RNAs spiked into the sample based on quantifying the cDNA in step (ii) and obtaining the amount of each of the plurality of different first specific mRNAs comprising dissimilar sequences and the amount of each of the plurality of different specific poly-A RNAs spiked into the sample; and (iv) dividing the amount of each of the plurality of different specific poly-A RNAs in the poly-A RNA purified from (i) by the known amount of its corresponding specific poly-A RNA from the plurality of different specific poly-A RNAs spiked into the sample, thereby allowing the quantification of the plurality of different first specific mRNAs comprising dissimilar sequences. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the purification of poly-A RNA comprises hybridizing the poly-A to oligo(dT). 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the oligo(dT) is immobilized. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises whole blood. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising adding the mixture to wells of a filtration device. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the purification of poly-A RNA from the mixture comprises applying a lysis buffer to the wells. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the filtration device comprises one or more filter membranes capable of capturing the leukocytes from the whole blood. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising removing the erythrocytes and other blood components other than the eukocytes from the whole blood of the mixture using the filtration device and yielding the leukocytes. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the whole blood is frozen. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising administering an anticoagulant to the sample. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the said one or more filter membranes is attached to a multi-well filter plate of the filtration device. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said known amount of specific poly-A RNA is 10 to 1.times.10.sup.10 copies. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said 10 to 1.times.10.sup.10 copies of the specific poly-A RNA are 1.times.10.sup.5 to 1.times.10.sup.10 copies. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein said one or more filter membranes is a PBT fibrous membrane. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein the leukocytes are captured on said one or more filter membranes of the filtration device. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising washing the leukocytes on said one or more filter membranes with a hypotonic buffer to further remove the erythrocytes and other blood components. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising drying said one or more filter membranes. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein drying said one or more filter membranes comprises washing said one or more filter membranes with ethanol and vacuum aspirating said one or more filter membranes until the filter membranes are dry. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein the multi-well filter plate comprises a multi-well oligo(dT)-immobilized plate. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising capturing said leukocytes on said one or more filter membranes, lysing the captured leukocytes, yielding a lysate and transferring the lysate to the oligo(dT)-immobilized plate. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said transferring the lysate the oligo(dT)-immobilized plate comprises centrifugation. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein said transferring the lysate to the oligo(dT)-immobilized plate comprises vacuum aspiration. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein said transferring the lysate to the oligo(dT)-immobilized plate comprises applying positive pressure. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantification of the cDNA comprises synthesis of cDNAs of the first specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA, and amplification of the cDNAs of the first specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising application of specific antisense primers during said producing step to produce the cDNA. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein the quantification of the cDNA comprises application of PCR primers specific for the first specific mRNA and the specific poly-A RNA. 33. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing probe molecules to detect said cDNA. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantification of the cDNA comprises amplification of the cDNA. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the amplification comprises PCR. 36. The method of claim 34, wherein the amplification comprises real time PCR. 37. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises cells and said specific poly-A RNA is in a lysis buffer. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein the lysis buffer further comprises: (a) a sufficient concentration of detergent to lyse at least a cytoplasmic membrane; (b) a salt at a sufficient concentration to act as a poly-A RNA-oligo(dT) hybridizing agent; (c) 1.4-1.75 M guanine thiocyanate; and (d) 200 .mu.g/ml-20 mg/ml proteinase K. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of the specific poly-A RNA has at least 10% difference in length from the sequence of the first specific mRNA. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of the specific poly-A RNA has at least 5% difference in length from the sequence of the first specific mRNA. 41. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of the specific poly-A RNA has at least 2% difference in length from the sequence of the first specific mRNA. 42. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of the specific poly-A RNA has at least 1% difference in length from the sequence of the first specific mRNA. 