The present invention provides systems and methods for loading and unloading substrate carriers onto and off of a transport system. The invention includes a substrate carrier handler adapted to transfer a substrate carrier between a docking station and a transport system, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector adapted to support the substrate carrier; a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler is operative to selectively engage and disengage the substrate carrier to and from the transport system while the substrate carrier is in motion; and a sensor coupled to the controller and operative to provide a signal to the controller indicative of information about the substrate carrier. The controller is operative to adjust operation of the substrate carrier handler based on the signal from the sensor if the adjustment may be performed within a load or unload stroke of the substrate carrier handler. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for loading and unloading substrate carriers onto and off of a transport system comprising: a substrate carrier handler adapted to transfer a substrate carrier between a docking station and a transport system, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector adapted to support the substrate carrier; a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler is operative to selectively engage and disengage the substrate carrier to and from the transport system while the substrate carrier is in motion; and a sensor coupled to the controller and operative to provide a signal to the controller indicative of at least one of the type, position and speed of the substrate carrier throughout a horizontal range of motion of the end effector, wherein the controller includes two or more stored motion profiles and is operative to: dynamically adjust at least one of the speed and position of the substrate carrier handler based on the signal from the sensor to match the substrate carrier if the adjustment may be performed within a load or unload horizontal range of motion of the end effector of the substrate carrier handler, and modify a selected motion profile as the substrate carrier moves through the horizontal range of motion of the end effector based on the signal from the sensor. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the sensor includes at least one of motion detector, a speed detector, a pressure sensor, an impact sensor, a carrier type sensor, a motor encoder, and a carrier presence detector. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the information about the substrate carrier indicates at least one of a speed of a carrier, a position of a carrier, a type of encoder, an orientation of a carrier, a presence of a carrier, substrate carrier handler motor encoder information, transport system motor encoder information, and a speed of the transport system. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the sensor includes a plurality of sensors adapted to provide a plurality of signals to the controller indicative of a plurality of information about the substrate carrier and the transport system. 5. The system claim 4 wherein the motion profile is selected based on the information about the substrate carrier. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the motion profile defines a motion of the end effector during a load or unload operation. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein the controller is further operative to modify the selected motion profile based on the plurality of signals from the plurality of sensors. 8. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors generate the plurality of signals while a substrate carrier approaches the substrate carrier handler on the transport system. 9. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors generate the plurality of signals while a substrate carrier is being removed from the transport system by the substrate carrier handler. 10. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors generate the plurality of signals while a substrate carrier support on the transport system approaches the substrate carrier handler. 11. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors generate the plurality of signals while a substrate carrier support on the transport system is being loaded with a substrate carrier by the substrate carrier handler. 12. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one sensor disposed on the end effector. 13. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one sensor disposed on the substrate carrier. 14. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one sensor disposed on the transport system. 15. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one sensor disposed adjacent the transport system. 16. The system of claim 4 wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one sensor disposed on the substrate carrier handler. 17. A method of loading and unloading substrate carriers onto and off of a transport system comprising: sensing at least one of the position and speed of an approaching substrate carrier throughout a horizontal range of motion of an end effector adapted to support the substrate carrier, wherein the substrate carrier is being transported on a transport system; determining a substrate carrier type for the approaching substrate carrier; selecting an unload motion profile from among at least two stored motion profiles based on at least one of the position and speed of the substrate carrier and based on the substrate carrier type; dynamically adjusting at least one of the speed and position of a substrate carrier handler in the unload motion profile based on additional information sensed during an unload horizontal range of motion of an end effector of a substrate carrier to match the substrate carrier as the substrate carrier moves through the horizontal range of motion of the end effector; and unloading the substrate carrier from the transport system using the adjusted unload motion profile. 18. A method of loading and unloading substrate carriers onto and off of a transport system comprising: determining an available substrate carrier support on a transport system; sensing first information about the substrate carrier support; sensing at least one of position and speed of a substrate carrier to be loaded onto the substrate carrier support throughout a horizontal range of motion of an end effector of a substrate carrier handler; determining a substrate carrier type for the substrate carrier; selecting a load motion profile from among at least two stored motion profiles based on the first and second information and based on the substrate carrier type; dynamically adjusting at least one of the speed and position of the load motion profile based on additional information sensed during a load horizontal range of motion of the end effector of the substrate carrier handler to match the substrate carrier as the substrate carrier moves through the horizontal range of motion of the end effector; and loading the substrate carrier from the transport system using the adjusted load motion profile. 