Apparatus in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention includes a data storage cartridge and/or a receiver configured to receive the cartridge in facilitation of data transfer to and/or from the cartridge. The cartridge and the receiver each include respective connector portions configured to connect when the cartridge is inserted into the receiver. The cartridge and/or the receiver also include guide features configured to facilitate alignment of the connector portions for connection as the cartridge is inserted into the receiver.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage apparatus, comprising: a cartridge; and, a receiver configured to receive the cartridge, wherein: the cartridge comprises: a cartridge shell that defines a pair of juxtaposed substantially parallel sides each supporting an elongated cartridge guide region that includes a front cartridge guide feature and a rear cartridge guide feature; a memory device operatively housed within the cartridge shell; a cartridge connector portion supported by the cartridge shell and linked with the memory device for signal transmission therebetween; and, the receiver comprises: a chassis; a receiver connector portion supported by the chassis and configured to matingly connect with the cartridge connector portion for signal transmission therebetween when the cartridge is received into the receiver; and, a pair of elongated guide members extending from the chassis in substantially parallel, spaced apart, juxtaposed relation to one another, wherein each guide member includes a front receiver guide feature and a rear receiver guide feature. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein: the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature; and, the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein: the front receiver guide feature is substantially distal from the chassis; the rear receiver guide feature is proximate the chassis; the rear cartridge guide feature is substantially distal from the cartridge connector portion; the front cartridge guide feature is proximate the cartridge connector portion. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, and wherein: the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature with a substantially continuous snug fit; and, the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature with a substantially momentary snug fit. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, and wherein: the cartridge further comprises a cartridge reference feature; and, the receiver further comprises a receiver reference feature configured to engage the cartridge reference feature. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, and wherein the cartridge reference feature and the receiver reference feature are configured such that the engagement of the receiver reference feature with the cartridge reference feature substantially coincides with an end of the snug fit between the front cartridge guide feature and the rear receiver guide feature. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, and wherein: the cartridge further comprises a door supported by the cartridge shell; the door is configured to protectively cover the cartridge connector portion when the cartridge is not received into the receiver; and the door is configured to uncover the cartridge connector portion in response to the engagement of the receiver reference feature with the cartridge reference feature. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein: the cartridge shell defines therethrough an air inlet; the chassis defines therethrough an air outlet; and the receiver further comprises a fan configured to induce flow of an air stream through the air outlet and into the air inlet when the cartridge is substantially fully received into the receiver. 9. A data storage apparatus, comprising: a cartridge that has a front side and a rear side, and that houses a data storage means; a cartridge connector portion supported on the front side of the cartridge and which is linked with the data storage means for signal transmission therebetween; a receiver configured to supportively receive the cartridge; a receiver connector portion supported on the receiver and configured to matingly connect with the cartridge connector portion when the cartridge is substantially fully received into the receiver; and an alignment means for substantially maintaining substantially continuous alignment of the rear side of the cartridge as the cartridge is inserted into the receiver and for substantially momentarily aligning the front side of the cartridge substantially immediately prior to engagement of the cartridge connector portion and the receiver connector portion, wherein such momentary alignment facilitates successful connective engagement therebetween. 10. A data storage apparatus, comprising: a cartridge having a front side and an opposite rear side; a receiver for receiving the cartridge; a means for substantially momentarily aligning the front side with the receiver; and, a means for substantially continuously aligning the rear side with the receiver while momentarily aligning the front side with the receiver. 11. A data storage apparatus, comprising: a memory device; a cartridge housing the memory device and including a shell that: supports an elongated cartridge guide region that comprises: a front cartridge guide feature that is substantially proximate a cartridge connector portion; a rear cartridge guide feature that is distal from the cartridge connector portion; a run region that extends between the front and rear cartridge guide features and is wider than both the front and rear cartridge guide features; and a receiver that receives and transports the cartridge. 12. The data storage apparatus of claim 11, wherein the front and rear cartridge guide features are bottlenecks with a narrowed region. 13. The data storage apparatus of claim 11, and wherein the run region has a substantially constant width, and the front and rear cartridge guide features are located at opposite ends of the run region. 14. The data storage apparatus of claim 11, wherein the receiver includes a receiver connector portion supported by the chassis and configured to matingly connect with the cartridge connector portion for signal transmission therebetween when the cartridge is received into the receiver. 15. The data storage apparatus of claim 11, wherein the receiver includes a pair of elongated guide members extending from the chassis in substantially parallel, spaced apart, juxtaposed relation to one another, wherein each guide member includes a front receiver guide feature and a rear receiver guide feature. 