In embodiments of the present invention, a gutter-cleaning device comprises a housing containing an impeller drive facility, the housing configured to fit into a gutter, an impeller, disposed at an end of the housing and driven by the impeller drive facility, and a transport facility for transporting the housing along the gutter. The impeller may have an axis of rotation, the axis of rotation oriented toward an inside corner of the gutter and the impeller drive facility may be adapted to rotate the impeller on the axis of rotation. Transport of the housing through the gutter may cause the impeller to travel along an axis of motion, the axis of motion differing from the axis of rotation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cleaning a gutter, the apparatus comprising: a housing adapted to fit into a gutter having an inside corner proximal to a roof, the housing having an axis aligned with the gutter when the housing is placed in the gutter; an impeller drive facility connected to the housing; an impeller connected to the impeller drive facility, the impeller having an axis of rotation, the axis of rotation oriented in a fixed off axis orientation to the axis of the housing, wherein the fixed off axis orientation inclines downward and toward the inside corner of the gutter relative to the axis of the housing when the housing is placed for use in the gutter, the impeller drive facility adapted to rotate the impeller on the axis of rotation; and a transport drive connected to the housing, the transport drive adapted to transport the housing through the gutter along an axis of motion aligned with the axis of the housing when the housing is placed for use in the gutter, transport of the housing through the gutter causing the impeller to travel along the axis of motion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the impeller includes a blade extending past a rotating joint, the rotating joint between the impeller and the rest of the apparatus. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the impeller includes a flexible blade adapted both to deflect when brought into contact with the gutter and to release when brought out of contact with the gutter. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a spherical bearing disposed on the impeller, wherein the impeller is tapered and has a tip, the bearing disposed at the tip. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the impeller is removably connected to the impeller drive facility. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a circuit within the housing adapted to detect a change in orientation of the axis of rotation and responsively reverse a direction of the transport drive. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising at least one of a gyroscope and an accelerometer to detect the change in orientation of the axis of rotation. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a circuit within the housing adapted to detect a change in orientation of the axis of rotation and responsively reduce a torque of the impeller drive facility. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising at least one of a gyroscope and an accelerometer to detect the change in orientation of the axis of rotation. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a circuit within the housing adapted to detect a change in orientation of the axis of rotation and responsively reverse a torque of the impeller drive facility. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising at least one of a gyroscope and an accelerometer to detect the change in orientation of the axis of rotation. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a second impeller drive facility connected to an opposing end of the housing from the impeller drive facility. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further comprising a circuit within the housing adapted to detect a change in orientation of the axis of rotation and responsively activate the second impeller drive facility. 14. An apparatus for cleaning a gutter, the apparatus comprising: a housing adapted to fit into a residential gutter with a predetermined orientation, wherein the residential gutter includes an inside corner proximal to a roof; an impeller drive connected to the housing; an impeller connected to the impeller drive, the impeller including at least one flexible paddle and at least one stiff bristle brush and the impeller having an axis of rotation oriented downward and toward an inside corner of the gutter relative to an axis of motion of the housing when the housing is in the predetermined orientation, the impeller drive facility adapted to rotate the impeller on the axis of rotation; and a transport drive connected to the housing, the transport drive adapted to transport the housing through the gutter along the axis of motion when the housing is in the predetermined orientation. 15. An apparatus for cleaning a gutter, the apparatus comprising: a housing adapted to fit into a residential gutter with a predetermined orientation, wherein the residential gutter includes an inside corner proximal to a roof; an impeller drive connected to the housing; an impeller connected to the impeller drive on a first end and tapered to a tip on a second end, the impeller having an axis of rotation oriented downward and toward an inside corner of the gutter relative to an axis of motion of the housing when the housing is in the predetermined orientation, the impeller drive facility adapted to rotate the impeller on the axis of rotation; and a transport drive connected to the housing, the transport drive adapted to transport the housing through the gutter along the axis of motion when the housing is placed for use in the predetermined orientation. 