Pan systems are provided. Pan systems illustratively include a hobby servo motor having a splined output shaft, a rotatable auxiliary shaft that is approximately parallel to the splined output shaft, and a one piece support frame. In an embodiment, the one piece support frame has a top panel, a center panel, a first side, and a second side. The top panel and the center panel are approximately parallel. The first side and the second side are approximately parallel. The top panel and the center panel are approximately perpendicular to the first side and the second side. The top and center panels illustratively each include a hobby servo motor aperture and an auxiliary shaft aperture. The hobby servo motor is positioned within the hobby servo apertures and the rotatable auxiliary shaft is positioned within the auxiliary shaft apertures.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pan system comprising: a hobby servo motor having a splined output shaft; a rotatable auxiliary shaft that is approximately parallel to the splined output shaft; and a support frame, the support frame having a top panel, a first side, and a second side, wherein the first side and the second side are approximately parallel, wherein the top panel is approximately perpendicular to the first side and the second side, wherein the top panel includes a hobby servo motor aperture and an auxiliary shaft aperture, wherein the hobby servo motor is positioned within the hobby servo aperture, wherein the rotatable auxiliary shaft is positioned within the auxiliary shaft aperture; and wherein angular rotation of the splined output shaft is controlled based at least in part on a coded input signal. 2. The pan system of claim 1 wherein each of the first and second sides has a top and a bottom, wherein the top panel is positioned along the tops of the first and second sides, and wherein the frame includes a center panel that is positioned between the tops and the bottoms of the sides. 3. The pan system of claim 1 and further comprising a potentiometer that is functionally connected to the rotatable auxiliary shaft, and wherein the angular rotation of the splined output shaft is further controlled based at least in part on an output signal of the potentiometer. 4. The pan system of claim 1 wherein the hobby servo motor aperture is approximately rectangular. 5. The pan system of claim 1 wherein the splined output shaft is functionally engaged to a gear, and wherein rotation of the gear rotates the rotatable auxiliary shaft. 6. The pan system of claim 5 wherein the rotatable auxiliary shaft is functionally engaged to a second gear, and wherein the rotatable auxiliary shaft is rotated by contact between the gear and the second gear. 7. The pan system of claim 6 wherein a diameter of the second gear is greater than a diameter of the gear. 8. The pan system of claim 1 wherein the support frame includes flanges that are approximately parallel to the top panel, wherein each of the first and second sides includes a top and a bottom, wherein the top panel is located at the tops of the first and second sides, and wherein the flanges are located at the bottoms of the first and second sides. 9. The pan system of claim 8 wherein the flanges include apertures, and wherein the flanges extend along a length of the first and second sides. 10. A pan system comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable splined output shaft; a servo gear engaged to the output shaft; an auxiliary gear rotatably coupled to the servo gear; an auxiliary shaft connected to the auxiliary gear such that rotation of the auxiliary gear is translated to the auxiliary shaft; a support frame having a top panel, the top panel including a servo aperture and an auxiliary aperture, wherein the hobby servo motor is positioned within the servo aperture, and wherein the auxiliary shaft is positioned within the auxiliary aperture; an external potentiometer that is functionally connected to the auxiliary shaft; and wherein an angular position of the splined output shaft is controlled based at least in part on a signal from the external potentiometer. 11. The pan system of claim 10 wherein the splined output shaft has a first axis of rotation, wherein the auxiliary gear has a second axis of rotation, wherein the first and second axes are approximately parallel, and wherein the auxiliary gear has more gear teeth than the servo gear. 12. The pan system of claim 10 wherein the top panel has a rectangular shape. 13. The pan system of claim 10 wherein the support frame comprises a first side and a second side that are both approximately perpendicular to the top panel, wherein each of the first and second sides has a length, and wherein the first side and the second side are separated from each other by a same distance along the lengths of the first and second sides. 14. The pan system of claim 10 wherein a first bearing assembly is positioned within the top panel auxiliary aperture, and wherein the auxiliary gear is connected to the auxiliary shaft utilizing a collar. 15. The pan system of claim 10 wherein the servo aperture is non-circular. 16. A pan system comprising: a hobby servo motor having a rotatable splined output shaft; a servo gear engaged to the output shaft; an auxiliary gear rotatably coupled to the servo gear; an auxiliary shaft connected to the auxiliary gear such that rotation of the auxiliary gear is translated to the auxiliary shaft; a support frame having a servo aperture and an auxiliary aperture, wherein the hobby servo motor is positioned within the servo aperture, wherein the auxiliary shaft is positioned within the auxiliary aperture; and wherein rotation of the hobby servo motor is controlled based at least in part on a coded input signal. 17. The pan system of claim 16 wherein the auxiliary gear has more gear teeth than the servo gear. 18. The pan system of claim 16 wherein a diameter of the auxiliary gear is larger than a diameter of the servo gear. 19. The pan system of claim 16 and further comprising a collar attached to the servo gear, and wherein the servo gear is located between the collar and the support frame. 20. The pan system of claim 16 wherein a shape of the servo aperture is different than a shape of the auxiliary aperture. 