Techniques for providing singularity escape and avoidance are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method for providing control moment gyroscope (CMG) attitude control singularity escape includes calculating a Jacobian A of a set of control equations, calculating a measure of closeness to a singularity, and comparing the calculated closeness to a threshold value, when the calculated closeness is less than or equal to the threshold value, recalculating the Jacobian A. Recalculating may include determining a new direction of virtual misalignment of .beta. and .gamma., recalculating the Jacobian inputting the new direction of the virtual misalignment, recalculating the measure of closeness to a singularity, and comparing the measure of closeness to the threshold value. Further, the method may include calculating a gimbal rate command if the of closeness is greater than the threshold value and generating a torque from the gimbal rate command to control the attitude of a satellite.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. One or more computer readable media comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a computer, perform acts for providing control moment gyroscope (CMG) attitude control singularity escape comprising: determining an attitude adjustment; calculating a Jacobian matrix of a set of control equations based on the attitude adjustment; calculating a measure of closeness to a singularity from the Jacobian; comparing the measure of closeness to a threshold value, when the measure is less than or equal to the threshold value, recalculating the Jacobian matrix; calculating a gimbal command from the Jacobian to generate a satellite torque displacement for adjusting the attitude of the satellite and utilizing of a momentum envelope beyond the singularity. 2. One or more computer readable media as in claim 1, wherein recalculating the Jacobian includes an input of .beta. and .gamma. to create a virtual misalignment of the Jacobian to escape the singularity. 3. One or more computer readable media as in claim 2, wherein the input of .beta. and .gamma. are less than or equal to one degree with respect to an orientation of the satellite. 4. One or more computer readable media as in claim 2, wherein the input of .beta. and .gamma. are recalculated for each calculation of the Jacobian. 5. One or more computer readable media as in claim 1, wherein comparing the measure of closeness to the threshold value is substantially of the form: |AA.sup.T|.ltoreq..epsilon..sub.Threshold. 6. One or more computer readable media as in claim 1, wherein the gimbal rate command {dot over (.delta.)}.sub.c is substantially of the form: {dot over (.delta.)}.sub.c=(A.sup.TA).sup.-1A{dot over (h)}.sub.c wherein {dot over (h)}.sub.c is a torque command. 