An improved stocker configuration for storing workpieces in a fabrication facility is disclosed, employing workpiece compartments arranged stationarily around a robot handling assembly. The robot handler can be designed with three degrees of freedom, to improve speed, throughput and minimum minimum particle generation. In addition, the stocker storage area is stationary with the movable components are the robot assembly, thus further contributing to the cleanliness of the storage stocker. The stocker configuration can be open storage area for fast access, space saving and ease of clean air purging. The stocker configuration can provide highly dense workpiece storage, utilizing a circumferential edge gripper robot handling assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stocker for storing a plurality of flat substrates, each flat substrate comprising two opposite flat surfaces and a peripheral edge, the stocker comprising a storage compartment for holding the flat substrates, the storage compartment designed for allowing access to the substrate by the peripheral edge without extending to the flat surfaces; an integrated substrate handler comprising an edge grip handler for transferring the substrates in and out of the storage compartment, the edge grip handler handling a substrate by the peripheral edge without extending to the flat surfaces, the integrated substrate handler further comprising an end effector handler for handling a substrate by extending to a flat surface; a station for transferring substrates with the storage compartment and with a load port, wherein the substrates in the station can be handled by the integrated substrate handler by the edge grip handler and by the end effector handler; and a load port designed for allowing access to the substrate by an end effector extending to the flat surfaces, wherein the edge grip handler is designed to access substrates in the storage compartment and in the station, and wherein the end effector handler is designed to access substrates in the load port and the station. 2. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the flat substrates are stored vertically. 3. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the flat substrates are stored horizontally. 4. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the space between two adjacent substrates is less than 5 mm. 5. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the space between two adjacent substrates is less than 2.5 mm. 6. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein handling a substrate by the peripheral edge without extending to the flat surfaces allows the space between the substrates to be independent of the substrate handler. 7. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the substrate handler comprises a claw-like tip to hold the substrate by the peripheral edge. 8. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the substrate handler handles the substrate with an angle more than 180 degrees. 9. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the storage compartment holding the substrates at a plurality of holding points spanning less than 180 degrees. 10. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the stocker comprises a plurality of storage compartments surrounding the substrate handler. 11. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the stocker comprises a plurality of storage compartments arranged in a vertical direction. 12. A stocker as in claim 1 wherein the station comprises a pre-aligner. 