The creation of a variety of upgradeable scalable switching networks are set forth including multistage switching networks as well as novel multidirectional architectures. Systems and methods exploiting the properties such as fault tolerance, upgradeability with out service disruption and path redundancy are incorporated into a variety of systems. A wide range of methods for upgrading and reconfiguration the scalable switching networks are presented including manifestations of implementations of these networks and methods. Methods for designing new upgradeable scalable switching and the novel architectures derived thereof including architectures built from the redundant blocking compensated cyclic group networks are set forth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of upgrading a scalable switching network, said scalable switching network comprising: a plurality of stages of switching elements each comprising a plurality of ports coupled to a rear connector coupled to a front connector on a patch panel; a plurality of internal ports; a plurality of external port; and a plurality of internal connections, wherein the internal ports and external ports are ports of one of the switching elements and the internal connections are jumpers coupled to two front connectors on the patch panel coupled to rear connectors coupled to the internal ports, said method comprising: providing a post-reconfiguration architecture; adding new hardware comprising a plurality of internal ports as defined by the post-reconfiguration architecture; assigning to each internal port a corresponding port defined by the post-reconfiguration architecture; and rewiring any internal port on the basis of the post-reconfiguration architecture, said patch panel comprises a plurality of connectors having coupled front and rear connectors and at least one indication means associated with each front connector; and said rewiring comprising: (a) selecting a selected port of the plurality of internal ports that is not coupled through connectors to the corresponding port assigned to said selected port; (b) activating a disconnect indication means associated with the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the selected port, if the front connector is coupled to a first jumper; (c) waiting for the first jumper to be disconnected; (d) verifying the first jumper is correctly disconnected; (e) activating an error indication means associated with the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the selected port, if the first jumper is not correctly disconnected; (f) activating a disconnect indication means associated with the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the corresponding port assigned to the selected port, if the front connector is coupled to a second jumper; (g) waiting for the second jumper to be disconnected; (h) verifying the second jumper is correctly disconnected; (i) activating an error indication means associated with the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the corresponding port assigned to the selected port, if the second jumper is not correctly disconnected; (j) activating a connect indication means associated with the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the selected port; (k) activating a connect indication means associated with the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the corresponding port assigned to the selected port; (l) waiting for a third jumper to be connected to the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the selected port and the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the corresponding port assigned to the selected port; (m) verifying a proper connection of the third jumper; (n) activating the error indication means associated with the rear connector coupled to the selected port, and the error indication means associated with the rear connector coupled to the corresponding port assigned to the selected port, if the third jumper is not properly connected; and repeating steps (a)-(n) until each internal ports is coupled through connectors to its corresponding port. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the connect indication means is a light, the disconnect indication means is a light, and the error indication means is a light. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the connect indication means, the disconnect indication and the error indication means are the same light. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the connection indication means, the disconnect means, and error indications are associated with different colors. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the connection indication means, the disconnect means, and error indications are associated with blinking patterns. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: pre-connecting any internal port on the basis of the post-reconfiguration architecture. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the pre-connecting comprises: selecting a pre-connection port of the plurality of internal ports that is not coupled through connectors to any connection and having assigned a corresponding port that is not coupled to any connection; and connecting a jumper to the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the pre-connection port and to the front connector coupled to the rear connector coupled to the corresponding port assigned to the pre-connection port. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising: relabeling any internal ports belonging to a common switching element on the basis of the post-configuration architecture. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the relabeling comprises: selecting a pair of internal ports having a first port and a second port wherein the second port is connected to a switching element containing the corresponding port assigned to the first port or; and logically exchanging the labels of the first port and the second port whereby traffic intended for the first port is routed to the second port and traffic intended for the second port is routed to the first port. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the relabeling comprises: selecting a pair of internal ports having a first port and a second port wherein the second port is connected to the corresponding port assigned to the first port; and logically exchanging the labels of the first port and the second port whereby traffic intended for the first port is routed to the second port and traffic intended for the second port is routed to the first port. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said new hardware comprises at least one new stage of switching elements, at least one new switching element, at least one new port to at least one of the switching elements, or a combination thereof. 12. A scalable switching network comprising: a plurality of stages of the switching elements; a plurality of internal ports; a plurality of external ports; and a plurality of internal connections, wherein each switching element comprising a plurality of ports and a plurality of latching switches with each port coupled to a latching switch; each latching switch comprises: an addressable set of states comprising a first state and a second state; a first port associated with the first state; and a second port associated with the second state, and wherein traffic is directed towards the first port if the first state is set and the traffic is directed towards the second port if the second state is set; wherein adjacent stages are connected using a redundant blocking compensated cyclic group interconnection network; wherein the internal ports and external ports are the first port of one of the latching switches and the internal connections are coupled to two of the internal ports, and wherein the internal connections are configured in accordance to a first topology. 13. The scalable switching network of claim 12, further comprising: a plurality of alternate internal ports; a plurality of alternate external ports and a plurality of alternate internal connections, wherein the alternate internal ports and alternate external ports are the second port of one of the latching switches and the alternate internal connections are coupled to two of the alternate internal ports, and wherein the alternate internal connections are configured in accordance to a second topology. 14. A method of upgrading a scalable switching network, said scalable switching network comprising: a plurality of stages of upgradeable switching elements, each upgradeable switching element comprising: a switching element comprising a plurality of ports; and a latching switch coupled to each port comprising: an addressable set of states comprising a first state and a second state; a first port associated with the first state; and a second port associated with the second state, and wherein traffic is directed towards the first port if the first state is set and the traffic is directed towards the second port if the second state is set; a plurality of internal ports; a plurality for external port; and a plurality of internal connections, wherein the internal ports and external ports are ports of one of the switching elements and the internal connections are coupled to two first ports of latching switches, each latching switch coupled to one of the internal ports, and wherein the internal connections are configured in accordance to a pre-reconfiguration architecture, said method comprising: providing a post-reconfiguration architecture; adding new hardware comprising a plurality of internal ports as defined by the post-reconfiguration architecture; assigning to each internal port a corresponding port defined by the post-reconfiguration architecture; connecting each internal port to the corresponding port assigned to the internal port by connecting the second port of the latching switch coupled to the internal port to the second port of the latching switch coupled to the corresponding port; rewiring any internal port on the basis of the post-reconfiguration architecture; and disconnecting all connections to each first port of each latching switch, wherein rewiring comprises sequentially: (a) selecting a selected port of the plurality of internal ports where the latching switch coupled to the selected port is in the first state; (b) switching the latching switch associated with the selected port to the second state; and (c) switching the latching switch associated with the corresponding port assigned to the selected port to the second state; repeating steps (a)-(c) until every latching switch is in the second state. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: pre-connecting any internal port on the basis of the post-reconfiguration architecture. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the pre-connecting comprises: selecting a pre-connection port of the plurality of internal ports where the first port of the latching switch coupled to the pre-connection port is not coupled to any connection and the first port of the latching switch coupled to the corresponding port assigned to the pre-connection port is also not coupled to any connection; switching the latching switch associated with the pre-connection port to the second state; and switching the latching switch associated with the corresponding port assigned to the pre-connection port to the second state. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said new hardware comprises at least one new stage of switching elements, at least one new switching element, at least one new port to at least one of the switching elements, or a combination thereof. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the selecting a selected port comprises selecting a port with a latching switch in the first state wherein the corresponding port has a latching switch in the first state wherein the first port of the latching switch is not connected to a port with a latching switch in the first state. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting a selected port comprises selecting a port with a corresponding port which is not connected. 