A mobile robot includes a robot chassis having a forward end, a rearward end and a center of gravity. The robot includes a driven support surface to propel the robot and first articulated arm rotatable about an axis located rearward of the center of gravity of the robot chassis. The arm is pivotable to trail the robot, rotate in a first direction to raise the rearward end of the robot chassis while the driven support surface propels the chassis forward in surmounting an obstacle, and to rotate in a second opposite direction to extend forward beyond the center of gravity of the robot chassis to raise the forward end of the robot chassis and invert the robot endwise.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a mobile robotic vehicle to surmount a series of stair risers, comprising: driving a support surface to propel the vehicle to place the support surface in contact with the riser of a first stair below an uppermost edge of the first stair riser; further driving the support surface to cause the forward end of the vehicle to ascend the riser of the first stair, the support surface generating sufficient traction against the riser to climb the riser as the support surface is driven; pivoting a first pivoting trailing arm to raise a rearward end of the vehicle while the forward end of the vehicle is supported by the first stair; driving the support surface to advance the forward end of the robot over the uppermost edge of the first stair riser; pivoting the arm to further raise the rearward end of the vehicle such that the forward end of the vehicle tips downward beyond the uppermost edge of the riser of the first stair; and repeating the driving and pivoting to surmount a second stair of the series of stair risers. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising pivoting the arm to raise the forward end of the vehicle to assist in ascending the first stair. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising pivoting the arm to flip the robot endwise. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein raising the forward end of the vehicle raises a radio transceiver on the vehicle. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising supporting the vehicle in a first substantially horizontal orientation on an underlying surface and pivoting the arm to contact the underlying surface to raise the forward end of the vehicle past a stable point, and allowing the vehicle to topple over to a second orientation inverted with respect to the first orientation. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein pivoting the first arm and driving the support surface are performed simultaneously. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein pivoting the first arm and driving the support surface are performed substantially asynchronously. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the support surface propels the vehicle to a predetermined angle of incline before the first arm is initially pivoted to raise the rearward end of the vehicle. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first arm is pivoted at a predetermined rate for a predetermined period upon detection of a predetermined angle of incline of the vehicle. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that a center of gravity of the vehicle has not cleared the uppermost edge of the first stair and pivoting the arm rearward to topple the vehicle forward from a possible teetering position. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein pivoting the first arm to raise a rearward end of the vehicle as the forward end of the robot ascends the riser of the first stair comprises pivoting the arm at a first rotational speed and, after pivoting the arm at the first rotational speed, pivoting the arm at a second rotational speed greater than the first rotational speed. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising driving the support surface along a run of the first stair to a riser of the second stair. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the vehicle substantially fits within a bounding volume approximately 7 inches long, 5 inches wide and 2 inches tall, and wherein the first stair riser is 8 inches or less in height. 