A method to prepare synthetic nucleic acid molecules having reduced inappropriate or unintended transcriptional characteristics when expressed in a particular host cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A synthetic nucleic acid molecule comprising at least 300 nucleotides of a coding region for a luciferase, having a codon composition differing at more than 25% of the codons from a wild type nucleic acid sequence encoding the luciferase, and having at least 3-fold fewer transcription regulatory sequences relative to the average number of such sequences resulting from random selections of codons at the codons which differ, wherein the transcription regulatory sequences are selected from the group consisting of transcription factor binding sequences, intron splice sites, poly(A) addition sites and promoter sequences, wherein the luciferase encoded by the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has at least 85% sequence identity to the luciferase encoded by the wild type nucleic acid sequence, wherein the majority of the codons which differ in the synthetic nucleic acid molecule are those which are employed more frequently in mammals, and wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has at least 99% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 22. 2. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has at least 5-fold fewer transcription regulatory sequences. 3. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the codon composition of the synthetic nucleic acid molecule differs from the wild type nucleic acid sequence at more than 35% of the codons. 4. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the codon composition of the synthetic nucleic acid molecule differs from the wild type nucleic acid sequence at more than 45% of the codons. 5. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the codon composition of the synthetic nucleic acid molecule differs from the wild type nucleic acid sequence at more than 55% of the codons. 6. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the wild type nucleic acid sequence encodes a Renilla luciferase. 7. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the majority of codons which differ in the synthetic nucleic acid molecule are those which are preferred codons in humans. 8. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule comprises SEQ ID NO: 21 (Rlucver2) or SEQ ID NO:22 (Rluc-final). 9. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 7 wherein the majority of codons are CGC, CTG, TCT, AGC, ACC, CCA, CCT, GCC, GGC, GTG, ATC, ATT , AAG, AAC, CAG, CAC, GAG, GAC, TAC, TGC and TTC. 10. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 7 wherein the majority of codons are CGC, CTG, TCT, ACC, CCA, GCC, GGC, GTC, and ATC or codons CGT, TTG, AGC, ACT, CCT, GCT, GGT, GTG and ATT. 11. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule is capable of being expressed in a mammalian host cell at a level which is greater than that of the wild type nucleic acid sequence. 12. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of CTG or TTG leucine-encoding codons. 13. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of GTG or GTC valine-encoding codons. 14. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of GGC or GGT glycine-encoding codons. 15. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule an increased number of ATC or ATT isoleucine-encoding codons. 16. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of CCA or CCT proline-encoding codons. 17. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of CGC or CGT arginine-encoding codons. 18. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of AGC or TCT serine-encoding codons. 19. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of ACC or ACT threonine-encoding codons. 20. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has an increased number of GCC or GCT alanine-encoding codons. 21. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the codons in the synthetic nucleic acid molecule encode the same amino acids as the corresponding codons in the wild type nucleic acid sequence. 22. A plasmid comprising the synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1. 23. An expression vector comprising the synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 linked to a promoter functional in a cell. 24. The expression vector of claim 23 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule is operatively linked to a Kozak consensus sequence. 25. The expression vector of claim 23 wherein the promoter is functional in a mammalian cell. 26. The expression vector of claim 23 wherein the promoter is functional in a human cell. 27. The expression vector of claim 23 wherein the promoter is functional in a plant cell. 28. The expression vector of claim 23 wherein the expression vector further comprises a multiple cloning site. 29. The expression vector of claim 28 wherein the expression vector comprises a multiple cloning site positioned between the promoter and the synthetic nucleic acid molecule. 30. The expression vector of claim 28 wherein the expression vector comprises a multiple cloning site positioned downstream from the synthetic nucleic acid molecule. 31. An isolated host cell comprising the expression vector of claim 23. 32. A reporter gene expression kit comprising, in suitable container means, the expression vector of claim 23. 33. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule is expressed at a level which is at least 110% of that of the wild type nucleic acid sequence in a cell or cell extract under identical conditions. 34. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the polypeptide encoded by the synthetic nucleic acid molecule has at least 90% contiguous sequence identity to the polypeptide encoded by the wild type nucleic acid sequence. 35. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 1 wherein the polypeptide encoded by the synthetic nucleic acid molecule is identical in amino acid sequence to the polypeptide encoded by the wild type nucleic acid sequence. 36. A synthetic nucleic acid molecule comprising at least 300 nucleotides having at least 99% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 22 and encoding a polypeptide having luciferase activity and at least 90% identity to the wild-type Renilla luciferase. 37. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 36, wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule is SEQ ID NO:22. 38. The synthetic nucleic acid molecule of claim 36, wherein the synthetic nucleic acid molecule is SEQ ID NO: 21. 