Disparate robotic devices can be automatically recharged and reprogrammed by self-scheduling individual time slots for the available recharging area(s) of a charging station. These charging stations provide a nest to which each robot must return periodically for power. These nests can also provide new tasking or patches for the robotic devices. The charging station and the robotic devices are both provided with communications capabilities and a protocol by which they can negotiate to find a time slot in which the device can be recharged, as well as determining a correct connector and a battery type.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of recharging robotic devices, said method comprising the steps of: detecting when a robotic device has reached a given level of depletion; establishing a communications link between said robotic device and a charging station; using a protocol to determine a connector or correct current needed for charging said robotic device; and charging said robotic device using said connector or said correct power; wherein said steps are performed solely by said robotic device and said charging station further comprising using the protocol to determine a time slot for charging said robotic device to provide, in response to a request, a first available time at which said robotic device can report to said nesting station for charging; and to provide either a confirmation of said time slot or a request for a different time slot. 2. The method of recharging robotic devices of claim 1, wherein said correct power has the output characteristics of a voltage source. 3. The method of recharging robotic devices of claim 1, wherein said correct power has the output characteristics of a current source. 4. A computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and comprising computer executable code that is operable to perform the steps of claim 1. 5. The method of recharging robotic devices of claim 1, further comprising: using the protocol to determine a time slot for charging said robotic device; and providing said robotic device with new tasks or updated programming during said time slot. 6. The method of recharging robotic devices of claim 1, wherein said charging station maintains separate schedules for each of a plurality of connectors. 