A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24L) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). Cameras (46R and 46L) view workspace (30) from different angles for production of stereoscopic signal outputs at lines (48R and 48L). In response to the camera outputs a 3-dimensional top-to-bottom inverted image (30I) is produced which, is reflected by mirror (66) toward the eyes of operator (18). A virtual image (30V) is produced adjacent control arms (76R and 76L) which is viewed by operator (18) looking in the direction of the control arms. Use of the teleoperator system for surgical procedures also is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a master manipulator; a slave manipulator comprising an elongate shaft, the shaft comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the shaft having a reference point located between the proximal and distal ends, the slave manipulator further comprising an end effector coupled to the distal end of the shaft; and a motor unit coupled to the proximal end of the shaft, the motor unit configured to translate movement of the master manipulator into corresponding movement of the distal end of the shaft by moving the proximal end of the shaft in at least two degrees of freedom, said movement in at least two degrees of freedom coordinated such that said reference point is fixed in space during movement of the proximal end of the shaft, said movement in at least two degrees of freedom comprising translating the proximal end of the shaft in at least two degrees of freedom to pivot the shaft about the reference point. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, said movement in at least two degrees of freedom further comprising at least a third degree of freedom comprising rotation about the longitudinal axis of the shaft. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, the motor unit further configured to translate the shaft along its longitudinal axis. 4. The robotic system of claim 1, the slave manipulator further comprising a wrist member between the distal end of the shaft and the end effector, the wrist member having a longitudinal axis, the end effector rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the wrist. 5. The robotic system of claim 4, the end effector comprising a pair of jaws. 6. The robotic system of claim 4, movement of the slave manipulator being related to movement of the master manipulator by a scale factor. 7. The robotic system of claim 4, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force feedback from said surgical manipulator to said master manipulator. 8. The robotic system of claim 4, the at least two degrees of freedom comprising two lateral degrees of freedom. 9. The robotic system of claim 8, the master manipulator engageable with an operator's hand, the master manipulator configured to sense movement of the operator's hand, the robotic system further comprising: a display apparatus configured to display an image of the slave manipulator to the operator's eye, the location of the master manipulator coincident with the image of the slave manipulator displayed to the operator's eye. 10. The robotic system of claim 8, the slave manipulator further comprising a wrist member between the distal end of the shaft and the end effector, the wrist member having a longitudinal axis, the end effector rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the wrist. 11. The robotic system of claim 8, the end effector comprising a pair of jaws. 12. The robotic system of claim 8, movement of the slave manipulator being related to movement of the master manipulator by a scale factor. 13. The robotic system of claim 8, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force feedback from said surgical manipulator to said master manipulator. 14. The robotic system of claim 8, further comprising a laparoscope for viewing organs within a human body cavity. 15. The robotic system of claim 8, the master manipulator engageable with an operator's hand, the master manipulator configured to sense movement of the operator's hand, the robotic system further comprising: a display apparatus configured to display an image of the slave manipulator to the operator's eye, the location of the master manipulator coincident with the image of the slave manipulator displayed to the operator's eye. 16. The robotic system of claim 8, further comprising: a second master manipulator; a second slave manipulator comprising an elongate shaft comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the shaft having a reference point located between the proximal and distal ends, the slave manipulator further comprising an end effector coupled to the distal end of the shaft; a second motor unit coupled to the proximal end of the shaft, the motor unit configured to translate movement of the second master manipulator into corresponding movement of the distal end of the shaft by moving the proximal end of the shaft in at least two degrees of freedom, said movement in at least two degrees of freedom coordinated such that said reference point is fixed in space during movement of the proximal end of the shaft. 17. The robotic system of claim 16, wherein a surgeon can control the master manipulator through the surgeon's left hand; and the surgeon can control the second master manipulator through the surgeon's right hand. 18. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein said master manipulator comprises master grippers, and said end effector comprises grippers that can open or close in response to said master grippers being opened or closed. 19. A surgical apparatus comprising: a master manipulator; and a slave manipulator comprising an elongate shaft comprising a proximal end and a distal end, the shaft having a reference point located between the proximal and distal ends, the slave manipulator further comprising an end effector coupled to the distal end of the shaft; the proximal end of the shaft movable in at least two degrees of freedom, the at least two degrees of freedom coordinated such that said reference point is fixed in space during movement of the proximal end of the shaft, said movement in at least two degrees of freedom comprising translating the proximal end of the shaft in at least two degrees of freedom to pivot the shaft about the reference point; the slave manipulator further comprising a wrist member between the distal end of the shaft and the end effector, the wrist member having a longitudinal axis, the end effector rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the wrist. 20. The surgical apparatus of claim 19, the end effector comprising a pair of jaws. 21. The surgical apparatus of claim 19, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force feedback from said surgical manipulator to said master manipulator. 22. The surgical apparatus of claim 19, further comprising motors for turning said shaft about its longitudinal axis. 