A storage device processing system that includes at least one automated transporter, at least one rack accessible by the at least one automated transporter, and multiple test slots housed by the at least one rack. Each test slot is configured to receive a storage device for testing. The storage device processing system includes a conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by the at least one automated transporter. The conveyor receives and transports the storage device thereon. The at least one automated transporter is configured to transfer the storage device between the conveyor and one of the test slots of the at least one rack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device processing system comprising: at least one automated transporter; at least one rack accessible by the at least one automated transporter; multiple test slots housed by the at least one rack, each test slot being configured to receive a storage device for testing; and a conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by the at least one automated transporter, the conveyor receiving and transporting the storage device thereon; wherein the at least one automated transporter is configured to transfer the storage device between the conveyor and one of the test slots of the at least one rack. 2. The storage device processing system of claim 1, further comprising a controller in communication with the at least one automated transporter and the at least one rack, the controller configured to control the at least one automated transporter and coordinate movement of the storage device within the storage device processing system. 3. The storage device processing system of claim 2, further comprising an identification reader in communication with the controller and configured to read an identifier on at least one of the storage device, and a storage device transporter for transferring of the storage device by the at least one automated transporter. 4. The storage device processing system of claim 2, further comprising a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying at least one storage device on the conveyor. 5. The storage device processing system of claim 3, wherein the identification reader is disposed on at least one of a manipulator disposed on the at least one automated transporter for transferring the storage device, a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the conveyor. 6. The storage device processing system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the conveyor. 7. The storage device processing system of claim 1, further comprising a guide system configured to support multiple automated transporters that move along the guide system to service test slots of the at least one rack. 8. The storage device processing system of claim 1, wherein the at least one automated transporter defines a work zone encompassing multiple test slots of the at least one rack for servicing. 9. The storage device processing system of claim 8, wherein the work zone of each automated transporter is defined by an operating envelope of the respective automated transporter. 10. The storage device processing system of claim 8, wherein the work zone of each automated transporter is defined by a controller in communication with the respective automated transporter. 11. A method of transferring storage devices within a storage device processing system, the method comprising: receiving a storage device on a conveyor arranged in a loop around and being accessible by at least one automated transporter; actuating the at least one automated transporter to retrieve the storage device from the conveyor; and actuating the at least one automated transporter to deliver the retrieved storage device to a test slot of the storage device processing system and to insert the storage device in the test slot. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving the storage device on the conveyor at a loading station and removing the storage device from the conveyor at an unloading station. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: actuating the at least one automated transporter to retrieve the storage devices from the test slot; and actuating the at least one automated transporter to deliver the retrieved storage device to the conveyor. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising reading an identifier on at least one of: the storage device, a storage device transporter for transferring of the storage device by the at least one automated transporter, and a storage device fixture for receiving and carrying the storage device on the conveyor for tracking movement of the identifier within the processing system. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising reading the identifier with an identification reader disposed on at least one of a manipulator disposed on the at least one automated transporter for transferring the storage device, a loading station for receiving the storage device onto the conveyor and an unloading station for removal of the storage device from the conveyor. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving the storage device in a storage device fixture disposed on the conveyor. 17. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining a work zone of the at least one automated transporter, the work zone encompassing multiple test slots of the at least one rack for servicing by the at least one automated transporter. 