The use of microfluidic structures enables high throughput screening of protein crystallization. In one embodiment, an integrated combinatoric mixing chip allows for precise metering of reagents to rapidly create a large number of potential crystallization conditions, with possible crystal formations observed on chip. In an alternative embodiment, the microfluidic structures may be utilized to explore phase space conditions of a particular protein crystallizing agent combination, thereby identifying promising conditions and allowing for subsequent focused attempts to obtain crystal growth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for investigating crystallization comprising: a microfluidic formulator comprising a microfluidic chamber having a rotary flow chamber configured to receive a crystallization target and a precipitant; a light source configured to illuminate the microfluidic chamber; and a light detector configured to receive light transmitted through the microfluidic chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a peristaltic pump actuable to flow the crystallization target and crystallizing agent through the rotary flow chamber. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the detector comprises a plurality of pixels configured to receive light transmitted through a portion of the rotary flow chamber. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the detector comprises a charge coupled device. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a processor configured to receive an electronic signal from the light detector indicating an intensity of light transmitted through the chamber and received on the pixel, the processor comprising a computer readable storage medium having recorded instructions to calculate from the electronic signal a standard deviation of pixel intensity of light transmitted through the portion, and to compare the standard deviation to a background value recorded in an absence of the crystallization target. 6. An apparatus for investigating crystallization comprising: a chip holder for holding a microfluidic chamber having a rotary flow chamber configured to receive a crystallization target and a precipitant; a light source configured to illuminate the microfluidic chamber; and a light detector configured to receive light transmitted through the microfluidic chamber. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the detector comprises a charge coupled device. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising a processor adapted to receive an electronic signal from the light detector indicating an intensity of light transmitted through a microfluidic chamber. 