A manipulator, such as for use in medical procedures, is provided. The manipulator includes a body and a first actuator system connected to the body at a first attachment point and capable of moving the first attachment point with at least three degrees of freedom. A second actuator system is connected to the body at a second attachment point and capable of moving the second attachment point with at least three degrees of freedom. A third actuator system is integrated with the body and is capable of moving at least a portion of the body with at least one degree of freedom.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A manipulator comprising first and second actuator systems each including three or more powered actuators, each powered actuator being capable of actuating a separate movement of at least a portion of the respective actuator system without any movement of the other actuator system, both the first and second actuator systems comprising serial actuator systems with each including first and second rotary joint actuators arranged in series and a four-bar linkage arranged in series with the two rotary joint actuators with one corner of each of the four-bar linkages comprising a third rotary joint actuator for driving motion of the respective four-bar linkage; and a body supported by the first and second actuator systems at first and second attachment points, respectively, such that the first and second actuator systems are capable of manipulating the body in five degrees of freedom. 2. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the respective corner of each four-bar linkage that comprises the third rotary joint actuator is the corner closest to the respective first and second rotary joint actuators so as to minimize the rotational inertia of the respective first or second actuator system. 3. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein each of the third rotary joint actuators defines a respective third rotary axis and wherein a portion of the respective four bar linkage is arranged on a first side of the third rotary axis to help counterbalance the body and another portion of the respective first or second actuator system that are arranged on an opposing second side of the third rotary axis. 4. The manipulator of claim 1 further comprising a third actuator system having first and second ends, the first end attached to the body, wherein the second end is movable relative to the body with at least one degree of freedom. 5. The manipulator of claim 4 wherein the third actuator system is a rotary actuator supported on the body for rotating at least a portion of the body about a rotary axis. 6. The manipulator of claim 4 wherein the body includes a tool mount and the tool mount comprises a portion of the body moved by the third actuator system. 7. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the second attachment point comprises a three degree of freedom joint. 8. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the first attachment point comprises a two degree of freedom joint. 9. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the first attachment point comprises a two degree of freedom joint and the second attachment point comprises a three degree of freedom joint. 10. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein each of the four-bar linkages includes an arm that connects to the body at the respective attachment point. 11. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the plurality of rotary joint actuators are driven via respective gear drives. 12. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the plurality of rotary joint actuators are driven via respective cable drives. 13. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the plurality of rotary joint actuators are driven via respective chain drives. 14. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the plurality of rotary joint actuators are driven via respective friction drives. 15. The manipulator of claim 14 wherein the friction drives are belt drives. 16. The manipulator of claim 14 wherein the friction drive is a cable drive. 