A system and method for sealing around openings in a telephone handset casing in which externally facing components are positioned. An exemplary method comprises applying a bead of liquid sealant around the opening in a telephone handset casing, allowing the bead to partially cure to form a skin yet still having a malleable consistency, and placing the externally facing component against the bead to deform the bead in conformance with the surface of the component, to provide a close seal between the casing and the component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for sealing an opening of a telephone handset casing comprising: robotically dispensing a bead of sealant in liquid form around a perimeter of the opening on the inside of the casing; allowing the bead to partially cure until the bead forms a skin, yet is still malleable, wherein allowing the bead to partially cure comprises waiting about 20-30 minutes before placing the component over the opening; and placing a component over the opening from inside the casing, such that the component contacts the bead and deforms the bead to conform to the component. 2. The method of claim 1, the component comprising a liquid crystal display. 3. The method of claim 1, the sealant comprising silicone sealant. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sealant has a skin-over time of about 10-15 minutes at 25.degree. C. and 50% relative humidity. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein placing a component over the opening comprises placing the component such that the bead deforms around an edge of the component and contacts both a face of the component that generally spans the opening and also the edge of the component that is generally perpendicular to the face. 6. A method for assembling a telephone handset, the method comprising: providing a casing front having an opening, the casing front having an interior and an exterior side; robotically dispensing a bead of sealant in liquid form around a perimeter of the opening on the interior side of the casing front; allowing the bead to partially cure until the bead forms a skin, yet is still malleable, wherein allowing the bead to partially cure comprises waiting about 20-30 minutes before placing the component over the opening; placing a liquid crystal display over the opening on the interior side of the casing front, such that the liquid crystal display contacts the bead and deforms the bead to conform the bead to the liquid crystal display; adhering a transparent cover to the exterior side of the casing front over the opening and the liquid crystal display by applying an adhesive between the transparent cover and the casing front, wherein the adhesive and the bead seal a space between the liquid crystal display and the transparent cover; and affixing a casing back to the casing front. 7. The method of claim 6, the sealant comprising silicone sealant. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the sealant has a skin-over time of about 10-15 minutes at 25.degree. C. and 50% relative humidity. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein adhering the transparent cover comprises applying double-sided adhesive tape between the transparent cover and the casing front. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein adhering the transparent cover comprises applying a liquid adhesive between the transparent cover and the casing front. 11. The method of claim 6, the sealant comprising self-growth foam. 12. The method of claim 6, wherein robotically dispensing a bead of sealant comprises dispensing the sealant in a continuous line around the perimeter of the opening. 13. The method of claim 6, wherein the bead is applied within about 0.5 to 1.0 mm of an edge of the opening. 14. The method of claim 6, wherein the casing front comprises a groove or recess into which the sealant is dispensed. 15. The method of claim 6, wherein the liquid crystal display and the casing front have cooperative guide members that align the two parts as the liquid crystal display is placed over the opening. 16. The method of claim 6, wherein the bead conforms to the liquid crystal display such that the bead contacts three surfaces of the liquid crystal display, including a face of the liquid crystal display that generally spans the opening, an edge of the liquid crystal display that extends around the perimeter of the liquid crystal display and is generally perpendicular to the face, and a back surface of the liquid crystal display. 17. A method for assembling a plurality of telephone handsets, comprising: providing a plurality of casing fronts, each casing front having an opening, an interior side, and an exterior side; and for each casing front of the plurality of casing fronts: robotically dispensing a bead of sealant in liquid form around a perimeter of the opening on the inside of the casing; allowing the bead to partially cure until the bead forms a skin, yet is still malleable, wherein allowing the bead to partially cure comprises waiting about 20-30 minutes before placing the component over the opening; and placing a component over the opening from inside the casing, such that the component contacts the bead and deforms the bead to conform to the component. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the placing a component comprises placing a liquid crystal display over the opening on the interior side of the casing front, such that the liquid crystal display contacts the bead and deforms the bead to conform the bead to the liquid crystal display. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising, for each casing front of the plurality of casing fronts, adhering a transparent cover to the exterior side of the casing front over the opening and the liquid crystal display by applying an adhesive between the transparent cover and the casing front, wherein the adhesive and the bead seal a space between the liquid crystal display and the transparent cover. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein, for each casing front of the plurality of casing fronts, the bead conforms to the component such that the bead contacts three surfaces of the component, including a face of the component that generally spans the opening, an edge of the component that extends around the perimeter of the component and is generally perpendicular to the face, and a back surface of the component. 