A weather resistant modular sensor and computing platform reduces costs and enhances versatility of sensor systems. Rapidly evolving electronic technology results in hyper-obsolescence wherein sensor systems that are state of the art technology when designed, fall behind the art quickly as new transducers, batteries and components are developed. A cylindrical shaped modular system provides an architecture for up-grading sensors, batteries, special modules, communications, and control. A modular architecture extends the life cycle of a system and avoids hyper-obsolescence and the requirement to design a complete new system to incorporate new technology. Modularity and low cost manufacturing methods enable the practical definition of a cylindrical computer. The cylinder shaped enclosures have on their ends a common connection interface to which modules may be added. This provides a long system life cycle and wide ranging versatility. The size of the platform is not restricted. Larger systems are capable of supporting more sophisticated processing. A scaled up version of the modular platform provides an outdoor weather resistant community computing server.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A scalable architecture computing platform deployable in a harsh environment comprising a modular computer platform comprising a plurality of modules, wherein said scalable architecture is retained in a scaled-up platform to provide multi-user communications and provide Internet protocol services to multiple users in a community. 2. The scalable architecture computing platform of claim 1, comprising an interface connection module for connecting communications lines to resident computer users of said computing platform. 3. The scalable architecture computing platform of claim 1, wherein said computing platform is networked to other computing platform units. 4. The scalable architecture computing platform of claim 3, derived by placing modules on poles separately and making electrical connections between them with cables. 5. The scalable architecture computing platform of claim 1, comprising an external connection interface module for interfacing fiber optic or other media types. 6. The scalable architecture computing platform of claim 1, comprising an external connection interface module for making network connections to metro cable broadband systems. 7. A modular platform utility pole computer comprising the scalable architecture computing platform of claim 1 and electrical power and communications connectivity to a local area and a wide area. 8. The scalable architecture platform computer of claim 1, installed at a delivery point comprising a buried container. 9. The scalable architecture computing platform of claim 1, installed in a service area of a multi-resident building to supply residents of said building with communications connections. 10. A method of delivering digital services to a community wherein weather-proof electronic modules comprising computers capable of executing software that can process digital and analog signals are connected with local networks and wide area networks and are located in proximity to users in said community, wherein said users are connected via signaling means to said electronic modules and derive services delivered by communications media connected to said electronic modules and wherein said weather-proof electronic modules comprise a scalable architecture computing platform as claimed in claim 1. 11. In combination: (A) a utility pole providing support for utility lines and services, and (B) a weather-resistant computer that provides utility computer services to a plurality of users wherein said weather-resistant computer comprises a scalable architecture computing platform as claimed in claim 1. 12. A method of delivering digital services to a community wherein weather-proof electronic modules comprising computers capable of executing software that can process digital and analog signals are connected with local networks and wide area networks and are located in proximity to users in said community, wherein said users are connected via signaling means to said electronic modules and derive Internet protocol services delivered by communications media connected to said electronic modules. 13. In combination: (A) a utility pole providing support for utility lines and services, and (B) a weather-resistant computer that provides utility computer services and Internet protocol services to a plurality of users. 14. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture comprising: modular computing platforms supported on utility poles and outdoor mounting structures to deliver and support a computing and communications system for distributing computer services and communications services to a community of users wherein computer system resources are attached to public utility support poles, said system resources being connected in a local area and comprising computer servers, ancillary modules interconnected to operate as a system, and addressable nodes, said nodes comprising, routers, bridges and digital storage resources and operating systems, wherein said community of users gain network access using standard protocols, said protocols being supported on local area networks and Internet networks, said users being connected by digital circuits to modular electronics enclosures using digital media of fiber optic cable or twisted pair wires or coaxial cable or wireless transceivers, power wires, infrared, or any combination of said digital media, and computer system resources are added or removed from said scalable architecture as required to customize said distributed computer services by adding or removing modular computer platforms and computer system resource modules at outdoor service sites. 15. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 14, wherein a computing platform is networked to multiple computing platforms over connections made using power wires, broad band wireless, coaxial cable, fiber optic, laser, twisted pair, infrared transceivers, or parabolic dish antenna, said connections being connected to interchangeable modules easily interchanged to configure system capabilities and capacity and readily incorporate changes to quickly accommodate demand of said multi-users for services and thereby create a versatile interconnected multi-computer network architecture scalable to user needs. 16. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 15, wherein modules of said multiple computing platforms comprise spread spectrum radio frequency transceivers whereby said modules provide digital signaling circuits between platform nodes and standalone addressable modules of said scalable architecture, said transceivers facilitating rapid delivery of service when scaling up capacity of said installation, said standalone modules serially communicating with said multiple computing platforms. 17. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 16 wherein said transceivers comprise addressable modules with dedicated functions, said functions include communication routers, mass storage modules, analog to digital conversion, digital to analog conversion, digital signal processors, software radio, satellite transceiver, camera modules, video conversion modules, frequency specific RF transceiver modules, weather sensor modules, biosensors, chemical sensors, data encryption, network gateways, spectrometer, motion sensors, and accommodation modules for testing new transducers, said modules being detected upon attachment and integrated automatically. 18. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 15, wherein subsystem modules are mounted remotely from direct connection to said computing platform bus, said subsystem modules being located separately, and digital signal connections join said subsystem modules to system processors, and said digital connections comprise fiber optic, coaxial cable twisted pair, power lines, wireless, or laser light. 19. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 15, comprising an external connection interface module for interfacing any instance of fiber optic, coaxial cable twisted pair, power lines, wireless, or laser light media types to neighborhood users. 20. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 19 comprising a modular computing platform which is installed at a delivery point comprising a buried container, and said external connection interface module media is buried to connect with the platform. 21. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 19, wherein said external connection interface module includes a software communications interface module for processing protocol layers above the physical layer of the OSI and/or TCP/IP protocol stack connecting users to platform applications, routing user packets assigning user addresses, and establishing virtual circuits to remote sites. 22. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 21, wherein said software communications interface module provides a bridge to connect user hardware and software to local and wide area network services. 23. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 21 wherein said software communications interface module receives a high speed entertainment transmission via a satellite receiver module and said communications interface module provides a bridge to adapt said transmission content to be delivered to a user requiring delivery of said transmission content to be in a protocol for a handheld device. 24. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 21 wherein said software communications interface module software provides internet universal resource locator addresses to said user hardware and software. 25. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 15, comprising an external connection interface module for making connections to metro broadband systems, cable entertainment, video broadcast sources, satellite broadcast, and Internet video broadcasts. 26. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 15 comprising a pole mounting bracket to facilitate upgrading and customizing the scale and capacity of a local area installation, said mounting bracket configured with a combination of support rings that will accept a cylindrical enclosure module that bears a lip at the top of said enclosure such that the cylinder will fit into the support ring and can be lowered into position until said lip meets the support ring of the bracket so that the lip rests upon the support ring, said support ring being axially connected to a clamp on said pole whereby the support ring can swing away from the pole and clear access to an above similar support ring that will also swing away and allow access to the bottom of a media connection module, said mounting bracket also comprising an alignment wedge opening that will accept a male formed wedge when inserted and will hold and support the modular computer module and align it to meet with other modules and will facilitate ease of upgrade and maintenance of scalable architecture. 27. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 15 wherein said modular computing platforms are cylindrical. 28. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 14, wherein a modular computing platform is installed in a service area of a multi-resident building to supply residents of said building with said platform communications services. 29. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 14, wherein a modular computing platform comprises an interface for connecting to telephone service, low voltage power lines, metro cable systems, entertainment services, residence electronics, a residence consumer bus, residential routers, residential digital voice, business LANS, PCS networks, laser links, or micro-wave links, and said computing platform further comprises a parabolic antenna for satellite connectivity. 30. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 14 wherein a modular computing platform comprises a high speed digital to analog and analog to digital conversion interface connected to user residences. 31. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 14 wherein a modular computing platform comprises a CODEC module for conversion of audio transfers. 32. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture as claimed in claim 14 wherein a modular computing platform comprises an interface and software for connecting media to a user's computer, said user's computer comprising an interface and software to transfer data directly to and from said computing platform, and said platform comprising an interface and software to transfer data to and from the user's hardware computer memory, wherein said data transfers from platform memory to memory in the user terminal and from user memory to platform memory to provide an integrated design bonding users hardware to platform hardware and transforming the network into a user's computer. 33. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture comprising a water resistant modular electronics enclosure located in a neighborhood to provide computer services and Internet network connectivity to said neighborhood residents, said enclosure comprising a climate control subsystem to monitor ambient conditions within said enclosure, wherein when needed said subsystem will actuate climate control features installed within said enclosure to modify said conditions to different conditions as controlled by said subsystem. 34. An outdoor scalable computing and communications architecture comprising modules electrically and mechanically connected together at end fittings, said electrical connection comprising a computer bus, said bus integrating a module into a platform which is structured to meet mission specific functionality, said scalability comprising a modular form factor of electronics in cylindrical modules of varying size, the modularity creating versatility to serve widely diverse missions delivered to harsh environments, wherein internal circuit boards are cushioned by a shock absorber in the bottom of a module to survive shock when dropped from a height, said platform being capable of surviving a mission as a projectile launched into a crime scene for intelligence collection or being capable of being scaled up to providing computing services to large groups of multimedia computer and communications users. 35. A method of constructing and operating a scalable architecture outdoor installation of modular computers mounted in weather resistant enclosures comprising configuring a multi-user communications and computing facility to supply services to multiple users in a local area whereby users are connected to said services by wireless, coaxial cable, twisted pair, laser, power lines or a combination of media types, said users deriving service connections to Internet, audio codecs, routers, computer applications, computer servers, digital storage and retrieval, said installation effectuating a scalable architecture that can be scaled up to derive additional capacity as needed to meet growth of demands of said multiple users and provide said users with new and evolving services, said architecture comprising interchangeable modules directly connected to platform computer buses and ancillary peripheral modules in communication with said platform computers over serial busses, said modules comprising addresses, and said scalable architecture comprising system software operating to spontaneously recognize a newly added module upon said module being attached to said installation, said newly added module comprising a binary address wherein said system software recognizes said address and configures said system software to thereafter execute proper subroutines to integrate said module being attached into said multi-user communications and computing facility to customize said scalable architecture outdoor installation of modular computers so that said scalable architecture functions to facilitate change, readily adapts said installation to user demand, and facilitates integration of new technology and thereby avoids hyper-obsolescence and extends the system life cycle. 36. A method of constructing and operating a scalable architecture outdoor installation of modular computers as claimed in claim 35 further comprising network control software operated by a platform sponsor from a remote location to monitor and control the configuration of the scalable architecture, wherein multiple platforms are configured and programmed to operate as a resource sharing system where platforms share access to resources and provide backup services to peer processors producing a mesh of digital electronic services delivered to multiple users wherein the network becomes the computer and single points of failure are avoided, said control software operated remotely being able to shift resources on or off of said scalable architecture outdoor installation of modular computers upon receiving a command from said sponsor, said platform being able to execute said command, modify its internally programmed mission, adjust a threshold used as a margin for event reporting, manipulate an actuator, or accept new programming. 37. A method of constructing and operating a scalable architecture outdoor installation of modular computers as claimed in claim 35 wherein said serial busses used are I2C, USB, CE, sonnet, CAN, and protocols processed are 802.1 through 802.22 inclusive, internet protocols, and LAN protocols. 