The invention relates to a robotic device for the positioning and orientation of a platform that is connected thereto by means of articulated support structures forming parallel mechanical links, each in the form of a serial kinematic chain of articulations that are interconnected by support segments. The inventive device (1) is characterized in that it comprises three articulated parallel mechanical links comprising: (i) two opposing, symmetrical and co-planar support structures (4 and 5), and (ii) a third support structure (6) which is located in a plane that is perpendicular to the plane containing the support structures (4 and 5). According to the invention, the articulated links formed by the three supports structures (4, 5 and 6) enable the controlled movement of points belonging to the platform (2) on a surface corresponding to a spherical or ellipsoidal cap and, preferably, essentially to a half-sphere, thereby providing at least five degrees of freedom.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic device for positioning and orientating a platform having a coordinate system (O.sub.f, x.sub.f, y.sub.f, z.sub.f) and being movable relative to a base having a coordinate system (O.sub.0, x.sub.0, y.sub.0, z.sub.0) the platform being located displaced from the base and being connected to the latter by first, second and third articulated leg structures forming three parallel mechanical connections, of which each one includes a series of leg segments connected to each other, in pairs, by pivoting joints each one having at least one pivoting axis, the opposite end portions of each of the three leg structures being connected by joints each having at least one pivot axis with the platform and with the base in predetermined connection points, wherein: the respective pivot axes of the pivoting joints of the first and second leg structures with the platform and the base are configured to define a first common axis of rotation (.DELTA..sub.1) between the base and the two opposite leg structures and a second common axis of rotation (.DELTA..sub.2) between the two opposite leg structures and the platform, said common pivot axes (.DELTA..sub.1 and .DELTA..sub.2) are coplanar in a first plane, pivot axes (X.sub.1; X.sub.2) of the pivoting joints connecting the leg segments of the first and second leg structures are all parallel between each other and perpendicular to a second plane, the first and second planes are not mutually perpendicular, the third articulated leg structure is connected, in an articulated manner, with the platform in a connection point not aligned with the connection points of the first and second leg structures with said platform and with the base in a connection point not aligned with the connection points the first and second leg structures with said base, parallel rotary joints provided by the first, second, and third leg structures permit a controlled determination of a position of the origin (O.sub.f) of the coordinate system (O.sub.f, x.sub.f, y.sub.f, z.sub.f) assigned to the platform and the orientation the platform coordinate system (O.sub.f, x.sub.f, y.sub.f, z.sub.f) relative to the coordinate system (O.sub.0, x.sub.0, y.sub.0, z.sub.0) assigned to the base, such that at least five degrees of freedom are provided. 2. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein each the first and second leg structures is composed of four leg segments assembled in series, successively from a first to a fourth, and connected to each other, in pairs, by three pivoting joints around axes (X1; X2) perpendicular to the second plane. 3. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein each of the first and second leg structures is composed of three leg segments assembled in series, successively from first to a third, and connected to each other, in pairs, by two joints pivoting around axes (Xl; X2) perpendicular to the second plane and in that the leg segments include telescopic segments. 4. The robotic device according to claim 2, wherein the planes are common. 5. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the first and second leg structures constitute structures of opposite and symmetrical legs, with pivoting joints respectively located in a symmetrical manner and the leg segments are respectively of identical form, the longitudinal axes of all the above mentioned leg segments, or at least axes of the mechanical connections respectively provided by the latter, being located in at least one of the first plane, the second plane and a plane parallel with the one of the first and second planes. 6. The robotic device according to claim 2, wherein a first of the two opposite leg structures comprises two pivoting joints with regulated and controlled movements and the second of the two opposite leg structures has a single pivoting joint with controlled and regulated movement. 7. The robotic device according to claim 3, wherein the two telescopic segments are adjustable in length in a controlled way, and one of the pivoting joints of the one of the first and second leg structures is regulated and controlled in movement. 8. The robotic device according to claim 6, wherein two mechanical and parallel kinematics connections formed by the first and second opposite leg structures connecting the base to the platform include three controlled parameters for the first leg structure, a distance between the axis of a first of the pivoting joints connecting the first and the second leg segments and the axis of a second of the pivoting joints connecting the third and fourth leg segments and an angle (.alpha.) between a straight line connecting said first and second pivoting joints and defining the length and a straight line connecting the first and second pivoting joint of the first leg structure to the corresponding joint of the second leg structure, and for the second leg structure, a distance between the axis of the joint connecting the first and the second of the leg segments and the axis to the joint connecting the third and the fourth leg segments. 9. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the connection point of the third leg structure with the platform is located apart from a median plane (O.sub.f, x.sub.f, z.sub.f) of the two connection points of the first and second leg structures with said platform, perpendicular to the axis of rotation (.DELTA..sub.2) between first and second let structures and the platform, and in that the connection point of the third leg structure with the base is located apart from a median plane (O.sub.0, x.sub.0, z.sub.0) of the two connection points of the first and second leg structures with said base, perpendicular to the axis of rotation (.DELTA..sub.1) between the first and second leg structures and the base. 10. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the third leg structure is composed of three leg segments assembled in series successively from a first to a third, and connected to each other, in pairs, by two pivoting joints around axes parallel to each other. 11. The robotic device according to claim 9, wherein the third leg structure is composed of two leg segments connected to each other by a pivoting joint around an axis and one of the two leg segments is telescopic. 12. The robotic device according to claim 10, wherein the longitudinal axes of the leg segments are located in one or more planes perpendicular to the pivot axis or axes. 13. The robotic device according to claim 6, wherein the opposite end leg segments of the third leg structure are, each one, connected by a non-driven joint respectively to the base and the platform, and the joint connecting the first segment to the base is of a knee type and in that the joint connecting the third segment to the platform is of a type pivoting around an axis perpendicular to the pivot axis (.DELTA..sub.2) between the first and second leg structures and the platform. 14. The robotic device according to claim 10, wherein a mechanical and kinematic connection formed by the third leg structure includes two controlled parameters, namely, a distance between a center of a free rotation of the knee joint and the axis of the pivoting joint connecting the first and the second leg segments or the second and the third leg segments and the angle (.beta.) between a first straight line connecting the first segment to base pivoting joint and the first leg segment to second leg segment pivoting joint and a straight line contained in a plane containing said straight line defining the distance and parallel to the plane(s) containing longitudinal axes of the leg segments and/or of the corresponding mechanical connections connecting the axis of said first leg segment to second leg segment pivoting joint to the straight line connecting the pivoting joints of the first and second leg structures. 15. The robotic device according to claim 10, wherein the two pivoting joints connecting the leg segments are both driven and controlled in movement. 16. The robotic device according to claim 11, wherein one of the pivoting joints connecting the leg segments is driven and controlled in movement and that a telescopic one of the leg segments is adjustable in length in a controlled manner. 17. The robotic device according to claim 13, wherein the joint of the knee type includes three pivoting or rotating joints in juxtaposed association comprising axes of concurrent rotation. 18. The robotic device according to claim 6, further including actuators for driving and controlling respective movements of the joints which drive and control movement of the three leg structures include at least one of piezoelectric and ultrasonic drives. 19. The robotic device according to claim 7, wherein the telescopic leg segments include at least one of electric and piezoelectric extendable cylinders and the pivoting joints that are driven and controlled in movement and include at least one of piezoelectric and ultrasonic drives. 20. The robotic device according to claim 18, wherein each drive includes at least one of an ultrasonic motor and a piezoelectric motor associated with a reducer and an incremental encoder, each one of these drives being mounted in a corresponding casing and controlled in accordance with each other by a central operation and control processing unit which collects the data delivered by the encoders. 21. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the leg segments as well as the platform and the base are made out of a rigid material and compatible with x-ray medical imaging procedures, and the pivoting joints of the three leg structures include at least one of sleeves and annular bearings. 22. The robotic device according to claim 1, further including a spatial reference and multi-axial indexing part. 23. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the platform comprises one or more mounting and attaching sites for a device for retention and axial displacement and controlled depression of at least one of a needle, an elongated object, a device for producing a jet, and a device for producing a rectilinear beam and the base presents an appreciably annular form with a central opening located under the platform and with side extensions forming a support structure. 24. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the base is provided with an attachment structure, for assured mounting of the device on the abdomen of a subject. 25. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the base is made of two assembled parts in a removable manner with rotational indexing around a central opening including a first part in a shape of a ring connected to the leg structures and a second part delimiting the central opening, integral with side extensions of the base and comprising, around said opening, a circular groove for the reception of the first annular part. 26. The robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the base has a covering adapted to conform with a body on which it is supported. 27. A needle-carrying apparatus, for positioning and controlled depression of a needle in an alive subject disposed in a medical imaging apparatus comprising: a robotic device according to claim 1; and a needle carrying device for retaining and controlling axial displacement of a needle, said retaining device being equipped with at least a sensor of force acting in an axial direction and being mounted rigidly on the platform of the robotic device, the needle carrying device and the robotic device being controlled by a data-processing unit, in correlation with views taken by a medical imaging scanner. 28. The robotic device according to claim 7, wherein two mechanical and parallel kinematics connections formed by the first and second opposite leg structures connecting the base to the platform include three controlled parameters, namely, for the first of the two leg structures, a distance between the axis of the pivoting joint connecting the first and the second leg segments and the axis of the pivoting joint connecting the third and fourth leg segments, and, angle (.beta.) between a straight line connecting said two joints and defining the length and the straight line connecting the last of the above mentioned joints of the first leg structure to the corresponding joint of the second leg structure, and for the second of the two leg structures, a distance between the axis of the joint connecting the first and the second of the leg segments and the axis to the joint connecting the third and the fourth leg segments. 29. The robotic device according to claim 11, wherein the longitudinal axes of the leg segments are located in one or more planes perpendicular to the one or more pivot axes. 30. The robotic device according to claim 14, wherein the joint of the knee type includes three pivoting or rotating joints in juxtaposed association comprising axes of concurrent rotation. 31. The robotic device according to claim 15 further including actuators for driving and controlling respective movements of the joints which drive and control movement of the three leg structures include at least one of piezoelectric and ultrasonic drives. 32. The robotic device according to claim 16, wherein the telescopic leg segments include at least one of electric and piezoelectric extendable cylinders and the pivoting joints that are driven and controlled in movement and include at least one of piezoelectric and ultrasonic drives. 