The present invention provides a system and method for the simultaneous detection of multiple analytes in a sample. The detection system includes a housing that holds a reagent carousel rotatably coupled thereto. Further included in the housing is an incubator carousel rotatably coupled thereto. The housing also includes magnetic material that is associated with the incubation carousel for assisting in separation beads from reagent and wash solution. A robot, associated with the housing is configured to manipulate at least either the reagent carousel or the incubator carousel and transfer materials therebetween. Reaction vessels hold samples and reaction vessels handlers move the reaction vessels. Sample analysis is determined by at least one laser based detector.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A multiple analyte detection system, comprising: a chassis; a reagent storage assembly having a rotatable reagent carousel coupled to said chassis; a rotatable incubator carousel assembly coupled to said chassis; at least one automated reaction vessel handler coupled to said chassis and configured to deliver a reaction vessel to said incubator carousel assembly; and a detector module attached to said chassis, wherein said detector module comprises a flow cytometer; wherein said rotatable incubator carousel assembly comprises: an inner incubator carousel configured to receive a plurality of reaction vessels; and an outer separation carousel; and wherein said outer separation carousel comprises: a reaction vessel receptacle; and at least one magnet for attracting magnetic material within a reaction vessel placed within said reaction vessel receptacle. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said flow cytometer is a dual-beam flow cytometer. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said separation carousel is rotatable around said inner incubator carousel. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said reagent carousel comprises slots configured to contain reagent packs and wherein said reagent packs are accessible by said at least one automated reaction vessel handler without interrupting operation of the system. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising an automated sample handler coupled to said chassis, wherein said sample handler is configured to transfer a sample from a sample container to a reaction vessel in said incubation carousel assembly. 6. The system of claim 5, further comprising an automated rack handling assembly coupled to said chassis, said rack handling assembly configured to manipulate a plurality of racks, each rack holding a plurality of sample containers. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an automated detector transfer assembly configured to transfer a sample from a reaction vessel within said incubator carousel assembly to said detector module for analysis by said detector module. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said detector transfer assembly comprises: a detector transfer robot mounted to said chassis; a reaction vessel holder configured to receive a reaction vessel containing a sample to be analyzed; and a probe coupled to a head of said detector transfer robot, said probe having a lumen configured to aspirate and dispense a volume of the sample. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising a host computer coupled to said chassis, wherein said reagent storage assembly, said incubator carousel assembly, said reaction vessel handler, and said detector module are in electrical communication with the host computer. 10. An apparatus, comprising: a chassis; an automated sample processing module for processing samples; a detector module attached to said chassis, said detector module including an analyzer for analyzing processed samples by flow cytometry; and a host computer communicating with said sample processing module and said detector module, said host computer including a processor and memory including instructions for controlling said sample processing module and said detector module, wherein said sample processing module comprises: a rack handling assembly configured to manipulate a plurality of racks, each rack holding a plurality of sample containers; an incubation carousel assembly rotatably coupled to said chassis, wherein said incubation carousel assembly comprises an inner incubator carousel and an outer separation carousel, wherein said inner incubator carousel is configured to hold a plurality of reaction vessels, and wherein said outer separation carousel comprises a reaction vessel receptacle and at least one magnet for attracting magnetic material with a reaction vessel placed within said reaction vessel receptacle; a reaction vessel supply assembly for storing and supplying a plurality of reaction vessels; a reaction vessel handler assembly for transferring reaction vessels from said reaction vessel supply assembly to said incubation carousel assembly; a reagent storage assembly including a reagent carousel adapted to hold a plurality of reagent packs; a sample handler having a sample aspiration probe and a sample robot for transferring samples from the plurality of sample containers to the reaction vessels held in said inner incubator carousel and in said reaction vessel receptacle in said outer separation carousel; a reagent handler having a reagent probe and a reagent robot for transferring reagents from the reagent packs; and a detector transfer robot for transferring processed samples to the detector module. 11. The system of claim 1 further comprising a magnetic shield between said inner incubator carousel and said outer separation carousel. 12. The system of claim 4, wherein said reagent carousel comprises 20 or more slots. 