The disclosed technology enables manufacturers to efficiently design and manufacture structural wall panels, floor panels and roof panels from cold-formed steel for use in residential and commercial construction. The panels are individual components that can be installed at a building site to form a structure that includes walls, floor and a roof. Structures may be manufactured in a manufacturing facility and delivered to a construction site for installation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for managing the assembly of a panel for use in steel frame building construction, comprising: receiving structure design information from a computer aided design tool; providing information for the selection and collection of components for the panel, the component selection information being generated in a printable format from a panel library; substantially simultaneously with the collection of the components, providing an information label associated with at least one component of the panel; providing, at an assembly station, assembly instructions for the collected components of the panel, the assembly instructions being generated in a printable format; and tracking the location and stage of construction of the panel through a manufacturing process. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the component selection information comprises at least one of a fabrication drawing and a bill of materials. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the information labels comprise construction information. 4. The process of claim 3, wherein the construction information comprises at least one of part number information, assembly information, tracking information, job number information, bar code information, panel information, geometrical information, user information, and combinations thereof. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein the tracking step comprises entering construction information info an information technology system. 6. The process of claim 5, wherein the information technology system comprises a plurality of user interface terminals. 7. The process of claim 6, wherein the plurality of user interface terminals are associated with a plurality of workstations on an assembly line. 8. The process of claim 6, wherein the information technology system provides further construction information to a user in response to the entering of construction information into a user interface terminal. 9. The process of claim 6, wherein the plurality of user interface terminals comprise at least one of a barcode reader, a touch sensitive screen, a computer terminal, a printer, and combinations thereof. 