An ambulatory vehicle having legs and configured for transporting a load is disclosed. The ambulatory vehicle includes a load that is able to shift the center of gravity of the ambulatory vehicle along a transverse axis and a longitudinal axis of a beam assembly. Additionally, leg assemblies of the ambulatory vehicle are configured to exchange places along the length of the beam assembly. Further, the vehicle is able to perform a number of gaits including a slow stable gait and faster dynamic gaits comprising striding, trotting, and bounding. The ambulatory vehicle is able to navigate rough terrain and steep slopes and navigate submerged.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ambulatory system comprising: a beam assembly; a first leg assembly coupled to the beam assembly, the first leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly and to move in a first direction while coupled to the beam assembly; a second leg assembly coupled to the beam assembly, the second leg assembly configured to move in a second direction while coupled to the beam assembly; a carriage configured to support a load and coupled to the beam assembly, the carriage further configured to move the load in a third direction, the third direction not parallel to first direction or the second direction; and a control mechanism for displacing the carriage, first leg assembly and second leg assembly along the beam assembly, the control mechanism configured to move the first leg assembly, the second leg assembly, and the carriage based on a position of the first leg assembly or the second leg assembly. 2. The ambulatory system of claim 1, wherein the carriage is further configured to position a load along the first direction based on the position of the first leg assembly and the second leg assembly. 3. The ambulatory system of claim 1, wherein the carriage is further configured to position a load along the third direction to maintain a center of gravity of the ambulatory system over the first leg assembly while the second leg assembly exchanges places with the first leg assembly. 4. The ambulatory system of claim 1, wherein the first leg assembly is further configured to move along the first direction while supporting the beam assembly. 5. The ambulatory system of claim 1, wherein the second leg assembly is further configured to move along the second direction while not supporting the beam assembly. 6. The ambulatory system of claim 1, wherein the first leg assembly is further configured to exchange places with the second leg assembly along the first direction while supporting the beam assembly. 7. The ambulatory system of claim 1, wherein the control mechanism includes a processor configured to control movement of the first leg assembly along the first direction, movement of the second leg assembly along the second direction, and a position of the carriage along the third direction. 8. A method for moving a beam assembly, comprising: supporting a beam assembly using a first leg assembly and a second leg assembly, the first leg assembly including a first leg in contact with a surface, the second leg assembly including a second leg in contact with the surface; retracting the second leg such that the second leg is not in contact with the surface; moving the second leg assembly from a first position to a second position along a first axis of the beam assembly; displacing a load from a first position to a second position along a second axis of a beam assembly to maintain a center of gravity of the ambulatory vehicle over the first leg assembly; and extending the leg of the second leg assembly to contact the surface. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising displacing the load along the second axis of the beam assembly while moving the second leg assembly to maintain a center of gravity of the ambulatory vehicle over the footprint of the first leg assembly. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising displacing the load along the first axis of the beam assembly to maintain the center of gravity over the footprint of the first leg assembly while moving the second leg assembly. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising displacing the load to position the center of gravity of the ambulatory vehicle over the first leg assembly or between the first leg assembly and the second leg assembly. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein displacing the load comprises displacing the load along the second axis. 13. The method of claim 8, further comprising rotating the beam assembly around an axis intersecting the first leg assembly. 14. The method of claim 8, further comprising suspending the load from a carriage. 15. An ambulatory system, comprising: a beam assembly; a carriage configured for bearing and shifting a load relative the beam assembly to change a center of gravity of the ambulatory system; a first leg assembly configured for supporting the beam assembly over a travel surface and for retracting a first leg coupled to the first leg assembly from the travel surface; a first track configured for shifting the first leg assembly along a first length of the beam assembly; a first joint for coupling the first leg assembly to the first track and articulating the first leg assembly on the first track; a second leg assembly configured for supporting the beam assembly over the travel surface and for retracting a second leg coupled to the second leg assembly from the travel surface; a second track configured for shifting the second leg assembly along a second length of the beam assembly; a second joint configured for coupling the second leg assembly to the second track and articulating the second leg on the second track; a control mechanism configured for exchanging positions of the first leg assembly and the second leg assembly relative to each other along a length of the beam assembly. 16. The ambulatory system of claim 15, wherein the carriage assembly comprises: an arm configured to extend and retract a load in a radial axis; a bearing configured for rotating the arm about a rotational axis. 17. The ambulatory system of claim 15, wherein the first joint is further configured for rotating the beam assembly horizontally about a vertical axis including the first leg assembly. 18. The ambulatory system of claim 15, wherein the carriage is configured to provide a dynamic center of gravity through shifting of a load. 19. The ambulatory system of claim 15, further comprising a processor configured for controlling: a position of the carriage, shifting of the first leg assembly, articulation of the first leg assembly, shifting of the second leg assembly, and articulation of the second leg assembly. 20. A method for moving a beam assembly, comprising: supporting a beam assembly using a first leg assembly and a second leg assembly, the first leg assembly including a first foot assembly in contact with a surface, the second leg assembly including a second foot assembly in contact with the surface; changing a position of the second leg such that the second foot assembly is above the first foot assembly and in about the same vertical plane as the first foot assembly; moving the second foot assembly from a first position, over the first foot assembly, and to a second position along a first axis of the beam assembly; and extending the leg of the second leg assembly to place the second foot assembly in contact the surface. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising displacing a load along a second axis of the beam assembly while moving the second foot assembly to maintain a center of gravity of the ambulatory vehicle over the first foot assembly. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising rotating the beam assembly around the first foot assembly. 23. An ambulatory system comprising: a first leg rail incorporated in a beam assembly of the ambulatory system and coupled to a first leg assembly, the first leg assembly including a first foot assembly, the first leg assembly configured to support the beam assembly while moving along the first leg rail; a second leg rail incorporated into the beam assembly and positioned along a vertical plane that intersects the first leg rail, the second leg rail coupled to a second leg assembly, the second leg assembly including a second foot assembly and configured to move along the second leg rail; and a control mechanism configured to raise the second foot assembly and move the second leg assembly along the second rail of the beam assembly while the second foot assembly passes over the first foot assembly. 24. The ambulatory system of claim 23, further comprising a carriage configured to support a load and coupled to the beam assembly, the carriage further configured to move the load in a direction not parallel to first leg rail or the second leg rail. 25. The ambulatory system of claim 23, wherein the first leg assembly comprises a joint configured for rotating the beam assembly about a vertical axis including the first foot assembly. 