A substrate transport apparatus including a drive section having at least one drive shaft and at least two scara arms operably coupled to the at least one drive shaft, the at least one drive shaft being a common drive shaft for the at least two scara arms effecting extension and retraction of the at least two scara arms, wherein the at least two scara arms are coupled to each other so that, with the at least one drive shaft coupled to the at least two scara arms, rotation of the drive shaft effects extension and retraction of one of the at least two scara arms substantially independent of motion of another of the at least two scara arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate transport apparatus comprising: a drive section having at least one drive shaft; and at least two scara arms operably coupled to the at least one drive shaft, the at least one drive shaft being a common drive shaft for the at least two scara arms effecting extension and retraction of the at least two scara arms, wherein the at least two scara arms are coupled to each other so that, with the common drive shaft of the at least one drive shaft coupled to the at least two scara arms, rotation of the common drive shaft effects extension and retraction of each of the at least two scara arms substantially independent of motion of another of the at least two scara arms. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the at least two scara arms includes at least two links movably connected to each other, at least one of the links having an end effector for holding a substrate thereon. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the at least two scara arms has an end effector, for holding a substrate therewith, and capable of moving along a common transport path. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a coupling system coupling the at least two scara arms to the common drive shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the coupling system comprises substantially rigid coupling elements movably joined to each other and to each of the at least two scara arms. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein at least one of the coupling elements is movably coupled to the drive section and is driven by the drive shaft. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the at least one coupling element is pivotally mounted to the drive section and drive shaft rotation pivots the at least one coupling element relative to the drive section. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein drive shaft rotation causes the at least one coupling element to pivot relative to the drive section about two axes of rotation. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the two axes are offset and substantially parallel to each other, and wherein the drive section has another axis of rotation offset from at least one of the two axes of rotation. 10. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the coupling system has substantially rigid links movably coupled to each of the at least two scara arms and imparting movement to each of the scara arms when the drive shaft is rotated. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the relationship between scara arm motion and drive shaft rotation is variable over the extension and retraction of each scara arm. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a controller programmed to control motion of the at least two scara arms to maintain substantially steady state motion during extension and retraction. 13. A substrate transport apparatus comprising: a drive section with a drive motor; two articulated arms, each being operably connected to the drive motor for extension and retraction of each arm, and each arm having an end effector adapted for holding and transporting a substrate; and a coupling system having a lost motion system operably coupling both articulated arms to a common drive shaft of the drive motor, the lost motion system being arranged so that the lost motion system operates, when the common drive shaft of the drive motor imparts a torque to the coupling system, to effect extension and retraction of one of the two articulated arms substantially independent of movement of another of the two articulated arms; wherein the coupling system comprises substantially rigid coupling elements movably joined to each other and to each of the at least two articulated arms, the drive motor is engaged to a drive shaft and at least one of the coupling elements is movably coupled to the drive shaft and is driven by the drive shaft, the at least one coupling element is pivotally mounted to the drive shaft and drive shaft rotation pivots the at least one coupling element relative to the drive section, and drive shaft rotation causes the at least one coupling element to pivot relative to the drive section about two axes of rotation, the two axes are offset and substantially parallel with each other, and wherein the drive section has another axis of rotation offset from at least one of the two axes of rotation. 14. A substrate transport apparatus comprising: a drive section with a drive motor; two articulated arms, each being operably connected to the drive motor for extension and retraction of each arm, and each arm having an end effector adapted for holding and transporting a substrate; and a coupling system having a lost motion system operably coupling both articulated arms to a common drive shaft of the drive motor, the lost motion system being arranged so that the lost motion system operates, when the common drive shaft of the drive motor imparts a torque to the coupling system, to effect extension and retraction of one of the two articulated arms substantially independent of movement of another of the two articulated arms; wherein the two articulated arms are scara arms and the relationship between scara arm motion and drive motor position is variable over the extension and retraction of each scara arm. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus further comprising a controller programmed to control motion of the two scara arms to maintain substantially steady state motion during extension and retraction. 