An auxiliary communication system and method, wherein system components can be electrically isolated, wherein a machine controller and a robot can communicate according to standard protocols, and wherein auxiliary equipment can be incorporated into the communication system, thereby alleviating the need for and the voltage limitations of auxiliary I/O boards.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An auxiliary communication interface device, comprising: a multi-pin machine connection removably connected to a machine; a multi-pin robot connection removably connected to a robot disposed proximate the machine; a relay board disposed proximate the machine and the robot and within a common operation range of the machine and the robot; a first plurality of input relays adapted to receive voltage signals from said multi-pin machine connections; a second plurality of input relays adapted to receive voltage signals from said multi-pin robot connection; said first and said second plurality of input relays adapted to transmit voltage signals to a first plurality of output relays, a second plurality of output relays, and a third plurality of output relays, wherein said first plurality of output relays is adapted to transmit voltage signals to said multi-pin machine connection, wherein said second plurality off output relays is adapted to transmit voltage signals to said multi-pin robot connection, wherein said third plurality of output relays is adapted to transmit voltage signals to an Input-Output board; wherein said Input/Output board is adapted to receive voltage signals and to transmit communication signals; an Ethernet port; and a serial communication port wherein said serial communication port provides information via said relay board. 2. The auxiliary communication interface device of claim 1, wherein said communication signals are Ethernet signals. 3. The auxiliary communication interface device of claim 1, wherein said communication signals are wireless signals. 4. The auxiliary communication interface device of claim 1, wherein said communication signals are digitized I/O signals. 5. The auxiliary communication interface device of claim 1, wherein said communication signals are infrared signals. 