Systems, methods, compositions and apparatus relating to genome selection are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: hybridizing one or more probes in vitro to one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more male germ line haploid genomes; determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes; and selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes based at least partially on one or more of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein hybridizing one or more probes in vitro to one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: hybridizing one or more nucleic acid sequence specific probes in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein hybridizing one or more probes in vitro to one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: hybridizing the one or more probes selected from the group consisting of a protein nucleic acid and an oligonucleotide in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing one or more of the one or more probes from one or more of the nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: separating one or more of the one or more probes from one or more of the nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: eliminating one or more of the one or more probes from one or more of the nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes is at least partially based on detecting the hybridization of the one or more probes in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting the hybridization of the one or more probes in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein detecting the hybridization of the one or more probes in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: detecting a marker of hybridization, the marker of hybridization selected from the group consisting of quantum dots, molecular beacons, fluorescence, and FRET. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes is at least partially condensed. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes are part of one or more spermatozoa. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes are at least partially isolated from one or more spermatozoa. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes are part of one or more spermatids. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes are at least partially isolated from one or more spermatids. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes include one or more of one or more single nucleotide polymorphisms, one or more chromosomal characteristics, one or more methylation patterns, or one or more DNA sequences. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes include one or more of one or more mitochondrial nucleic acid sequences, one or more telomeric sequences, or one or more telomeric lengths. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more telomeric lengths are selected from the group consisting of a total genomic telomeric length, a telomeric length of one or more ends of one or more chromosomes, and a weighted combination of one or more telomeric lengths of one or more ends of one or more chromosomes. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes include a weighted combination of one or more of the one or more genetic characteristics. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes include a weighted combination of one or more of one or more single nucleotide polymorphisms, one or more chromosomal characteristics, one or more methylation patterns, or one or more DNA sequences. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes is based at least partially on one or more target genetic characteristics. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: comparing the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes with one or more of one or more reference or one or more target genetic characteristics. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising: determining one or more of the one or more reference or the one or more target genetic characteristics at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising: selecting one or more of the one or more reference or the one or more target genetic characteristics at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein said step of comparing comprises: selecting for one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having one or more of the one or more reference or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said step of selecting for comprises: selecting for one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having a weighted combination of one or more of the one or more reference or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 27. The method of claim 22, wherein said step of comparing comprises: selecting against one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having one or more of the one or more reference or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said step of selecting against comprises: selecting against one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having a weighted combination of one or more of the one or more reference or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 29. The method of claim 22, wherein analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: analyzing one or more of one or more single nucleotide polymorphisms, one or more chromosomes, one or more methylation patterns, or one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 30. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes based at least partially on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising: determining one or more of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes. 32. The method of claim 30, further comprising: hybridizing one or more probes in vitro to one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more female germ line genomes; and determining one or more of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes. 33. The method of claim 30, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes include one or more of one or more single nucleotide polymorphisms, one or more chromosomal characteristics, one or more methylation patterns, or one or more DNA sequences. 34. The method of claim 30, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes include one or more of one or more mitochondrial nucleic acid sequences, one or more telomeric sequences, or one or more telomeric lengths. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the one or more telomeric lengths are selected from the group consisting of a total genomic telomeric length, a telomeric length of one or more ends of one or more chromosomes, and a weighted combination of one or more telomeric lengths of one or more ends of one or more chromosomes. 36. The method of claim 30, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes include a weighted combination of one or more of one or more genetic characteristics. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more female germ line genomes include a weighted combination of one or more of one or more single nucleotide polymorphisms, one or more chromosomal characteristics, or one or more DNA sequences. 38. The method of claim 30, wherein the one or more female germ line genomes are one or more haploid genomes. 39. The method of claim 30, wherein the one or more female germ line genomes are part of one or more of one or more ova, one or more oogonia, or one or more polar bodies. 40. The method of claim 30, wherein the one or more female germ line genomes are at least partially isolated from one or more of one or more ova, one or more oogonia, or one or more polar bodies. 41. The method of claim 30, further comprising: providing the selected one or more male germ line haploid genomes to the one or more female germ line genomes. 42. The method of claim 30, further comprising: co-localizing the selected one or more male germ line haploid genomes with the one or more female germ line genomes. 43. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing the selected one or more male germ line haploid genomes to one or more female germ line genomes. 44. The method of claim 1, further comprising: co-localizing the selected one or more male germ line haploid genomes with one or more female germ line genomes. 45. A method comprising: detecting one or more genetic characteristics of one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on methods other than binding of one or more nucleic acids of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes with a polyamide or a fluorescent DNA-binding stain; and selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes based at least partially on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 46. A method comprising: detecting one or more genetic characteristics of one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on sequence specific binding to one or more nucleic acids sequences, wherein the sequence specific binding is not polyamide sequence specific binding; and selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes based at least partially on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 