The invention provides techniques for wrapping a two-dimensional texture conformally onto a surface of a three dimensional virtual object within an arbitrarily-shaped, user-defined region. The techniques provide minimum distortion and allow interactive manipulation of the mapped texture. The techniques feature an energy minimization scheme in which distances between points on the surface of the three-dimensional virtual object serve as set lengths for springs connecting points of a planar mesh. The planar mesh is adjusted to minimize spring energy, and then used to define a patch upon which a two-dimensional texture is superimposed. Points on the surface of the virtual object are then mapped to corresponding points of the texture. The invention also features a haptic/graphical user interface element that allows a user to interactively and intuitively adjust texture mapped within the arbitrary, user-defined region.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for wrapping a texture onto a surface of a three-dimensional virtual object, the method comprising: (i) rendering an arbitrarily-shaped-region of the surface of the three-dimensional virtual object in response to a user manipulation of a graphical user interface device; (ii) defining a first patch over the user-defined region, the patch being a NURBS patch; (iii) for each of a plurality of locations in the user-defined region, mapping the location to a corresponding location in a texture according to a mapping scheme wherein points of a planar mesh are adjusted to account for a spacing of corresponding points within the first patch, and wherein the texture is superimposed onto a second patch based on the adjusted planar mesh; and (iv) assigning to each location in the arbitrarily-shaped, user-defined region a graphical value associated with the corresponding location in the texture, wherein the points of the planar mesh are adjusted to improve a quality metric associated with the spacing of corresponding points within the first patch, wherein the mapping scheme models at least a plurality of the points of the planar mesh as connected by mechanical modeling elements, and wherein the points of the planar mesh are adjusted to reduce an energy associated with the mechanical modeling elements. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of graphically rendering the virtual object. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising the step of modifying a voxel representation of the virtual object according to the graphical values assigned in step (iv). 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the texture comprises a tiled pattern. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein no boundary of a tile of the tiled pattern is constrained to align with a boundary of the user-defined region. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of graphically rendering the virtual object with the tiled pattern applied within the user-defined region. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the graphical value is a color value. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the texture comprises an embossing pattern and wherein the graphical value represents an adjustment along a normal to the surface of the virtual object. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of graphically rendering the virtual object with the embossing pattern applied within the user-defined region. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the mechanical modeling elements comprise one or more members selected from the group consisting of springs, dashpots, and sliders. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the mechanical modeling elements comprise springs. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the points of the planar mesh are adjusted to minimize the energy associated with the springs. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping step does not require geometric projection. 14. An apparatus for wrapping a texture onto a surface of a three-dimensional virtual object, the apparatus comprising: a memory for storing code that defines a set of instructions; and a processor for executing the set of instructions to: (i) define a first patch over an arbitrarily shaped, user-defined region, the first patch being a NURBS patch; (ii) for each of a plurality of locations in the arbitrarily-shaped, user-defined region of the surface of the three-dimensional virtual object, map the location in the user-defined region to a corresponding location in a texture according to a mapping scheme wherein points of a planar mesh are adjusted to account for a spacing of corresponding points within the first patch, and wherein the texture is superimposed onto a second patch based on the adjusted planar mesh; and (iii) assign to each location in the user-defined region a graphical value associated with the corresponding location in the texture, wherein the points of the planar mesh are adjusted to improve a quality metric associated with the spacing of corresponding points within the first patch, wherein the mapping scheme models at least a plurality of the points of the planar mesh as connected by mechanical modeling elements, and wherein the points of the planar mesh are adjusted to reduce an energy associated with the mechanical modeling elements. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the code comprises instructions to graphically render the virtual object. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a graphical display on which the virtual object is rendered. 17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the mechanical modeling elements comprise one or more members selected from the group consisting of springs, dashpots, and sliders. 18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the mechanical modeling elements comprise springs. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the code comprises instructions to adjust at least a plurality of the points of the planar mesh to minimize the energy associated with the springs. 