A radiosurgery system is described that delivers a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, based on ocular imaging, which leads to direction of an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of an ocular structure is tracked and related to a radiosurgery system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial aids in positioning the system. In some embodiments, a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, of treating a region of an eye of a patient, comprising: producing an x-ray beam with a width of from about 0.5 mm to about 6 mm and having a photon energy between about 40 keV and about 250 keV; directing the x-ray beam, based on a point on an outer surface of the eye, toward the eye region within the eye; and exposing the region to a dose of from about 1 Gy to about 40 Gy of x-ray radiation. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a model of the eye, the model comprising anatomic data obtained by an imaging apparatus, wherein at least one of a width of the x-ray beam, the photon energy of the x-ray beam, and a trajectory of the x-ray beam is determined based on the model of the eye. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing comprises exposing the region to from about 15 Gy to about 25 Gy of x-ray radiation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the region comprises a retina of the eye. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising reducing neovascularization in the eye by exposing the retina to the x-ray radiation. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising substantially preventing progression from Dry Age-related Macular Degeneration to neovascularization by exposing the retina to the x-ray radiation. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering to the patient at least one of heating, cooling, a VEGF antagonist, a VEGF-receptor antagonist, an antibody directed to VEGF or a VEGF receptor, microwave energy, radiofrequency energy, a laser, a photodynamic agent, and a radiodynamic agent, and a therapeutic agent. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing a first x-ray beam to pass through the sclera of the eye to the retina of the eye from a first position external to the eye, and directing a second x-ray beam to pass through the sclera to the retina from a second position external to the eye. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray beam is directed through the pars plana of the eye. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray beam is directed to the macula of the eye. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray beam is directed through the sclera of the eye to the macula of the eye. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing comprises dividing the dose between two or more beams. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing comprises dividing the dose between two or more treatment sessions, each of said treatment sessions occurring at least one day apart. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a position of the eye relative to the x-ray beam during the exposing of the region to the x-ray radiation and ceasing or reducing the x-ray beam when the position of the eye exceeds a movement threshold. 15. A method, of treating an eye during a treatment period, comprising directing an x-ray radiation beam, based on a point on an outer surface of the eye, from a source outside the eye to a target in or on the retina of the eye, such that a dose of radiation delivered during the treatment period to at least one of the optic nerve and the lens of the eye is no more than about 40 percent of a target dose of radiation delivered to the target. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the radiation beam is directed to the target in or on the retina such that it passes substantially through the pars plana of the eye. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the directing comprises collimating the radiation beam to a width of from about 0.5 mm to about 6 mm. 18. A method, of treating an eye during a treatment period, comprising directing an x-ray radiation beam, based on a point on an outer surface of the eye, from a source outside an eye to a target in the eye, such that a dose of radiation emitted during the treatment period to eye tissue located about 6 mm from a center of the target is no more than about 40 percent of a target dose of radiation emitted to the target. 19. A method, of treating inflammation in a patient's eye, comprising: based on data indicative of a location of a region of inflammation in an eye and on a point on an outer surface of the eye, directing at least one x-ray beam from a source outside the eye, through an anterior region of the eye, to the region of inflammation, such that a dose of radiation emitted during a treatment period to eye tissue greater than about 6 mm from a center of the region of inflammation is no more than about 40 percent of the dose of radiation emitted to the region of inflammation. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said region of inflammation comprises drusen. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the anterior region of the eye comprises the sclera of the eye. 22. The method of claim 19, further comprising filtering the x-ray beam such that the x-ray beam comprises alternating regions of higher intensity and lower intensity. 23. The method of claim 19, further comprising collimating the x-ray beam such that the x-ray beam has a cross-sectional dimension smaller than about 1 mm. 24. The method of claim 19, further comprising collimating the x-ray beam such that the x-ray beam has a cross-sectional dimension of between about 1 mm and about 5 mm. 25. The method of claim 19, further comprising directing the at least one x-ray beam toward the eye at an angle with respect to a treatment axis that is determined using an eye-contacting device. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said eye-contacting device communicates data, indicative of a position of the eye, to an emitter that emits the at least one x-ray beam. 27. The method of claim 19, further comprising directing the at least one x-ray beam toward the eye at an angle to a treatment axis that is determined using one of a reflection of light off the eye, a fundus image, an image of a pupil of the eye, and an image of a limbus of the eye. 