The present invention provides protein fragment complementation assays for drug discovery, in particular to identify compounds that activate or inhibit cellular pathways. Based on the selection of an interacting protein pair combined with an appropriate PCA reporter, the assays may be run in high-throughput or high-content mode and may be used in automated screening of libraries of compounds. The interacting pair may be selected by cDNA library screening; by gene-by-gene interaction mapping; or by prior knowledge of a pathway. Fluorescent and luminescent assays can be constructed using the methods provided herein. The selection of suitable PCA reporters for high-throughput or high-content (high-context) assay formats is described for a diversity of reporters, with particular detail provided for examples of monomeric enzymes and fluorescent proteins. Methods are described for constructing such assays for one or more steps in a biochemical pathway; testing the effects of compounds from combinatorial, natural product, peptide, antibody, nucleic acid or other diverse libraries on the protein or pathway(s) of interest; and using the results of the screening to identify specific compounds that activate or inhibit the protein or pathway(s) of interest. Single-color and multi-color assays are disclosed. Further disclosed are universal expression vectors with cassettes that allow the rapid construction of assays for a large and diverse number of gene/reporter combinations. The development of such assays is shown to be straightforward, providing for a broad, flexible and biologically relevant platform for drug discovery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for discovering new drugs and new activities of known drugs, said method comprising: (A) constructing one or more protein-fragment complementation assays (PCAs') wherein said assay comprises the following steps: (i) selecting a protein reporter molecule; (ii) effecting fragmentation of said protein reporter molecule such that said fragmentation results in reversible loss of reporter function; (iii) fusing or attaching fragments of said protein reporter molecule separately to other molecules; (iv) reassociating said reporter fragments through interactions of the other molecules that are fused or attached to said fragments; and (v) measuring the activity of said reporter molecule resulting from the reassociation of said reporter fragments; (B) testing the effects of the new drug compounds and the known drug compounds on the activity of said assay(s); and (C) using the results of said assay(s) to identify the new drug compounds and the known drug compounds with desired activities. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the molecules fused to the reporter fragment is selected from the group consisting of a receptor, a tumor suppressor gene, a kinase, a kinase substrate, an oncogene, an adaptor protein, a ubiquitin-like molecule, and a transcription factor. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the molecules fused to the reporter fragment is selected from the group consisting of p53, Chk1, ATR, ATM, Rad 51, PDK2, STAT1, FKBP, FRAP, p70S6Kinase, S6 protein, 4E-BP1, PPP2A, TNFR, TRADD, FADD, p65 subunit of NFkappaB, p50 subunit of NFkappaB, CBP, TRAF2, Ubiquitin, IKK-beta, IKK-gamma, IkappaBalpha, MEK, ERK, PI-3-Kinase, PKB, Ft1, GCN4, PDK1, GSK3, NF-AT, and Calcineurin; and domains, fragments or homologues thereof. 4. The method according to claim 1, whereby the assay is used to screen for the receptor agonist, a receptor antagonist, a kinase inhibitor, a phosphatase inhibitor, a cell cycle inhibitor, a heat shock protein inhibitor, an E3 ligase inhibitor, a transcription factor inhibitor, an inhibitor of a protein-protein interaction, or a proteasome inhibitor. 