A portable device for collecting data at a geographic location and providing accurate, comprehensive, efficient and timely work prints. The portable device for collecting data at a geographic location, the device including a memory that stores preliminary site information associated with the geographic location; a receiver that receives geographic position data of at least one point at the geographic location; an interface that enables a user to input data corresponding to the received geographic position data; and a processor that supplements the preliminary site information with the received geographic position data and the corresponding input data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A portable device for preparing a final work print, the device comprising: a receiver that receives a draft work print including a first geographic point; a memory that stores the draft work print; an interface that enables a user to select a second geographic point and input notes corresponding to the second geographic point; a display that displays the draft work print and geographic data corresponding to the second geographic point; and at least one function activation key that enables the user to overlay the second geographic point and the inputted notes corresponding to the second geographic point on to the draft work print, wherein the draft work print overlaid with the second geographic point and the inputted notes corresponding to the second geographic point comprises the final work print. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the receiver comprises a global positioning system receiver. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the display displays a hierarchical menu of geographic descriptors. 4. The device according to claim 3, wherein the display displays a geographic descriptor hierarchical menu selection of the user in the displayed draft work print at a corresponding geographic point. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the draft work print comprises a two-dimensional plat of geographically specific site information. 6. The device according to claim 5, wherein the geographically specific site information comprises road boundaries, building structures, manholes, fire hydrants, and telephone poles. 7. A method of preparing a final work print, the method comprising: receiving a draft work print on a portable device, the draft work print including a first geographic point; displaying the draft work print; navigating to a second geographic point; selecting the second geographic point via an interface on the portable device; receiving geographic data on the portable device corresponding to the second geographic point; inputting notes corresponding to the second geographic point via an interface on the portable device; overlaying the selected second geographic point and inputted notes on to the draft work print; and downloading the draft work print overlaid with the selected second geographic point and the inputted notes to a processor as the final work print. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising receiving updated information regarding the second geographic point in response to the user selecting the second geographic point. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising prompting the user to input notes corresponding to the second geographic point. 10. The method according to claim 7, wherein the draft work print comprises a two-dimensional plat of geographically specific site information. 11. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program that prepares a final work print, the computer readable medium comprising: a receiving code segment that receives a draft work print including a first geographic point; a storing code segment that stores the draft work print; a first displaying codes segment that displays the draft work print; an interfacing code segment that enables a user to select a second geographic point and input notes corresponding to the second geographic point; a second displaying code segment that displays geographic data corresponding to the second geographic point; a overlaying code segment that overlays the second geographic point and the inputted notes corresponding to the second geographic point on to the draft work print; and a generating code segment that finalizes the draft work print overlaid with the second geographic point and the inputted notes corresponding to the second geographic point. 12. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 11, further comprising a transmitting code segment that transmits the final work print to a remote processor. 13. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 11, further comprising a first prompting code segment that prompts the user to input notes corresponding to the second geographic point. 14. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 11, further comprising an updating code segment that generates updated information associated with the second geographic point. 15. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 14, further comprising an update displaying code segment that displays the updated information associated with the second geographic point prior to overlaying the second geographic point and the inputted notes corresponding to the second geographic point on to the draft work print. 16. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 11, further comprising a second prompting code segment that prompts the user as to whether inputting of information has been completed. 17. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 11, further comprising a menu displaying code segment that displays a hierarchical menu of geographic descriptors. 18. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 17, further comprising a selection receiving code segment that receives a geographic descriptor hierarchical menu selection of the user. 19. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 18, further comprising a descriptor inserting code segment that inserts the geographic descriptor selected by the user on to the draft work print at a corresponding geographic point. 20. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 18, wherein the draft work print comprises a two-dimensional plat of geographically specific site information. 