A medical instrument assembly and robotic medical system are provided. The medical instrument assembly comprises an intravascular catheter having an elongated flexible shaft, and a drivable mechanism to which the flexible catheter shaft is mounted. The drivable mechanism has an actuating element configured for effecting movement of the catheter within at least one degree-of-freedom. The medical instrument assembly further comprises a receiver to which the drivable mechanism is configured for being removably mated. The receiver is configured for operably coupling a drive unit to the actuating element. The robotic medical system comprises the medical instrument assembly, a user interface configured for generating at least one command, a drive unit coupled to the receiver, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command(s), for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating element via the receiver to effect movement of catheter to the degree(s)-of-freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an intravascular catheter having an elongated flexible shaft; a drivable mechanism to which the flexible catheter shaft is mounted, the drivable mechanism having an actuating element configured for effecting movement of the catheter within at least one degree-of-freedom; and a receiver to which the drivable mechanism is configured for being removably mated, the receiver configured for operably coupling a drive unit to the actuating element, wherein the receiver has a complementary actuating element that mechanically interfaces with the actuating element. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an axial rotation of the flexible catheter shaft. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 2, wherein the actuating element comprises a first gear that encircles and effects the axial rotation of the flexible catheter shaft. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a deflection of the flexible catheter shaft. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 4, further comprising a cable extending within flexible catheter shaft, wherein the cable is connected to the complementary actuating element in the receiver, and wherein the actuating element comprises a pulley that pulls the cable via the complementary actuating element to effect the deflection of the flexible catheter shaft. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the catheter has an end effector associated with the flexible catheter shaft, and the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an actuation of the end effector. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 6, further comprising a cable extending within the flexible catheter shaft, wherein the cable is connected to the complementary actuating element in the receiver, and wherein the actuating element comprises a pulley that pulls the cable via the complementary actuating element to effect the actuation of the end effector. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the actuating element is a gear, and the complementary actuating element is a complementary gear that mechanically interfaces with the gear. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the actuating element is a pulley, and the complementary actuating element is a complementary pulley that mechanically interfaces with the pulley. 10. The medical instrument assembly of claim 9, wherein the pulley and complementary pulley have matching patterns that interlock with each other. 11. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising cabling extending from the receiver and configured for coupling the drive unit to the actuating element. 12. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising another intravascular catheter having another elongated flexible shaft, wherein the other catheter shaft is mounted to the drivable mechanism, the drivable mechanism has another actuating element configured for effecting movement of the other catheter within at least one degree-of-freedom, and the receiver is configured for operably coupling a drive unit to the other actuating element, and wherein the receiver has another complementary actuating element that mechanically interfaces with the other actuating element. 13. The medical instrument assembly of claim 12, wherein the catheter and other catheter are in a coaxial arrangement. 14. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a carriage on which the mated drivable mechanism and receiver are movably disposed. 15. A robotic medical system, comprising: a medical instrument assembly having a flexible intravascular catheter, a drivable mechanism to which the catheter is mounted, and a receiver to which the drivable mechanism is removably mated, the drivable mechanism having an actuator element coupled to the catheter; a user interface configured for generating at least one command; a drive unit coupled to the receiver; and an electric controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating element via the receiver to effect movement of catheter within at least one degree-of-freedom, wherein the receiver has a complementary actuating element that mechanically interfaces with the actuating element. 16. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the electric controller is configured for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating element to effect movement of the catheter corresponding to a movement at the user interface. 17. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the drive unit. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 20. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the receiver via external cabling. 21. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an axial rotation of the catheter. 22. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a deflection of the catheter. 23. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the catheter has an end effector, and the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an actuation of the end effector. 24. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the actuating element is a gear, and the complementary actuating element is a complementary gear that mechanically interfaces with the gear. 25. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the actuating element is a pulley, and the complementary actuating element is a complementary pulley that mechanically interfaces with the pulley. 26. The robotic medical system of claim 25, wherein the pulley and complementary pulley have matching patterns that interlock with each other. 27. The robotic medical system of claim 15, wherein the medical instrument assembly has another intravascular catheter, wherein the other intravascular catheter is mounted to the drivable mechanism, the drivable mechanism has another actuating element coupled to the other catheter, and the electric controller is configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to drive the other actuating element via the receiver to effect movement of other catheter within at least one degree-of-freedom, and wherein the receiver has another complementary actuating element that mechanically interfaces with the other actuating element. 28. The robotic medical system of claim 27, wherein the catheter and other catheter are in a coaxial arrangement. 29. The robotic medical system of claim 27, further comprising a carriage on which the medical instrument assembly is movably disposed. 