A pipette nozzle is provided for use on a movable arm on an automated pipette machine. The pipette nozzle includes a body defining a passage therethrough. At least two seating surfaces are provided on the body, including a first seating surface and a second seating surface. The first seating surface is configured to receive and sealingly mate with a first size of pipette tip in a manner such that the first end of the passage is in fluid communication with the first size of pipette tip. The second seating surface is configured to receive and sealingly mate with a second size of pipette tip in a manner such that the first end of the passage is in fluid communication with the second size of pipette tip. The seating surfaces are frustoconical outer surfaces. The pipette nozzle may be further configured to sealingly mate with and removably receive a third pipette tip having a third diameter different from the first diameter and the second diameter. There is also provided an automated pipette machine which includes a tip ejector system and a moving carousel having a plurality of pipette receptacles.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A kit comprising: (a) at least one first pipette tip having a first size; (b) at least one second pipette tip having a second size; and, (c) a pipette nozzle for use on a movable arm on an automated pipette machine, the pipette nozzle having a longitudinally extending passage and adapted to removably receive each of the first pipette tip and the second pipette tip, the pipette nozzle comprising a first continuous longitudinally extending outer surface that sealingly mates with an inner surface of the first pipette tip, and a second continuous longitudinally extending outer surface that sealingly mates with an inner surface of the second pipette tip. 2. The kit as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and second continuous longitudinally extending outer surfaces are frustoconical. 3. The kit as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and second continuous longitudinally extending outer surfaces are concentric. 4. An automated pipette machine comprising: (a) a movable pipette machine arm comprising a pipette nozzle; (b) the pipette nozzle having a longitudinally extending passage and being configured to sealingly mate with and removably receive at least a first pipette tip having a first diameter, and a second pipette tip having a second diameter different from the first diameter; and, (c) the movable machine arm being operable to select one of the first pipette tip and the second pipette tip and to mate the pipette nozzle with a selected one of the first pipette tip and the second pipette tip. 5. The automated pipette machine of claim 4, wherein the pipette nozzle comprises a first continuous longitudinally extending outer surface that sealingly mates with an inner surface of the first pipette tip, and a second continuous longitudinally extending outer surface that sealingly mates with an inner surface of the second pipette tip. 6. The automated pipette machine of claim 4, further comprising a movable carousel having a plurality of pipette receptacles. 7. The automated pipette machine of claim 4, further comprising a tip ejector system. 8. The automated pipette machine of claim 4, wherein the pipette nozzle is further configured to sealingly mate with and removably receive a third pipette tip having a third diameter different from the first diameter and the second diameter. 