A centrifugal workpiece processor for processing semiconductor wafers and similar workpieces includes a head which holds and spins the workpiece. The head includes a rotor having a gas system. Gas is sprayed or jetted from inlets in the rotor to create a rotational gas flow. The rotational gas flow causes pressure conditions which hold the edges of a first side of the workpiece against contact pins or surfaces on the rotor. The rotor and the workpiece rotate together. Guide pins adjacent to a perimeter may help to align the workpiece with the rotor. An angled surface helps to deflect spent process liquid away from the workpiece. The head is moveable into multiple different engagement positions with a bowl. Spray nozzles in the bowl spray a process liquid onto the second side of the workpiece, as the workpiece is spinning, to process the workpiece. A moving end point detector may be used to detect an end point of processing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A workpiece processor, comprising: a bowl having one or more process fluid inlets; a head engageable with the bowl; a rotor in the head and rotatable relative to the head; a plurality of gas nozzles in the rotor; an edge contact ring on the rotor having a circumferential inner edge; and an annular slot in the rotor extending radially outwardly from the inner edge of the edge contact ring. 2. The workpiece processor of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of guide pins aligned on a circle on the rotor having a first diameter and with the inner edge of the edge contact ring having a second diameter, and with the second diameter about 4-20 mm less than the first diameter. 3. The workpiece processor of claim 1 with the inner edge of the edge contact ring adapted to contact the workpiece at a position 2-7 mm radially inwardly from the edge of a workpiece in the rotor. 4. The workpiece processor of claim 1 further comprising a gas flow path in the rotor having an inlet at the inner edge of the edge contact ring. 5. The workpiece processor of claim 1 further comprising one or more standoff pins on the rotor adjacent to a central position on the rotor, for preventing excessive upward bowing of a wafer held in the rotor. 6. The processor of claim 1 with the process fluid inlets in the bowl comprising nozzles positioned to spray a process liquid onto a down facing side of a workpiece held in the rotor. 7. The workpiece processor of claim 1 with the circumferential inner edge of the contact ring located on the rotor to contact a workpiece in the rotor near the edge of the workpiece. 8. The workpiece processor of claim 1 further comprising a pressurized gas inlet line in the rotor connected to the gas nozzles. 9. The processor of claim 8 with the rotor including a drive plate and a chuck plate attached to the drive plate, and with the pressurized gas inlet line connecting into a gap between the drive plate and the chuck plate. 10. The workpiece processor of claim 8 with the gas inlets at a sidewall of the rotor. 11. The workpiece processor of claim 1 with the rotor dimensioned to hold a workpiece having a diameter D, and with the annular slot having a diameter less than D. 12. The workpiece processor of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of gas outlet ports extending into the rotor and connecting into the annular slot, with the outlet ports and the annular slot forming a gas outlet path through the rotor. 13. The workpiece processor of claim 1 with the rotor including sidewalls around an interior space of the rotor and the gas nozzles positioned at least partially tangent to the sidewalls of the rotor to spray a pressurized gas into the interior space of the rotor, to create a circular flow of gas in the interior space within the rotor. 14. The workpiece processor of claim 1 with the annular slot extending radially outwardly and vertically upwardly relative to a spin axis of the rotor. 15. A centrifugal semiconductor wafer processor, comprising: a bowl having one or more process fluid spray nozzles; a head for holding a wafer having a diameter WD; a head lifter attached to the head, with the head lifter movable to position the head in a first position face down over the bowl, during wafer processing and with the head lifter also movable to position head in a second position, for loading and unloading a wafer into the head; a rotor attached to and rotatable relative to the head, with the rotor having a bottom recess formed by a bottom surface of the rotor substantially perpendicular to a rotation axis of the rotor, and a sidewall contact surface oriented at an acute angle EA to the rotation axis of the rotor; and with an upper portion of the sidewall contact surface having a first diameter less than WD, and with a lower portion of the sidewall contact surface having a second diameter greater than WD. 16. The processor of claim 15 further comprising compressed gas nozzles in the rotor oriented to spray compressed gas into the rotor to create a rotational gas flow in the rotor. 17. The processor of claim 15 further comprising compressed gas nozzles in the rotor oriented to spray compressed gas into the rotor at angle at least partially tangent to a direction of rotation of the rotor, and annular slot leading radially outwardly in the rotor from the sidewall contact surface. 18. The processor of claim 17 with the annular slot in the bottom surface of the rotor and having an inner diameter and an outer diameter, and with the inner diameter less than the first diameter. 19. The processor of claim 15 wherein the angle EA is about 15-45 degrees. 20. A centrifugal workpiece processor, comprising: a base having one or more process liquid inlets; a head movable over the base; a rotor on the head having a plate and side walls joined to the plate; a motor in the head linked to the rotor for rotating the rotor; compressed gas flow providing means associated with the rotor for providing compressed gas flow in the rotor to create a partial vacuum between the plate and an upper surface of the workpiece at a perimeter of the rotor, for holding the workpiece into the head via gas pressure force; and workpiece edge contact means on the rotor, for contacting a workpiece at or near an edge of the workpiece, to prevent flow of a process liquid onto selected areas of the workpiece. 