Compliant mechanisms whose dominant modes of vibration match the desired kinematics for locomotion in a given environment are used to mimic motions of a living animal. Mechanisms are simple and mechanically robust. They may have as few as one actuator, which excites the compliant portion to vibrate in a natural mode that results in motion that mimics a living animal. Additional actuators may drive directional elements such as flippers. Models for compliant mechanism bodies were derived and used to identify actuator, material, and geometrical properties of the required mechanisms. The design and fabrication techniques of mechanisms implementing these ideas is also presented. Experiments found that important features of fish-swimming kinematics can be captured qualitatively by compliant mechanisms. The resulting mechanism swimming performance was 1/3 of the real fish performance, comparable to current robotic fish. A compliant mechanism approach to biomimetic locomotion has significant advantages since mechanisms are simpler and more robust than traditional mechanisms used for biomimetic robots and performance achieved is comparable. Radio control is straightforward. The flexible material may be uniform, but need not be. Active materials, such as piezoelectric materials may be used to change the stiffness or other mechanical properties of the flexible portion. The material may be distributed uniformly or non-uniformly. The tail portion may be tapered or uniform or variable cross-section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanical device for motion through a liquid, comprising: a. an actuator; and b. a continuous, solid, transmission element-free flexible portion that: i. is coupled to the actuator such that vibration of the flexible portion that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal is excited when the actuator is energized; and ii. is specifically designed such that when the actuator is energized, the continuous flexible portion vibrates in a manner that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising, coupled to the flexible portion, a first portion. 3. The device of claim 1, the first portion comprising a head portion, at the leading edge of motion in which the device moves when the actuator is energized to cause the flexible portion to vibrate. 4. The device of claim 1, the flexible portion comprising a head portion, at the leading edge of motion in which the device moves when the actuator is energized to cause the flexible portion to vibrate. 5. The device of claim 1, the flexible portion comprising a tapered section. 6. The device of claim 1, the flexible portion comprising a generally uniform, cross-section. 7. The device of claim 2, the first portion comprising a relatively rigid portion. 8. The device of claim 1, the flexible portion comprising a homogeneous material distribution specifically designed so that vibration of the flexible portion that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal is excited by the actuator. 9. The device of claim 1, the flexible portion comprising a variable cross-section. 10. The device of claim 1, the flexible portion comprising a non-homogeneous material distribution specifically designed so that vibration of the flexible portion that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal is excited by the actuator. 11. The device of claim 10, the flexible portion comprising a material distribution having at least two regions of different material composition. 12. The device of claim 1, the actuator being located adjacent the first portion, the flexible portion comprising: a. a body portion of flexible material; b. within the flexible portion, a relatively stiff section spaced away from the actuator and coupled to the flexible material between the stiff section and the actuator; and c. a transmission that couples the stiff section to the actuator, such that if the actuator is energized, the stiff section moves and the flexible portion vibrates. 13. The device of claim 12, the transmission comprising a pair of inextensible cables. 14. The device of claim 12, the actuator configured to provide a harmonically varying tension on the cables. 15. The device of claim 12, the stiff section configured to provide at least one of a moment and a force upon actuation. 16. The device of claim 1, the actuator comprising a servo motor. 17. The device of claim 12, the flexible portion further comprising, coupled to the stiff section, a terminal fin. 18. The device of claim 12, the flexible material comprising a flexible polymer. 19. The device of claim 18, the flexible polymer comprising polyurethane. 20. The device of claim 1, the aquatic animal comprising an animal that is described by a kinematic model of body deformation of a traveling wave that increases in amplitude from a head portion to a flexible tail portion, given by, y.sub.b(x.sub.b, t)=(c.sub.1x.sub.b+c.sub.2x.sub.b.sup.2)[sin(Kx.sub.b)cos(.omega.t)+cos(K- x.sub.b)sin(.omega.t)] (1) where y.sub.b is the lateral displacement of the animal body at a distance x.sub.b from an anterior point of the head portion as a function of time, t, and the values of c.sub.1, the linear wave amplitude envelope, c.sub.2, the quadratic wave amplitude envelope, K, the body wave number and .omega. , the body wave frequency, are known for the animal. 21. The device of claim 1, the aquatic animal comprising a carangiform fish. 22. The device of claim 1, the aquatic animal comprising a anguilliform fish. 23. The device of claim 1, the aquatic animal comprising a known swimming animal. 24. The device of claim 1, further comprising at least one movable flipper element, characterized by an angle of attack relative to the flexible portion, coupled to the flexible portion such that the angle of attack can be changed. 25. The device of claim 24, the flipper element being coupled to the flexible portion through a joint. 26. The device of claim 24, the flipper element being coupled to the flexible portion through an actuator configured to rotate the flipper element. 27. The device of claim 1, the actuator that excites vibration comprising a radio controllable actuator. 28. The device of claim 26, the flipper element actuator comprising a radio controllable actuator. 29. The device of claim 1, the flexible portion further comprising, at least one element that changes from a first shape, with which a first natural frequency is associated, to a second shape, with which a second different natural frequency is associated, in response to at least one stimulus. 30. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising an element that is activated by a stimulus selected from the group consisting of: electrical, magnetic and ion diffusion. 31. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising a piezoelectric element. 32. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising an electrorestrictive element. 33. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising an electrostatic element. 34. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising a ferroelectric element. 35. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising an ionic activated element. 36. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising a shape memory alloy. 37. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising a ceramic. 38. The device of claim 29, the element that changes shape comprising a polymer. 39. A mechanical device for motion through a liquid with kinematics that mimic a swimming living aquatic animal, comprising: a. a relatively rigid head portion; b. a primary actuator; and c. a continuous, solid, transmission element-free, flexible portion that is: i. coupled to the head portion; ii. coupled to the primary actuator to vibrate when the actuator is energized; iii. subject to vibration, that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal, such that when the actuator is energized and the vibration is excited, the flexible portion vibrates in a manner that mimics the swimming living aquatic animal; and iv. free from coupling to any other actuators that excites vibration of the flexible portion. 40. A method for moving a device through a liquid environment comprising the steps of: a. providing a mechanical device comprising: i. an actuator; and ii. a continuous, solid, transmission element-free flexible portion that: A. is coupled to the actuator such that vibration of the flexible portion that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal is excited when the actuator is energized; and B. is specifically designed such that when the actuator is energized, the flexible portion vibrates in a manner that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal; and b. energizing the actuator so that the flexible portion vibrates in a manner that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal. 41. A method for selecting design properties for geometry, material and actuator of a mechanical device for motion through a liquid with kinematics that mimic swimming motion of a living aquatic animal, the device comprising: a. an actuator; and b. a continuous, solid, transmission element-free flexible portion that: i. is coupled to the actuator such that vibration of the flexible portion, that mimics swimming kinematics of a living aquatic animal, is excited when the actuator is energized; and ii. is specifically designed such that when the actuator is energized the flexible portion vibrates in a manner that mimics swimming kinematics of the living aquatic animal; wherein the method of selecting design properties comprises the steps of: a. identifying a model of the living aquatic animal whose swimming kinematics are to be mimicked; b. identifying a model of the mechanical device, in terms of its actuator properties, its material properties and its geometry properties; and c. fitting the living aquatic animal model to the device model by selecting actuator properties, material properties and geometry properties that minimize any difference between motions described by the living animal model and motions described by the device model. 42. The method of claim 41, the actuator properties being selected from the group consisting of M (actuation moment), a (location of application of actuation moment) and .OMEGA. (actuation frequency). 43. The method of claim 41, the material properties being selected from the group consisting of E (modulus of elasticity of the flexible portion) and .rho. (density of the flexible portion). 44. The method of claim 41, the geometry properties being selected from the group consisting of A (cross-sectional area), I (second moment of cross sectional area of the flexible portion) and l (length of tail). 45. The method of claim 41, the step of fitting the living aquatic animal model to the device model comprising the step of applying a least squares method. 46. The method of claim 41, the living aquatic model comprising a model of a carangiform fish. 47. The method of claim 41, the living aquatic model comprising a model of an anguilliform fish. 48. A mechanical device for motion through a liquid with kinematics that mimic a desired kinematics comprising: a. an actuator; and b. a continuous, solid, transmission element-free flexible portion that: i. is coupled to the actuator such that vibration of the flexible portion that mimics the desired kinematics is excited when the actuator is energized; and ii. is specifically designed such that when the actuator is energized, the flexible portion vibrates, in a manner that mimics the desired kinematics. 