An underwater operations support system facilitates underwater exploration, monitoring, maintenance and construction operations associated with development of natural resources. The operations support system may include energy generation subsystems, energy accumulation subsystems, communication subsystems, docking stations, repair and maintenance robots, housings for divers, and video subsystems. Supported equipment includes ROVs, HROVs, AUVs, and other autonomous and semi-autonomous mobile robots which move materials, perform manual tasks, and survey the environment. Operational efficiency is enhanced by recharging, repairing and reconfiguring vehicles, and transferring data and commands between vehicles and a control station, without moving the vehicle to and from the surface, and without need for a surface ship to remain on site for the duration of operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for supporting underwater operation of robotic devices, comprising: an energy storage module operative to store and to discharge energy on demand; an interface operable to temporarily connect the energy storage module with a robotic device, the robotic device receiving discharged stored energy from the energy storage module via the interface; a communications device powered by the energy storage module, the communication device operable to provide a communication link between the robotic device and a surface station, the robotic device receiving instructions from the surface station and providing data to the surface station via the communications device; an energy transformer operable to transform energy from the underwater environment into a different form, and to provide that transformed energy to the energy storage module; and wherein the communications device includes an acoustic transceiver operative to communicate with a surface module, the surface module being operative to communicate with the surface station via a high altitude communication device. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the interface includes a docking station via which both energy and communications are provided to the robotic devices. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including an energy generator operative to provide energy to the energy storage module. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a maintenance robot operative to maintain the robotic device. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a reconfiguration robot operative to reconfigure the robotic device. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a transportation module for moving an immobile robotic device. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further including an acoustic transceiver for establishing underwater wireless communication with a robotic device. 8. A method for supporting underwater operation of robotic devices, comprising: storing energy in an energy storage module for discharge on demand; temporarily connecting the energy storage module with a robotic device via an interface, and discharging at least some of the stored energy from the energy storage module to the robotic device via the interface; using energy from the energy storage module to power a communications device, providing a communication link between the robotic device and a surface station, the robotic device receiving instructions from the surface station and providing data to the surface station via the communications device; utilizing an energy transformer to transform energy from the underwater environment into a different form, and providing that transformed energy to the energy storage module; and further including the step of utilizing an acoustic transceiver operative to communicate with a surface module, the surface module being operative to communicate with the surface station via a high altitude communication device. 9. The method of claim 8 further including the step of securing the robotic device to a docking station via which both energy and communications are provided to the robotic device. 10. The method of claim 8 further including the step of providing energy to the energy storage module with an energy generator. 11. The method of claim 8 further including the step of directing a maintenance robot to maintain the robotic device. 12. The method of claim 8 further including the step of directing a reconfiguration robot to reconfigure the robotic device. 13. The method of claim 8 further including the step of moving an immobile robotic device with a transportation module. 14. The method of claim 8 further including the step of using wireless communication to communicate with a robotic device. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein an acoustic transceiver is utilized for establishing underwater wireless communication with the robotic device. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the underwater environment is a subsea environment. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the apparatus is located on or beneath a sea floor. 