A framed panel and related method of manufacture are disclosed. A framed panel unit includes a panel along the edge of which thermoplastic frame members are disposed. The frame members have first and second opposed side walls which define a channel for receiving the edge of the panel. The channel of each frame member has spacers between the panel and each side wall for spacing the panel from the side walls. Prior to welding together the ends of the frame members, the spacers retain the frame members on the panel. The panel may include multiple opposed sheet members with a spacer between the sheet members spacing them apart, and a reactive thermoplastic sealant material bonding the sheets to the frame members. An associated method of forming a named panel, frame members for a panel, and a spacer component for use in mounting a panel within a channel of a frame member are also disclosed.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A framed panel unit comprising: a panel; and a plurality of thermoplastic frame members disposed along the edge of said panel; each frame member having first and second opposed side walls defining a channel therebetween, the edge of said panel being received within the channel of each frame member; the channel of each frame member having spacer means therein including a first spacer between said panel and said first side wall for spacing said panel from said first side wall and a second spacer between said panel and said second side wall for spacing said panel from said second side wall and where prior to welding together the ends of said frame members, said spacer means positions said panel within said channel and further retains said frame members on said panel, wherein said channel of each frame member includes a base between the first and second opposed sidewalls, wherein each spacer means further comprises a third spacer arranged between the edge of said panel and the base of said channel and wherein said first and second spacers are coupled to said third spacer, wherein said third spacer includes means for permitting fluid to flow therethrough between adjacent portions of said channel separated by said third spacer. 2. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second spacers includes a protrusion extending therefrom and engaging a respective side of said panel for resiliently retaining said frame member on said panel. 3. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 1, wherein said panel is comprising at least part of sheet glass. 4. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second spacers is positioned below the top of a respective channel wall to provide an open gap at the top of said side wall for receiving sealant. 5. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 4, wherein said sealant comprises a reactive thermoplastic sealant material. 6. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 4, wherein said sealant is one of polyurethane based and silicone based. 7. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second spacers is integrally formed with a respective channel wall. 8. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 1, wherein each said frame member further includes a series of pre-formed inserts between one of said first and second opposed side walls and an outer face of said panel for spacing said outer face of said panel from said side wall to define a gap therebetween for sealant material. 9. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 8, wherein said inserts comprise a resilient rubber material and said framed panel unit includes friction reducing means between said inserts and said channel to facilitate relative movement between said inserts and each said frame member. 10. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 7, wherein each of said at least one of said first and second spacers includes one or more protrusions integrally formed with and extending from the other side wall, and wherein said integrally formed protrusions comprise flexible plastic fins. 11. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 10, wherein said integrally formed protrusions further comprise a flexible bulb seal located at the top of one of said side walls. 12. A framed panel unit as claimed in claim 1, wherein said spacer means centers said panel within said channel. 13. A framed panel unit comprising: a panel; and a plurality of thermoplastic frame members disposed along the edge of said panel; each frame member having first and second opposed side walls defining a channel therebetween, the edge of said panel being received within the channel of each frame member; the channel of each frame member having spacer means therein including a first spacer between said panel and said first side wall for spacing said panel from said first side wall and a second spacer between said panel and said second side wall for spacing said panel from said second side wall and where prior to welding together the ends of said frame members, said spacer means positions said panel within said channel and further retains said frame members on said panel, wherein said channel of each frame member includes a base between the first and second opposed sidewalls, wherein each spacer means further comprises a third spacer arranged between the edge of said panel and the base of said channel and wherein said first and second spacers are coupled to said third spacer, wherein for each spacer means, the first and second spacers are hingedly coupled to said third spacer and the respective junction between each of said first and second spacers and said third spacer is relieved to accommodate folding of said first and second spacers towards said third spacer. 14. A framed panel unit comprising: a panel; and a plurality of thermoplastic frame members disposed along the edge of said panel; each frame member having first and second opposed side walls defining a channel therebetween, the edge of said panel being received within the channel of each frame member; the channel of each frame member having spacer means therein including a first spacer between said panel and said first side wall for spacing said panel from said first side wall and a second spacer between said panel and said second side wall for spacing said panel from said second side wall and where prior to welding together the ends of said frame members, said spacer means positions said panel within said channel and further retains said frame members on said panel, wherein said channel of each frame member includes a base between the first and second opposed sidewalls, wherein each spacer means further comprises a third spacer arranged between the edge of said panel and the base of said channel and wherein said first and second spacers are coupled to said third spacer, wherein said third spacer includes locator means for positioning said third spacer at a predetermined lateral position between the side walls of said channel and wherein the base of said channel has first and second oppositely sloped upper surfaces which slope transversely of said channel and said locator means includes first and second oppositely sloped lower surfaces of said third spacer which engage the sloped surfaces of said channel such that said third spacer is urged towards a central position within said channel on applying a force to said third spacer towards the base of said channel. 