An assembly for controlling a vehicle, including a fluid contact surface constructed and arranged to act against a fluid passing over the fluid contact surface; and a support structure coupled to the fluid contact surface. The support structure is constructed and arranged to expand or contract between a first position and a second position, such that a first dimension of the support structure changes during movement of the support structure between the first position and the second position, while a second dimension of the support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of the support structure between the first position and the second position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly for controlling a vehicle, comprising: a resilient fluid contact surface constructed and arranged to act against a fluid passing over said fluid contact surface; and a cellular support structure coupled to said fluid contact surface and supporting said fluid contact surface against fluid loads applied to the fluid contact surface, said cellular support structure comprising a plurality of rigid elongate support members extending substantially parallel to each other and spaced from each other within a plane, and a plurality of resilient linking members spaced in a row and fixedly attached between each opposing pair of support members, each linking member further comprising a strut consisting of two legs each attached distally to one of said opposing pair of support members and converging to a flexible hinge suspended between said opposing pair of support members, each said opposing pair of support members and row of linking members there between defining a zero-Poisson effect cellular structure of enclosed cells adapted for expansion and contraction along an axis within said plane without dimensional change along an in-plane transverse axis and without dimensional change along an out-of-plane axis; said support structure constructed and arranged to expand or contract between a first position and a second position by structural flexing deformation of said linking members at said flexible hinges, such that a first in-plane dimension of said support structure changes during movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, while a second transverse in-plane dimension of said support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, and a third out-of-plane dimension of said support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, said fluid contact surface being coupled as an external layer to said cellular support structure for resilient deforming movement along with the support structure, wherein said deforming movement of fluid contact surface is such that its resilience exhibits a Poisson's ratio substantially close to zero in-plane with respect to said first and second dimensions of said support structure movement. 2. An assembly according to claim 1, wherein each of said linking members further comprise: a first leg coupled to a first support member at a proximal end, a second leg coupled to a second support member at a proximal end, said flexible joint being engaged to a distal end of said first leg and a distal end of said second leg . 3. An assembly according to claim 1, wherein said linking members are generally V-shaped. 4. An assembly according to claim 1, wherein said cells form a honeycomb-like structure. 5. An assembly according to claim 1, wherein said cells are of any polygonal shape. 6. An assembly according to claim 1, wherein said support members or said linking members include an integral, active actuating mechanism that changes the shape of said support structure. 7. An assembly according to claim 1, further comprising: a lock coupled to said support structure to maintain said support structure in a desired position. 8. An assembly according to claim 1, wherein each linking member consists of a first leg coupled to said first rib member at a proximal end, a second leg coupled to said second rib member at a proximal end, and a flexible joint engaged to a distal end of said first leg and a distal end of said second leg. 9. An assembly according to claim 1, further comprising: an actuating mechanism coupled to said support structure to flex or deform said support structure enabling the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position. 10. An assembly according to claim 9, wherein said fluid contact surface is a resilient skin that stretches and contracts with movement of said support structure between the first position and the second position, wherein said stretching and contracting of the resilient skin is done so in a manner that exhibits substantially zero Poisson's ratio with respect to the plane of said support structure movement. 11. An assembly according to claim 10, wherein said fluid contact surface is a composite material. 12. An assembly according to claim 1, wherein said fluid contact surface forms part of a fluidfoil. 13. An assembly according to claim 12, wherein said support structure is positioned within said fluidfoil. 14. An assembly according to claim 12, wherein said support members are in formed in the shape of a fluid foil. 15. A vehicle comprising: a main body portion; a first resilient fluid contact surface coupled to said main body portion and constructed and arranged to act against a fluid passing over said first contact surface; and a zero-Poisson effect cellular support structure coupled to said first fluid contact surface and supporting said first fluid contact surface against loads applied to said first fluid contact surface, said cellular support structure having a length dimension in a first direction and a width dimension in a second direction transverse to said first dimension, said zero-Poisson effect support structure further comprising, a first rib support member for securing said cellular support structure to said vehicle at a first point and a second rib support member moveable in said first direction relative to said first rib support member for securing said cellular support structure to said vehicle at a second point, said first rib support member and said second rib support member both being oriented in said second direction, a plurality of enclosed cells linearly arranged in rows at regular intervals and joining said first rib support member with said second rib support member, said cells being formed by a first linking member fixedly attached between said first and second rib support members, said first linking member further comprising a strut consisting of two legs each attached distally to one of said opposing first and second rib support members and converging to a flexible hinge suspended between said first and second rib support members, a second linking member fixedly attached between said first and second rib support members, said first linking member further comprising a strut consisting of two legs each attached distally to one of said opposing first and second rib support members and converging to a flexible hinge suspended between said first and second rib support members, wherein said zero-Poisson effect support structure is constructed and arranged to flex or deform between a first position and a second position by structural flexing deformation of said first and second linking members, such that said length dimension of said cellular support structure changes during said movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, while said width dimension of said support structure remains substantially constant during said movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, and a third out-of-plane dimension of said support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, wherein said fluid contact surface is coupled as an external layer to said cellular support structure for resilient deforming movement along with the support structure. 16. A vehicle according to claim 15, further comprising: an actuating mechanism coupled to said support structure to flex or deform said support structure for enabling the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position. 17. A vehicle according to claim 15, wherein said support structure forms part of a wing. 18. A vehicle according to claim 15, wherein said fluid contact surface forms part of a fluidfoil. 19. A vehicle according to claim 18, wherein said support structure is positioned within said fluidfoil. 20. A vehicle according to claim 15, wherein said fluid contact surface is a resilient skin that stretches and contracts with movement of said support structure between the first position and the second position, wherein said stretching and contracting of the resilient skin is done so in a manner that exhibits substantially zero Poisson's ratio with respect to the plane of said support structure movement. 21. A vehicle according to claim 20, wherein said fluid contact surface is a composite material. 22. A method of controlling a vehicle, comprising: coupling a cellular support structure to a resilient fluid contact surface that is constructed and arranged to act against a fluid passing over said fluid contact surface, said cellular support structure comprising a plurality of rigid rib members extending uninterrupted along a width of said contact surface and defining a plurality of rows there between, and a plurality of enclosed cells linearly arranged within said plurality of rows at regular intervals and joining each of said plurality of rib members with each adjacent rib member, said cells formed by a first linking member fixedly coupled at a first end to a first of said plurality of rib members and fixedly coupled at a second end to a second, adjacent one of said plurality of rib members, a second linking member fixedly coupled at a first end to said first of said plurality of rib members and fixedly coupled at a second end to said second, adjacent one of said plurality of rib members, a portion of said first of said plurality of rib members, said portion extending between said first end of said first linking member and said first end of said second linking member, and said cells thereby defining a zero-Poisson effect cellular structure adapted for expansion and contraction along an axis in a plane without dimensional change along an in-plane transverse axis and without dimensional change along an out-of-plane axis; moving the cellular support structure, which is constructed and arranged to flex or deform, between a first position and a second position by structural flexing deformation of said first and second linking members to control the vehicle, such that a first in-plane dimension of the support structure changes during movement of the support structure between the first position and the second position, while a second transverse in-plane dimension of the support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of the support structure between the first position and the second position, and a third out-of-plane dimension of the support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of the support structure between the first position and the second position, wherein said resilient fluid contact surface is coupled as an external layer to said cellular support structure for deforming movement along with the flex or deformation of the support structure, wherein said deforming movement of the resilient skin occurs in a manner that exhibits substantially zero Poisson's ratio with respect to the plane of said support structure movement of the said first and second dimensions. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising: activating an actuating mechanism coupled to the support structure to flex or deform the support structure for the movement of the support structure between the first position and the second position. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising: permitting the support structure to anatomically return to the first position by the strain energy stored within said resilient fluid contact surface during resilient stretching to said second position. 25. An assembly for controlling a vehicle, comprising: a resilient fluid contact surface constructed and arranged to act against a fluid passing over said contact surface; and a cellular support structure coupled to said fluid contact surface, said support structure having a length dimension in a first direction and a width dimension in a second direction transverse to said first dimension, said support structure comprising at least first and second substantially rigid rib support members extending in said second direction for the entirety of said width dimension and defining a row there between, and a plurality of substantially resilient linking members fixedly attached to said first and second rib support members to define a zero-Poisson effect cellular structure of enclosed cells adapted for expansion and contraction along an in-plane axis in said first direction without dimensional change along an in-plane transverse axis in said second direction and without dimensional change along an out-of-plane axis, each of said plurality of linking members comprising a first end and a second end, said first end connecting to said first rib support member and said second end connecting to said second rib support member, said support structure constructed and arranged such that the plurality of linking members flex or deform by structural deformation of said plurality of linking members between a first position and a second position, such that said length dimension of said support structure changes during movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, while said width dimension of the support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, and a third out-of-plane dimension of the support structure remains substantially constant during the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position, wherein said fluid contact surface resiliently deforms along with said support structure, such that said deforming movement of the resilient fluid contact surface occurs in a manner that exhibits substantially zero Poisson's ratio with respect to the plane of said support structure movement of the said first and second dimensions. 26. An assembly according to claim 25, further comprising: an actuating mechanism coupled to said support structure to flex or deform said support structure enabling the movement of said support structure between said first position and said second position. 27. An assembly according to claim 25, wherein said fluid contact surface is a resilient skin that stretches and contracts with movement of said support structure between the first position and the second position, wherein said movement of the resilient skin occurs in a manner that exhibits substantially zero Poisson's ratio with respect to the plane of said support structure movement of the said first and second dimensions. 28. An assembly according to claim 25, wherein said fluid contact surface forms part of a fluidfoil. 29. An assembly according to claim 28, wherein said support structure is positioned within said fluidfoil. 