Various embodiments of an ambulation system and a movement assist system are disclosed. For example, an ambulation system for a patient may comprise a biological interface apparatus and an ambulation assist apparatus. The biological interface apparatus may comprise a sensor having a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals, a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor, process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal, and transmit the processed signal to a controlled device. The ambulation assist apparatus may comprise a rigid structure configured to provide support between a portion of the patient's body and a surface. Data may be transferred from the ambulation assist apparatus to the biological interface apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ambulation system for a patient comprising: a biological interface apparatus comprising: a sensor adapted to be implanted into a brain of a patient, wherein the sensor comprises a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals emanating from one or more living cells of the patient, wherein the multicellular signals comprise electrical brain signals; a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor, process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal, and transmit the processed signal to a controlled device; and the controlled device configured to receive the processed signal, and an ambulation assist apparatus comprising a rigid structure configured to provide support between a portion of the patient's body and a surface, and at least a second sensor for detecting data relating to the ambulation assist apparatus wherein the data is transferred from the ambulation assist apparatus to the biological interface apparatus. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the ambulation assist apparatus comprises a patient walker. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the second sensor measures one or more of: stress; strain; torque; and vertical position of the walker. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the controlled device causes at least one of the patient's legs to move. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a data transfer mechanism located in one or more of: the biological interface apparatus and the ambulation assist apparatus. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the data transfer mechanism comprises a wireless data transfer mechanism. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a patient input device configured to cause the ambulation assist apparatus to change from a first state to a second state. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the patient input device is selected from the group consisting of: chin joystick; eyebrow EMG switch; EEG activated switch; eye tracker; head tracker; neck movement switch; shoulder movement switch; sip-n-puff joystick controller; speech recognition switch; tongue switch; and any combination thereof. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the second state comprises at least one of: a reset state; a next step of a configuration routine; a stopped state; an alarm state; a message sending state; and a limited control of controlled device state. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to monitor a biological signal of the patient, and wherein the monitored biological signal of the patient causes the ambulation assist apparatus to change from a first state to a second state. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the monitored biological signal is generated by one or more of: eye motion; eyelid motion; facial muscle activation; electromyographic activity; heart rate; EEG; LFP; and respiration. 