A substrate processing apparatus having a transport apparatus, at least one sensor connected to the transport apparatus and a controller. The transport apparatus is adapted for transporting the substrate between processing stations of the processing apparatus. The sensor is capable of sensing the substrate transported by the transporting apparatus. The sensor is arranged for sending at least one signal in response to sensing the substrate. The controller is communicably connected to the sensor and arranged to determine alignment of the substrate in at least two directions, angled relative to each other, relative to a predetermined location. The controller is capable of determining alignment from the at least one signal identifying no more than two points on the substrate and independent of radial variances between substrates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a transport apparatus adapted for transporting a substrate between processing stations of the processing apparatus; at least one sensor connected to the transport apparatus and capable of sensing the substrate transported by the transport apparatus, the at least one sensor being arranged for sending at least one signal in response to sensing the substrate; and a controller communicably connected to the sensor and arranged to determine alignment of the substrate in at least two directions, disposed in a plane of the substrate and angled relative to each other, relative to a predetermined location from the at least one signal identifying no more than two points on the substrate and independent of radial variances between substrates. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a beam source and a beam detector. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the at least one sensor is a through-beam sensor. 4. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the sensor is a reflectance sensor. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller is programmed to transport the substrate, with the transport apparatus, along a linear path, and the at least one signal is in response to the at least one sensor sensing the substrate transported on the linear path. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the linear path extends substantially through a pivot axis on which the transport apparatus is capable of pivoting as a unit. 7. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the linear path is offset a distance from a pivot axis on which the transport apparatus is capable of pivoting as a unit. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising at least another sensor, different from the at least one sensor, and connected to the controller for measuring a predetermined characteristic of the substrate, when the substrate is not transported with the transport apparatus, and wherein the controller is further arranged to determine the alignment of the substrate using the at least one signal and the measurement of the predetermined characteristic. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the at least other sensor is a substrate aligner. 10. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the at least other sensor is separated from the at least one sensor by a partition of the processing apparatus. 