A ground contact switch system comprises a first object configured to contact a ground surface during a stride, and one or more switches coupled to the first object. An inertial measurement unit can be coupled to the first object. The one or more switches are configured to detect when the first object is at a stationary portion of the stride. The one or more switches can also be configured to send a signal to activate an error correction scheme for the inertial measurement unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A ground contact switch system, comprising: a first object configured to contact a ground surface during a stride; one or more switches coupled to the first object; and an inertial measurement unit coupled to the first object; wherein the one or more switches is configured to detect when the first object is at a stationary portion of the stride, and send a signal to activate an error correction scheme for the inertial measurement unit. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a second object that is paired with the first object; and one or more switches coupled to the second object; wherein the one or more switches coupled to the second object is configured to detect when the second object is at a stationary portion of the stride. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising: an inertial measurement unit coupled to the second object; wherein the one or more switches coupled to the second object is configured to send a signal to activate an error correction scheme for the inertial measurement unit coupled to the second object. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the first and second objects comprise footwear. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the footwear comprises a pair of boots or shoes. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein the first and second objects comprise robot feet. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein the switches comprise one or more of a pneumatic switch, an electrical switch, or an ultrasonic switch. 8. A ground contact switch system, comprising: a first item of footwear; one or more switches coupled to the first item of footwear, the switches comprising one or more of a pneumatic switch, an electrical switch, or an ultrasonic switch; and an inertial measurement unit coupled to the first item of footwear; wherein the one or more switches is configured to detect when a foot inside the first item of footwear is at a stationary portion of a stride. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more switches is configured to send a signal to activate an error correction scheme for the inertial measurement unit. 10. The system of claim 8, further comprising: a second item of footwear that is paired with the first item of footwear; and one or more switches coupled to the second item of footwear and comprising one or more of a pneumatic switch, an electrical switch, or an ultrasonic switch; wherein the one or more switches coupled to the second item of footwear is configured to detect when a foot inside the second item of footwear is at a stationary portion of the stride. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising: an inertial measurement unit coupled to the second item of footwear; wherein the one or more switches coupled to the second item of footwear is configured to send a signal to activate an error correction scheme for the inertial measurement unit. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein the pneumatic switch comprises: a flexible reservoir of gas; and a pair of conductive switch plates attached to opposite sides of the flexible reservoir. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the pneumatic switch is embedded in the first item of footwear, or mounted on an outer surface of the first item of footwear. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the pneumatic switch detects that a foot inside the first item of footwear is at a stationary portion of a stride when the flexible reservoir is compressed by the foot sufficiently to cause the switch plates to contact each other and activate a signal. 15. The system of claim 8, wherein the electrical switch comprises: at least two conductive layers in a stacked configuration; and an elastic layer of resistive material or dielectric material interposed between the at least two conductive layers. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the electrical switch is embedded in the first item of footwear, or mounted on an outer surface of a heel or sole of the first item of footwear. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the electrical switch detects that a foot inside the first item of footwear is at a stationary portion of a stride when the elastic layer is compressed by the foot sufficiently to change the resistance or capacitance of the electrical switch to a predetermined threshold level such that the electrical switch activates a signal. 18. The system of claim 8, wherein the ultrasonic switch comprises an ultrasonic transceiver configured to transmit and receive an ultrasonic pulse. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the ultrasonic switch detects that a foot inside the first item of footwear is at a stationary portion of a step when the ultrasonic pulse has a reflected signal portion that reaches a predetermined reflection threshold. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein the ultrasonic transceiver is configured to transmit the ultrasonic pulse toward a bottom outer surface of the first item of footwear, or transmit the ultrasonic pulse toward an insole of the first item of footwear. 