A multi-purpose holding device and method for use with guitar shaped instruments, wherein the device comprises: a pivot axle member having attachment means for attaching the member to a guitar, a U-shaped mounting bracket member having first attachment means for attaching the member to a first substrate, the U-shaped mounting bracket member having second attachment means for attaching the member to a second substrate, the U-shaped mounting bracket member having third attachment means for attaching the member to a third substrate, the U-shaped mounting bracket member having fourth attachment means for attaching the member to a fourth substrate, the pivot axle member has a plate that attaches to the back of the guitar, the guitar with the pivot axle member has a slot for slidable connecting to the U-shaped mounting bracket members of the substrate's one through four, thereby allow a user to quickly and easily detach and reattach the holding substrate for the guitar, wherein the substrates one through four are designed to support the entire weight of the guitar, and wherein said user elects which substrate to attach and remove from said guitar and it what order and when.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-purpose holding device for use with guitar shaped instruments, said device comprising: a pivot axle member which has a plate that attaches to the back of a guitar and screws for connecting said plate to said guitar; a first substrate comprised of a backless mobile guitar shoulder strap having said U-shaped mounting bracket member; said guitar with said pivot axle member has a slot for slidable connecting to said U-shaped mounting bracket member of said substrate, thereby allowing a user to attach said guitar to said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap; wherein said user elects to detach said guitar from said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap, said user will slidable remove said pivot axle member from said U shaped mounting bracket, thereby disengaging said guitar from said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap; after said user has removed said guitar from said first substrate, said user can now elect to attach said guitar to a second substrate; and thereby allowing said user to quickly and easily detach and reattach said guitar to and from various substrates. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said first substrate is a backless mobile guitar shoulder strap comprising: a padded aluminum shoulder support, an adjustable front strap, said U shaped mounting bracket, said adjustable front strap has said U shaped mounting bracket attached to said strap, and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said mobile guitar shoulder strap. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein said second substrate is a guitar stand comprising: a base, an elongated shaft, said U-shaped mounting bracket for securing said guitar to said stand, said base has an elongated flat surface, said shaft has a first end that is mounted to said base and a second end that is attached to said mounting bracket, and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said guitar stand. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein said second substrate is a belt having a means for attaching said U shaped mounting bracket to said belt, said belt has connecting mean for attaching said belt to said user and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said belt. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said second substrate is a wall mount having means for attached to a wall and said U shaped mounting bracket, wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said wall mount to provide an eye catching display. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said guitar is selected from a group consisting of classic guitar, flamenco guitar, plectrum guitar, acoustic guitar, 12-string guitar, Hawaiian guitar, electric guitar, electric bass and guitar video game controller. 7. A multi-purpose holding device for use with guitar shaped instruments, said device comprising: a pivot axle member having attachment means for attaching said member to a guitar; a U-shaped mounting bracket member having a first attachment means for attaching said member to a first substrate; wherein said first substrate is a backless mobile guitar shoulder strap comprising: a padded aluminum shoulder support, an adjustable front strap, said U shaped mounting bracket, said adjustable front strap has said U shaped mounting bracket attached to said strap, and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap; said guitar with said pivot axle member has a slot for slidable connecting to said U-shaped mounting bracket member of said first substrate, thereby allowing a user to attach said guitar to said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap; wherein said user elects to detach said guitar from said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap, said user will slidable remove said pivot axle member from said U shaped mounting bracket, thereby disengaging said guitar from said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap; after said user has removed said guitar from said first substrate, said user can now elect to attach said guitar to a second substrate; and thereby allowing said user to quickly and easily detach and reattach said guitar to and from various substrates. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein said second substrate is a guitar stand comprising: a base, an elongated shaft, said U-shaped mounting bracket for securing said guitar to said stand, said base has an elongated flat surface, said shaft has a first end that is mounted to said base and a second end that is attached to said mounting bracket, and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said guitar stand. 9. The device of claim 7, wherein said second substrate is a belt having a means for attaching said U shaped mounting bracket to said belt, said belt has connecting mean for attaching said belt to said user and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said belt. 10. The device of claim 7, wherein said second substrate is a wall mount having means for attached to a wall and said U shaped mounting bracket, wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said wall mount to provide an eye catching display. 11. The device of claim 7, wherein said guitar is selected from a group consisting of classic guitar, flamenco guitar, plectrum guitar, acoustic guitar, 12-string guitar, Hawaiian guitar, electric guitar, electric bass and guitar video game controller. 12. A multi-purpose holding device for use with guitar shaped instruments, said device comprising: a pivot axle member having attachment means for attaching said member to a guitar; a U-shaped mounting bracket member having a first attachment means for attaching said member to a first substrate; wherein said first substrate is a backless mobile guitar shoulder strap which has an adjustable front strap and said U shaped mounting bracket which it is attached to, wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for connecting said guitar to said strap, thereby allowing said user to be mobile or move around while operating said guitar; said guitar with said pivot axle member has a slot for slidable connecting to said U-shaped mounting bracket member of said first substrate, thereby allowing a user to attach said guitar to said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap; wherein said user elects to detach said guitar from said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap, said user will slidable remove said pivot axle member from said U shaped mounting bracket, thereby disengaging said guitar from said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap; after said user has removed said guitar from said first substrate, said user can now elect to attach said guitar to a second substrate; and thereby allowing said user to quickly and easily detach and reattach said guitar to and from various substrates. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein said first substrate is a backless mobile guitar shoulder strap further comprising: a padded aluminum shoulder support, said adjustable front strap, said U shaped mounting bracket, said adjustable front strap has said U shaped mounting bracket attached to said strap, and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said backless mobile guitar shoulder strap. 14. The device of claim 12, wherein said second substrate is a guitar stand comprising: a base, an elongated shaft, said U-shaped mounting bracket for securing said guitar to said stand, said base has an elongated flat surface, said shaft has a first end that is mounted to said base and a second end that is attached to said mounting bracket, and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said guitar stand. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein said elongated shaft has a height adjustable shaft. 16. The device of claim 14, wherein said elongated shaft has a flexible gooseneck. 17. The device of claim 14, wherein said guitar stand has an adjustable and flexible extending shaft that allows the user to move around while operating the guitar on the stand. 18. The device of claim 12, wherein said second substrate is a belt having a means for attaching said U shaped mounting bracket to said belt, said belt has connecting mean for attaching said belt to said user and wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said belt. 19. The device of claim 12, wherein said second substrate is a wall mount having means for attached to a wall and said U shaped mounting bracket, wherein said U shaped mounting bracket has slidable connecting means for detaching and reattaching said guitar to said wall mount to provide an eye catching display. 20. The device of claim 12, wherein said guitar is selected from a group consisting of classic guitar, flamenco guitar, plectrum guitar, acoustic guitar, 12-string guitar, Hawaiian guitar, electric guitar, electric bass and guitar video game controller. 