The present invention relates to a vacuum source for providing vacuum to at least a first vacuum drain through conduits, comprising at least a first and a second vacuum pump. The vacuum source comprises a control system adapted to detect the consumed airflow, and to control the operation of each of the first and second vacuum pump based on the detected airflow.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Milking system for milking animals comprising at least a first and a second milking machine and a vacuum source for providing said at least first and second milking machines with vacuum through conduits, wherein a control system connected to said first and second milking machines and to said vacuum source and provided to regulate said vacuum source depending on the vacuum requirements of said at least first and second milking machines, wherein said control system is adapted to detect a milking machine operating mode, for each of said at least first and second milking machines, wherein a first detected milking machine operating mode for a milking machine has different vacuum requirements than a second detected milking machine operating mode, said at least first and second milking machines are operating completely independent of each other, so that one milking machine may operate in any milking machine operating mode independent of the other, and said control system is provided to select a vacuum source operating mode for said vacuum source. 2. The milking system according to claim 1, wherein said milking machine operating mode is detected from a set of milking machine operating modes, and said vacuum source operating mode is selected from a set of vacuum source operating modes, depending on the detected milking machine operating mode for said at least first and second milking machines. 3. The milking system according to claim 1, wherein said control system is adapted to receive a vacuum request signal from each of said at least first and second milking machine, said control system is adapted to determine from the received vacuum request signals a vacuum requirement for all of said at least first and second milking machine, and said control system is adapted to regulate said vacuum source to provide said required vacuum. 4. The milking system according to claim 1, wherein said vacuum source comprises at least two individually controllable vacuum pumps connectable, through said conduits, to each of said at least first and second milking machines. 5. The milking system according to claim 4, wherein said control system is provided to individually control each of said at least two vacuum pumps in relation to vacuum requirements for said at least first and second milking machines. 6. The milking system according to claim 4, wherein said conduits comprise individually controllable valves adapted to disconnect or connect a particular one of said vacuum pumps, and said control system is provided to control said valves in relation to vacuum requirements for said at least first and second milking machines. 7. The milking system according to claim 2, wherein said set of milking machine operating modes comprises stand-by mode, milking mode and washing mode. 8. The milking system according to claim 2, wherein said set of vacuum source operating modes comprises at least one of: stand-by mode, maintain vacuum level mode, maintain airflow mode, maintain vacuum level and minimum airflow mode and full mode. 9. The milking system according to claim 3, wherein said vacuum request signal comprises data relating to expected vacuum requirements, including requirements regarding vacuum level and airflow or expected vacuum level and airflow, for the milking machine. 10. The milking system according to claim 3, wherein said vacuum request signal comprises information regarding a requested milking machine operating mode. 11. The milking system according to claim 1, wherein said control system comprises table information relating a specific milking machine operating mode to vacuum level requirements and expected airflow. 12. The milking system according to claim 1, wherein said milking machine is an automatic robotic milking machine. 13. A milking system comprising a set of automatic milking machines, wherein each milking machine in said set of milking machines operates in a separate operating mode including milking and equipment washing, said milking system further comprises a set of controlled vacuum pumps, wherein each vacuum pump, in said set of vacuum pumps, operates in a separate pump operating mode, wherein conduits connecting said set of vacuum pumps to said set of milking machines, at least one controllable valve provided in said conduits for connecting or disconnecting vacuum pumps, in said set of vacuum pumps, to milking machines in said set of milking machines, and a control system provided to control the operating mode for each vacuum pump in said set of vacuum pumps and to control said at least one controllable valve. 14. A milking system according to claim 13, wherein at least one vacuum pump in said set of vacuum pumps is a rotation speed controlled vacuum pump. 15. A milking system according to claim 13, wherein each vacuum pump in said set of vacuum pumps is connected through said conduits to each milking machine in said set of milking machines. 16. A milking system according to claim 14, wherein said at least one rotation speed controlled vacuum pump operates in at least one of the pump operating modes: off, full, maintain a specified vacuum level, maintain a specified air flow and maintain a specified vacuum level with a specified air flow. 17. The milking system according to claim 13, wherein said control system is connected to each milking machine in said set of milking machines and provided to detect milking machine vacuum requirements. 18. The milking system according to claim 13, wherein said control system is connected to each milking machine in said set of milking machines and provided to receive vacuum requirement request messages from each milking machine in said set of milking machines. 19. The milking system according to claim 18, wherein said vacuum requirement request comprises one or more requirements from a set of requirements including: minimum vacuum level, maximum vacuum level, minimum air flow, maximum air flow, time of deliverance. 20. The milking system according to claim 18, wherein said control system is provided to send a confirmation message to a milking machine having sent a vacuum requirement request message at least indicating if said request is granted. 21. The milking system according to claim 20, wherein said confirmation message also indicates when said vacuum requirement is available. 22. The milking system according to claim 13, wherein said milking machine is an automatic robotic milking machine. 