The automated drug discrimination system inspects the drug being dispensed during the dispensing process so that the pharmacist can be certain the correct formulation, dosage and quality of pharmaceuticals were dispensed so the pharmacist does not need to spend as much time examining the dispensed drug. The pills are dispensed through a dispensing area using a dispensing apparatus and are collected in a collection area. At least two sensors take a plurality of measurements of an aggregate of the pills during the dispensing process or of each pill as it moves through the dispensing area. A discrimination system compares the measurements taken to verify that the pills dispensed are the type of pharmaceuticals intended to be dispensed as identified in the individual prescription for at least one of formulation and dosage of the pill.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for verifying an individual prescription identifying at least one of a formulation and a dosage of pharmaceutical pills during a dispensing process for the individual prescription, the system comprising: a pill dispensing apparatus for dispensing individual ones of the pills in an individual prescription into and through a dispensing area during the dispensing process; a pill collection area for collecting the pills dispensed through the dispensing area for the individual prescription, the dispensing area connected between the dispensing apparatus and the collection area, wherein the pills collected in the collection area during the dispensing process form an aggregate to be dispensed in the individual prescription; at least two sensors adjacent to the dispensing area for taking a plurality of measurements of the aggregate at multiple times during the dispensing process for the individual prescription; and a discrimination system for comparing the plurality of measurements to stored pharmaceutical models to verify that a plurality of characteristics of the aggregate substantially matches the stored pharmaceutical models of pills identified in the individual prescription for at least one of the formulation and the dosage of the pill in the aggregate. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensors comprising the at least two sensors are the same type of sensor. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensors comprising the at least two sensors are different types of sensors. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two sensors are further configured to take a plurality of measurements of the aggregate at a plurality of times during the dispensing process, each time associated with a different level of the aggregate. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two sensors are further configured to take a plurality of measurements of the aggregate at a plurality of times during the dispensing process, each time associated with a different count of pills in the aggregate. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the pill collection area is a temporary holding chute into which the pills are deposited, the chute having a gate, the gate retaining the pills in the chute during the taking of measurements, the gate adapted to open to release the pills into a container. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the pill collection area is a container into which the pills are deposited during the taking of measurements, the container adapted to contain the pills for distribution to a patient. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring the dosage of the pills. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring the formulation of the pills. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring a size of the pills. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least two sensors comprise a spectrometer and a camera. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a location substantially adjacent to the pill collection area. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a point in time substantially near a point in time at which the pills enter the pill collection area. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring a weight of the pills. 15. A method of verifying an individual prescription identifying at least one of a formulation and a dosage of pills during a dispensing process for the individual prescription, wherein measurements are taken with at least two sensors adjacent to a dispensing area that is connected to a pill collection area, the method comprising: dispensing individual ones of the pills in an individual prescription into and through the dispensing area during the dispensing process; collecting in the pill collection area the pills dispensed through the dispensing area for the individual prescription, wherein the pills collected during the dispensing process form an aggregate to be dispensed in the individual prescription; taking a plurality of measurements of the aggregate with the at least two sensors at multiple times during the dispensing process for the individual prescription; and comparing the plurality of measurements to stored pharmaceutical models to verify that a plurality of characteristics of the aggregate substantially matches the stored pharmaceutical models of pills identified in the individual prescription for at least one of the formulation and the dosage of the pill in the aggregate. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein sensors comprising the at least two sensors are same type of sensor. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein sensors comprising the at least two sensors are different types of sensors. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein taking the plurality of measurements further comprises taking measurements of the aggregate at a plurality of times during the dispensing process, each time associated with a different level of the aggregate. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein taking the plurality of measurements further comprises taking measurements of the aggregate at a plurality of times during the dispensing process, each time associated with a different count of pills in the aggregate. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein collecting the pills further comprises collecting the pills in a temporary holding chute into which the pills are deposited, the chute having gate, the gate retaining the pills in the chute during the taking of measurements, the gate adapted to open to release the pills into a container. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein collecting the pills further comprises collecting the pills in a container into which the pills are deposited during the taking of measurements, the container adapted to contain the pills for distribution to a patient. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein comparing the plurality of measurements further comprises verifying that the dosage of the aggregate substantially matches a dosage of the pills identified in the individual prescription. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein comparing the plurality of measurements further comprises verifying that the formulation of the aggregate substantially matches a formulation of the pills identified in the individual prescription. 24. The method of claim 15, wherein comparing the plurality of measurements further comprises verifying that a weight of the aggregate substantially matches a weight model of the pills specified in the individual prescription. 25. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least two sensors comprise a spectrometer and a camera. 26. The method of claim 15, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a location substantially adjacent to the pill collection area. 27. The method of claim 15, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a point in time substantially near a point in time at which the pills enter the pill collection area. 28. A system for verifying an individual prescription identifying at least one of a formulation and a dosage of pharmaceutical pills during a dispensing process for the individual prescription, the system comprising: a pill dispensing apparatus for dispensing individual ones of the pills in an individual prescription into and through a dispensing area during the dispensing process; a pill collection area for collecting the pills dispensed through the dispensing area for the individual prescription, the dispensing area connected between the dispensing apparatus and the collection area, wherein the pills collected in the collection area during the dispensing process form an aggregate to be dispensed in the individual prescription; at least two sensors adjacent to the dispensing area for taking a plurality of measurements of the pills at multiple times during the dispensing process for the individual prescription, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured to take a measurement of each of the pills as each is moving through the dispensing area and at least one of the at least two sensors is configured to take a plurality of measurements of the aggregate of the pills in the pill collection area during the dispensing process; and a discrimination system for comparing the plurality of measurements to stored pharmaceutical models to verify that a plurality of characteristics of each of the pills substantially matches the stored pharmaceutical models of pills identified in the individual prescription for at least one of the formulation and the dosage of the pill. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the sensors comprising the at least two sensors are the same type of sensor. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the sensors comprising the at least two sensors are different types of sensors. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein the pill collection area is a temporary holding chute into which the pills are deposited, the chute having a gate, the gate retaining the pills in the chute during the taking of measurements, the gate adapted to open to release the pills into a container. 32. The system of claim 28, wherein the pill collection area is a container into which the pills are deposited during the taking of measurements, the container adapted to contain the pills for distribution to a patient. 33. The system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring the dosage of the pills. 34. The system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring the formulation of the pills. 35. The system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring a volume of the pills. 36. The system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is an E-field sensor. 37. The system of claim 28, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a location substantially adjacent to the pill collection area. 38. The system of claim 28, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a point in time substantially near a point in time at which the pills enter the pill collection area. 39. The system of claim 28, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for measuring a weight of the pills. 40. A method of verifying an individual prescription identifying at least one of a formulation and a dosage of pharmaceutical pills during a dispensing process for the individual prescription, wherein measurements are taken with at least two sensors adjacent to a dispensing area that is connected to a pill collection area, the method comprising: dispensing individual ones of the pills in an individual prescription into and through the dispensing area during the dispensing process; collecting in the pill collection area the pills dispensed through the dispensing area for the individual prescription, wherein the pills collected during the dispensing process form an aggregate to be dispensed in the individual prescription; taking a plurality of measurements of the pills with the at least two sensors at multiple times during the dispensing process for the individual prescription, wherein at least one of the at least two sensors is configured to take a measurement of each of the pills as each is moving through the dispensing area and at least one of the at least two sensors is configured for taking a plurality of measurements of the aggregate of the pills in the pill collection area during the dispensing process; and comparing the plurality of measurements to stored pharmaceutical models to verify that a plurality of characteristics of each of the pills substantially matches the stored pharmaceutical models of pills identified in the individual prescription for at least one of the formulation and the dosage of the pill. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein sensors comprising the at least two sensors are same type of sensor. 42. The method of claim 40, wherein sensors comprising the at least two sensors are different types of sensors. 43. The method of claim 40, wherein collecting the pills further comprises collecting the pills in a temporary holding chute into which the pills are deposited, the chute having gate, the gate retaining the pills in the chute during the taking of measurements, the gate adapted to open to release the pills into a container. 44. The method of claim 40, wherein collecting the pills further comprises collecting the pills in a container into which the pills are deposited during the taking of measurements, the container adapted to contain the pills for distribution to a patient. 45. The method of claim 40, wherein comparing the plurality of measurements further comprises verifying that the dosage of the pills substantially matches a dosage of the pills identified in the individual prescription. 46. The method of claim 40, wherein comparing the plurality of measurements further comprises verifying that the formulation of the pills substantially matches a formulation of the pills identified in the individual prescription. 47. The method of claim 40, wherein comparing the plurality of measurements further comprises verifying that a volume of the pills substantially matches a volume of the pills identified in the individual prescription. 48. The method of claim 40, wherein comparing the plurality of measurements further comprises verifying that an amount of fragmentation of the pills is below an acceptable amount of fragmentation of the pills identified in the individual prescription. 49. The method of claim 40, wherein the at least one of the at least two sensors is an E-field sensor. 50. The method of claim 40, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a location substantially adjacent to the pill collection area. 51. The method of claim 40, wherein the measurements are taken during the dispensing process at a point in time substantially near a point in time at which the pills enter the pill collection area. 