A storage device transporter is provided for transporting a storage device and for mounting a storage device within a test slot. The storage device transporter includes a frame that is configured to receive and support a storage device. The storage device transporter also includes a conductive heating assembly that is associated with the frame. The conductive heating assembly is arranged to heat a storage device supported by the frame by way of thermal conduction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device transporter for mounting a storage device within a test slot, the storage device transporter comprising: a frame configured to receive and support a storage device; a conductive heating assembly associated with the frame, wherein the conductive heating assembly is arranged to heat a storage device supported by the frame by way of thermal conduction; and a clamping mechanism operatively associated with the frame, wherein the clamping mechanism is configured to move the conductive heating assembly into contact with a storage device supported by the frame and simultaneously clamp the storage device against movement relative to the test slot in response to pressure reactive to the test slot. 2. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the clamping mechanism is configured to move the conductive heating assembly and a temperature sensor into contact with a storage device supported by the frame. 3. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the clamping mechanism is further configured to clamp the storage device against movement relative to the frame. 4. A test slot assembly comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, and ii.) a conductive heating assembly associated with the frame and arranged to heat a storage device supported by the frame by way of thermal conduction; iii.) a clamping mechanism operatively associated with the frame. wherein the clamping mechanism is configured to move the conductive heating assembly into contact with a storage device supported by the frame and simultaneously clamp the storage device against movement relative to a test slot in response to pressure reactive to the test slot; and B.) the test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device. 5. The test slot assembly of claim 4, wherein the clamping mechanism is further configured to clamp the storage device against movement relative to the frame. 6. A storage device testing system comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, and ii.) a conductive heating assembly associated with the frame and arranged to heat a storage device supported by the frame by way of thermal conduction; iii.) a clamping mechanism operatively associated with the frame, wherein the clamping mechanism is configured to move the conductive heating assembly into contact with a storage device supported by the frame and simultaneously clamp the storage device against movement relative to a test slot in response to pressure reactive to the test slot; and B.) the test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter; ii.) a connection interface board; and C.) test electronics configured to communicate one or more test routines to a storage device disposed within the test compartment, wherein the connection interface board is configured to provide electrical communication between the conductive heating assembly and the test electronics when the storage device transporter is disposed within the test compartment. 7. The storage device testing system of claim 6, wherein the clamping mechanism is further configured to clamp the storage device against movement relative to the frame. 