A surgical instrument is provided, including: at least one articulatable arm having a distal end, a proximal end, and at least one joint region disposed between the distal and proximal ends; an optical fiber bend sensor provided in the at least one joint region of the at least one articulatable arm; a detection system coupled to the optical fiber bend sensor, said detection system comprising a light source and a light detector for detecting light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor to determine a position of at least one joint region of the at least one articulatable arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor; and a control system comprising a servo controller for effectuating movement of the arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a surgical instrument comprising: at least one elongate arm having: a distal end, a proximal end, at least one joint region disposed between the distal and proximal ends, and an optic fiber including an optical fiber bend sensor provided in the at least one joint region of the at least one elongate arm; a detection system, coupled to the optical fiber bend sensor, comprising: a light source, and a light detector for detecting light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor, wherein said detection system determines information characterizing the at least one joint region of the at least one elongate arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor; and a control system, coupled to said detection system, comprising one or more servo controllers for effectuating movement of the at least one elongate arm, wherein the control system receives the information from said detection system, and wherein the control system utilizes the information as feedback to a loop in a real time closed feedback loop within the control system to perform said effectuating movement of the at least one elongate arm; wherein: said at least one joint region comprises a flexible segment; wherein: said flexible segment comprises a passively-bendable region; and said at least one elongate arm further comprises an actively-controlled bendable region including at least one joint region. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises a plurality of optical fiber cores. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises a plurality of optical fiber cores, wherein each optical fiber core comprises at least one Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) region; and the detection system detects light reflected by or transmitted through the FBG regions to determine a position of the at least one joint region of the at least one elongate arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the FBG regions. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the information received from the detection system comprises position information, and the position information is the feedback to a position loop in the real time closed feedback loop. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein: the control system further comprises a display system, wherein the control system is configured to combine image data relative to a fixed external coordinate system with the position information from the detection system to display the image data relative to a coordinate system of the at least one elongate arm. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising: an imaging device provided on the at least one elongate arm; wherein the control system is configured to display an image from the imaging device and the image data relative to a coordinate system of the image from the imaging device. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an actuator for actuating movement of the at least one joint region of the at least one elongate arm; and an actuator sensor detecting a movement or position of the actuator, wherein the control system receives both information from the detection system and information from the actuator sensor, and wherein the control system utilizes both the information from the detection system and the information from the actuator system as feedback in the real time closed feedback loop to perform said effectuating movement of the at least one elongate arm. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein: the actuator sensor detects indicia of one or more of position, velocity, acceleration, and applied force of the actuator; and the information from the actuator sensor comprises information regarding one or more of position, velocity, acceleration, and applied force from the actuator sensor. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein: said at least one joint region is included in a plurality of joint regions; said actuator is included in a plurality of actuators, wherein each actuator in said plurality of actuators actuates movement of one joint region of the plurality of joint regions so that each joint region has a different actuator; and said actuator sensor is included in one or more actuator sensors, wherein each actuator sensor in said one or more actuator sensors detects a movement or position of at least one actuator. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an imaging device provided on the at least one elongate arm; wherein the control system comprises a display system, and wherein said display system displays an image from the imaging device and displays a position of the imaging device based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the control system comprises a control input device for receiving control inputs from a user, wherein the control input device provides feedback to a user regarding at least one of a position, and an applied force of the at least one elongate arm based on said information received by the control system from the detection system. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said detection system determines a temperature of at least one location of the at least one elongate arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said at least one joint region comprises an articulable joint. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said optical fiber bend sensor comprises a single optical fiber including a plurality of optical fiber cores. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein: the at least one elongate arm includes a channel; the single optical fiber is provided in the channel in the at least one elongate arm; and the single optical fiber is movable in the channel. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises at least three optical fiber cores. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein: the single optical fiber is axially fixed to at least one anchor point fixed relative to the at least one elongate arm. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein: said at least one joint region is included in a plurality of joint regions; and wherein each optical fiber core comprises a plurality of fiber Bragg grating (FBG) regions, with each FBG region being positioned to correspond to one of the plurality of joint regions. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein: the single optical fiber is anchored to an anchor point fixed relative to the at least one elongate arm; and each FBG region has a length greater than a length of the joint region such that the FBG region continues to detect movement of the corresponding joint region despite axial movement of the optical fiber cores relative to the at least one elongate arm caused by movement of the joint regions. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein: the detection system is configured to measure a shape of the detected light from each of the FBG regions. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein: the detection system is configured to detect a shift in wavelength of the detected light from each of the FBG regions. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the detection system is configured to determine an applied force of the at least one joint region of the at least one elongate arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein: the control system receives force information from the detection system. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said at least one elongate arm is included in a plurality of elongate arms. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises a plurality of optical fiber cores. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises a plurality of optical fiber cores, wherein each optical fiber core comprises at least one Fiber Bragg Grating (FBG) region. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said detection system determines a position of at least one location of the at least one elongate arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor. 28. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the control system utilizes the information to compensate for motion of the passively-bendable region. 29. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the control system further comprises a display system, and the control system is configured to combine image data relative to a fixed external coordinate system with the information from the detection system to display the image data relative to a coordinate system of the at least one elongate arm. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, further comprising: an imaging device provided on the at least one elongate arm; and the control system is configured to display an image from the imaging device and the image data relative to a coordinate system of the image from the imaging device. 31. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising: an imaging device provided on the at least one elongate arm; wherein the control system comprises a display system, and wherein said display system displays an image from the imaging device and displays a position of the imaging device based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein: the control system comprises a control input device for receiving control inputs from a user, wherein the control input device provides feedback to a user regarding at least one of a position, and an applied force of the at least one elongate arm based on said information received by the control system from the detection system. 33. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said detection system determines a temperature of at least one location of the at least one elongate arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the optical fiber bend sensor. 34. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said optical fiber bend sensor comprises a single optical fiber including a plurality of optical fiber cores. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein: the at least one elongate arm includes a channel; the single optical fiber is provided in the channel in the at least one elongate arm; and the single optical fiber is movable in the channel. 36. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises at least three optical fiber cores. 37. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein: the single optical fiber is axially fixed to at least one anchor point fixed relative to the at least one elongate arm. 38. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises a plurality of optical fiber cores, each optical fiber core comprising a plurality of fiber Bragg grating (FBG) regions, wherein at least one FBG region is provided in the passively-bendable region, and at least one FBG region is provided in at least one actively-controlled bendable region. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein: the control system utilizes the information to compensate for motion of the passively-bendable region. 40. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the actively-controlled bendable region comprises a plurality of rigid links coupled by the at least one joint region. 41. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein: said at least one joint region is included in a plurality of joint regions; and each optical fiber core comprises a plurality of fiber Bragg grating (FBG) regions, with each FBG region being positioned to correspond to one of the plurality of joint regions. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein: the single optical fiber is anchored to an anchor point fixed relative to the at least one elongate arm; and each FBG region has a length greater than a length of the joint region such that the FBG region continues to detect movement of the corresponding joint region despite axial movement of the optical fiber cores relative to the at least one elongate arm caused by movement of the joint regions. 43. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein: the detection system is configured to measure a shape of the detected light from each of the FBG regions. 44. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein: the detection system is configured to measure a shift in wavelength of the detected light from each of the FBG regions. 45. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the optical fiber bend sensor comprises a plurality of optical fiber cores; each optical fiber core comprises at least one FBG region; and the detection system is configured to determine an applied force of the at least one joint region of the at least one elongate arm based on the detected light reflected by or transmitted through the FBG regions. 46. The apparatus of claim 45, wherein: the control system receives force information from the detection system. 47. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the actively-controlled bendable region is included in a plurality of actively-controlled bendable regions, each actively-controlled bendable region including at least one joint region. 48. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an actuator for actuating movement of the at least one joint region of the at least one elongate arm; and an actuator sensor detecting a movement or position of the actuator; wherein the control system receives both information from the detection system and information from the actuator sensor, and wherein the control system utilizes both the information from the actuator sensor and the information from the detection system as feedback in the real time closed feedback loop to perform said effectuating movement of the at least one elongate arm. 49. The apparatus of claim 48, wherein: the actuator sensor detects indicia of one or more of position, velocity, acceleration, and applied force of the actuator; and the information from the actuator sensor comprises one or more of position, velocity, acceleration, and applied force from the actuator sensor. 50. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said at least one elongate arm is included in a plurality of elongate arms. 