A device for determining the teat positions of a dairy animal after milking. The device is provided with at least one position-measuring device for determining a position of a teat prior to the milking of the dairy animal and for emitting a position signal corresponding to the teat position. The position-measuring device generates individual teat position signals and a control unit determines on the basis of the teat position signals determined before the milking, planes of symmetry extending substantially parallel to the teats. The expected positions are calculated with respect to the planes of symmetry.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for determining the expected teat positions of a dairy animal after milking thereof comprising; a position-measuring device for determining pre-milking positions of the teats prior to the milking of the dairy animal; a control unit comprising an algorithm for computing on the basis of the pre-milking positions and without post-milking measurement, expected post-milking positions for the teats, the expected post-milking teat positions being different from the pre-milking teat positions; and an animal related action device comprising an action member for performing a non-milking animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, the control unit controlling the animal related action device on the basis of the expected post-milking positions for the teats. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the algorithm computes the post-milking teat positions by locating a point of symmetry of at least two teats and scaling a distance from the pre-milking teat positions to the point of symmetry. 3. The device as claimed in claim 1, the dairy animal having a left rear teat, a right rear teat, a left front teat and a right front teat wherein the control unit comprises an algorithm for determining a first plane of symmetry between front and rear teats and for determining a second plane of symmetry between the left and right teats. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the control unit determines a distance from a teat to the first plane of symmetry or the second plane of symmetry. 5. The device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the control unit performs a multiplication of the distance by a factor for obtaining an arithmetically operated position signal. 6. The device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the factor is between approximately 0.7 and approximately 0.95. 7. The device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the control unit controls a movement of the animal related action device from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking, with the aid of the arithmetically operated position signal, and further controls the action member in the operative position. 8. The device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the control unit is suitable for controlling an action member for performing an animal related action on the dairy animal in various ways and wherein the control unit is suitable for selecting one of the ways of performing with the aid of the position signal, the arithmetically operated position signal, a parameter signal, a teat orifice condition signal, a spray pattern signal, a comparison signal or combinations of the aforementioned signals. 9. The device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the control unit selects a way of performing that comprises the repeat performance of an animal related action on the dairy animal. 10. The device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the control unit selects a way of performing that comprises first performing, at least once, an animal related action on the dairy animal in a first way of performing and subsequently performing, at least once, an animal related action on the dairy animal in a second way of performing, the first and the second way of performing differing from each other. 11. The device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the distance is a perpendicular distance between an individual teat position and a relevant plane of symmetry. 12. The device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a connection device for connecting a teat cup to a teat of the dairy animal, the control unit controlling the connection device. 13. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the device further comprises a parameter detector for determining an animal related parameter and for emitting a parameter signal corresponding to the determined animal related parameter, and in that the control unit is suitable for controlling, at least partially with the aid of the parameter signal, a connection device for connecting a teat cup to the teat of the dairy animal, or a movement of an animal related action device comprising an action member for performing an animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking and for controlling the action member. 14. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the device further comprises a teat orifice condition detector for detecting a teat orifice condition of an orifice of the teat and for emitting a teat orifice condition signal, and in that the control unit is suitable for controlling, at least partially with the aid of the teat orifice condition signal, a connection device for connecting a teat cup to the teat of the dairy animal, or a movement of an animal related action device comprising an action member for performing an animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking and for controlling the action member. 15. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the action member comprises a spraying device comprising a spraying element for applying a fluid to the teat of a dairy animal by spraying and a spray pattern detector for detecting a spray pattern originating from the spraying device and for emitting a spray pattern signal, wherein the control unit is suitable for controlling, at least partially with the aid of the spray pattern signal, a movement of the spraying device from an inoperative position to a spraying position after the milking and for controlling the spraying element or activating a warning signal. 16. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the device is provided with an image-recording device for recording an image of a part of the dairy animal on which an animal related action has been performed and with a computer loaded with image-comparing software for comparing the recorded image with a previously stored reference criterion and for emitting a comparison signal which is indicative of the comparison result, and in that the control unit is suitable for controlling, at least partially with the aid of the comparison signal, a movement of an animal related action device comprising an action member for performing an animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking and for controlling the action member or activating a warning signal. 17. A method of determining the expected teat positions of a dairy animal after milking thereof, the method comprising: determining pre-milking teat positions of the individual teats of the dairy animal prior to milking using a position-measuring device; calculating on the basis of the pre-milking teat positions and without post-milking measurement, post-milking teat positions corresponding to the expected positions of the teats after milking, the expected post-milking teat positions being different from the pre-milking teat positions by using a control unit comprising an algorithm; and performing a non-milking animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, the control unit controlling the animal related action on the basis of the expected post-milking positions for the teats. 18. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the post-milking teat positions are calculated by scaling a distance from the pre-milking teat positions to a point of symmetry. 19. The method as claimed in claim 17, the dairy animal having a left rear teat, a right rear teat, a left front teat and a right front teat, wherein the method comprises: determining a first plane of symmetry between the front and rear teats; and determining a second plane of symmetry between the left and right teats. 20. The method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the method comprises determining a distance from a teat to the first plane of symmetry or a distance to the second plane of symmetry. 21. The method as claimed in claim 20, wherein the method comprises performing as an algorithm a multiplication of the distance by a factor for obtaining an arithmetically operated position signal. 22. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the distance is a perpendicular distance between an individual teat position and a relevant plane of symmetry. 23. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the factor is between approximately 0.7 and approximately 0.95. 24. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the animal related action is performed using an animal related action device having an action member and the method comprises controlling, with the aid of the arithmetically operated position signal, a movement of the animal related action device from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking, and further controlling the action member at the operative position. 25. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the method further comprises: controlling an action member for performing, in various ways, an animal related action on the dairy animal; selecting, with the aid of the position signal, the arithmetically operated position signal, a parameter signal, a teat orifice condition signal, a spray pattern signal, a comparison signal or combinations of the aforementioned signals, one of the ways of performing the animal related action. 26. The method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the method further comprises selecting a way of performing that comprises the repeat performance of an animal related action on the dairy animal. 27. The method as claimed in claim 25, wherein the method comprises selecting a way of performing that comprises first performing, at least once, an animal related action on the dairy animal in a first way of performing, and subsequently performing, at least once, an animal related action on the dairy animal in a second way of performing, the first and the second way of performing differing from each other. 28. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the method comprises connecting a teat cup to the teat of the dairy animal. 29. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the method further comprises: determining an animal related parameter and emitting a parameter signal corresponding to the determined animal related parameter; and controlling, at least partially with the aid of the parameter signal, a connection device for connecting a teat cup to the teat of the dairy animal, or a movement of an animal related action device comprising an action member for performing an animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking, and controlling the action member at the operative position. 30. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the method further comprises: detecting a teat orifice condition of an orifice of the teat and emitting a teat orifice condition signal; and controlling, at least partially with the aid of the teat orifice condition signal, a connection device for connecting a teat cup to the teat of the dairy animal, or a movement of an animal related action device comprising an action member for performing an animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking, and controlling the action member at the operative position. 31. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the non-milking animal related action comprises: applying a fluid to the teat of the dairy animal by spraying by means of a spraying device; detecting a spray pattern of the spraying device and emitting a spray pattern signal; controlling, at least partially with the aid of the spray pattern signal, a movement of the spraying device from an inoperative position to a spraying position after the milking; and controlling the spraying element or activating a warning signal. 32. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the method further comprises: recording an image of a part of the dairy animal on which an animal related action has been performed; comparing the recorded image with a previously stored reference criterion and emitting a comparison signal indicative of the comparison result; controlling, at least partially with the aid of the comparison signal, a movement of an animal related action device comprising an action member for performing an animal related action on the dairy animal after the milking, from an inoperative position to an operative position after the milking; and controlling the action member or activating a warning signal. 