A system and method for processing a plurality of data storage and retrieval management or manifest files in a virtual data storage system. A plurality of individual management/manifest files, which are each used to track data management information stored on a data storage device, are merged into a single management or manifest file that can then be used to subsequently manage the input or import of data such as logical volumes from one or more physical media. This single management/manifest file could be used, for example, in a media import operation for importing a media cartridge or device into a media library such as a data storage library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for merging a plurality of manifest files that are the resultant output from different export operations, each having at least one multi-volume media indicia and associated virtual volume indicia, the method comprising the steps of: retrieving each of the associated virtual volume indicia from the plurality of manifest files and selectively copying certain of the retrieved virtual volume indicia, determined by comparing a virtual volume indicia for a given virtual volume retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding virtual volume indicia for the given virtual volume retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current, to an output file; and retrieving each of the associated multi-volume media indicia from the plurality of manifest files and selectively copying certain of the retrieved multi-volume media indicia, determined by comparing a multi-volume media indicia for a given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding multi-volume media indicia for the given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current, to the output file thereby restoring the virtual storage environment for the user from the plurality of manifest files. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of using the output file in a media import operation for a media library. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the media library is a data storage library comprising a plurality of tape media devices for data storage and at least one tape drive. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two of the manifest files are original manifest files, each of the original manifest files generated from a media export function. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the certain of the retrieved virtual volume indicia which are copied to the output file comprise all the retrieved virtual volume indicia from the original manifest files. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the manifest files is an original manifest file generated from a media export function, and at least one of the manifest files is a cumulative manifest file generated from a previous merge manifest file function. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the certain of the retrieved multi-volume media indicia which are copied to the output file are determined by comparing a multi-volume media indicia for a given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding multi-volume media indicia for the given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein a virtual volume indicia for a given virtual volume retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files is copied to the output file if a corresponding virtual volume indicia for the given virtual volume does not exist on any other of the plurality of manifest files. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein a multi-volume media indicia for a given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files is copied to the output file if a corresponding multi-volume media indicia for the given multi-volume cartridge does not exist on any other of the plurality of manifest files. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the multi-volume media indicia is with respect to a multi-volume media device having a plurality of virtual volumes stored thereon, and the associated virtual volume indicia is with respect to the plurality of virtual volumes. 11. A computer system for merging a plurality of manifest files that are the resultant output from different export operations, each having at least one multi-volume media indicia and associated virtual volume indicia, to restore a virtual storage environment for a user from the plurality of manifest files, the method comprising: means for retrieving each of the associated virtual volume indicia from the plurality of manifest files and selectively copying certain of the retrieved virtual volume indicia, determined by comparing a virtual volume indicia for a given virtual volume retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding virtual volume indicia for the given virtual volume retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current, to an output file; and means for retrieving each of the associated multi-volume media indicia from the plurality of manifest files and selectively copying certain of the retrieved multi-volume media indicia, determined by comparing a multi-volume media indicia for a given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding multi-volume media indicia for the given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current, to the output file thereby restoring the virtual storage environment for the user from the plurality of manifest files. 12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the media library is a data storage library comprising a plurality of tape media devices for data storage and at least one tape drive. 13. The computer system of claim 11, wherein at least two of the manifest files are original manifest files, each of the original manifest files generated from a media export function. 14. The computer system of claim 11, wherein at least one of the manifest files is an original manifest file generated from a media export function, and at least one of the manifest files is a cumulative manifest file generated from a previous merge manifest file function. 15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the certain of the retrieved virtual volume indicia which are copied to the output file comprise all the retrieved virtual volume indicia from the original manifest files. 16. The computer system of claim 11, wherein at least one of the manifest files is an original manifest file generated from a media export function, and at least one of the manifest files is a cumulative manifest file generated from a previous merge manifest file function. 17. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the certain of the retrieved multi-volume media indicia which are copied to the output file are determined by comparing a multi-volume media indicia for a given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding multi-volume media indicia for the given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current. 18. The computer system of claim 11, wherein a virtual volume indicia for a given virtual volume retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files is copied to the output file if a corresponding virtual volume indicia for the given virtual volume does not exist on any other of the plurality of manifest files. 19. The computer system of claim 11, wherein a multi-volume media indicia for a given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files is copied to the output file if a corresponding multi-volume media indicia for the given multi-volume cartridge does not exist on any other of the plurality of manifest files. 20. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the multi-volume media indicia is with respect to a multi-volume media device having a plurality of virtual volumes stored thereon, and the associated virtual volume indicia is with respect to the plurality of virtual volumes. 21. A computer program product on a computer readable storage medium executed by a computer system for merging a plurality of manifest files that are the resultant output from different export operations, each having at least one multi-volume media indicia and associated virtual volume indicia, to restore a virtual storage environment for a user from the plurality of manifest files, the computer program product comprising: instruction means for retrieving each of the associated virtual volume indicia from the plurality of manifest files and selectively copying certain of the retrieved virtual volume indicia, determined by comparing a virtual volume indicia for a given virtual volume retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding virtual volume indicia for the given virtual volume retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current, to an output file; and instruction means for retrieving each of the associated multi-volume media indicia from the plurality of manifest files and selectively copying certain of the retrieved multi-volume media indicia, determined by comparing a multi-volume media indicia for a given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a first of the plurality of manifest files with a corresponding multi-volume media indicia for the given multi-volume cartridge retrieved from a second of the plurality of manifest files to determine which is most current, to the output file to thereby restore the virtual storage environment for the user from the plurality of manifest files. 