A printhead assembly includes a printhead module including two or more printhead integrated circuits and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits. First and second power supplies are provided at first and second ends of the printhead assembly, the second end being opposite to the first end. The printhead assembly further includes a plurality of electrical conductors for providing power to the printhead integrated circuits from the first and second power supplies. The plurality of electrical conductors extend transverse to a media feed path defined through the printhead assembly. The plurality of electrical connectors are arranged as first and second groups of electrical conductors, the first and second groups having a combined lengths at least equal to a width of the media feed path. The first group of electrical conductors is connected to the first power supply and extends from the first end of the printhead assembly to a region intermediate the ends of the printhead assembly. The second group of electrical conductors is connected to the second power supply and extends from the second end to connect to the first group at the region intermediate the first and second ends of the printhead assembly to supply power in parallel from both ends of the printhead assembly. The first group of electrical conductors has a staggered configuration, the staggered configuration adapted to overlap and mate with a complementary staggered configuration of the second group of electrical conductors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: a printhead module including two or more printhead integrated circuits and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the two or more printhead integrated circuits; first and second power supplies, the first power supply being provided at a first end of the printhead assembly, and the second power supply being provided at a second end of the printhead assembly opposite to the first end; and a plurality of electrical conductors for providing power to the at least two printhead integrated circuits from the first and second power supplies, the plurality of electrical conductors extending transverse to a media feed path defined through the printhead assembly, and the plurality of electrical connectors arranged as first and second groups of electrical conductors, wherein the first and second groups of electrical conductors have combined lengths at least equal to a width of the media feed path, the first group of electrical conductors is connected to the first power supply and extends from the first end of the printhead assembly to a region intermediate the ends of the printhead assembly, the second group of electrical conductors is connected to the second power supply and extends from the second end to connect to the first group at the region intermediate the first and second ends of the printhead assembly to supply power in parallel from both ends of the printhead assembly, and the first group of electrical conductors has a staggered configuration, the staggered configuration adapted to overlap and mate with a complementary staggered configuration of the second group of electrical conductors. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a casing in which the printhead module and the plurality of electrical conductors are removably mounted. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, further comprising drive electronics incorporating at least one controller for controlling the printing operation of the two or more printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, wherein power is provided to the drive electronics by the electrical conductors via the electrical connector. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the two or more printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and a fluid distribution member, and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying printing fluid, and a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member for directing the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in of the two or more printhead integrated circuits via the fluid distribution member. 