An automated storage and retrieval system stores containers, typically containing biological or chemical samples, at ultra-low temperatures, i.e., from about -50.degree. C. to about -90.degree. C., preferably about -80.degree. C. under normal operating conditions. Dry gas air flows are used to reduce moisture and the consequential frost within the freezer compartment. A custom insulated door is provided with an access module and a tube picking compartment as well as servo motors for controlling a robot within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment. The robot automatically places sample storage containers in stationary storage racks within the freezer compartment. Magnetic couplings are used to transmit mechanical power from outside of the freezer compartment to the robot inside of the freezer compartment. The robot has a simplified mechanical configuration. The custom door can be readily attached to standard freezer bodies.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated storage and retrieval system for storing sample storage containers at ultra-low temperatures, the system comprising: a freezer body having an ultra-low temperature, insulated compartment that is maintained at an ultra-low temperature from about -50.degree. C. to -90.degree. C. under normal operating conditions when biological or chemical samples are being stored in the ultra-low temperature compartment; at least one storage rack having trays for storing storage containers holding biological or chemical samples; a robot located within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment and also mounted to the frame, the robot having an automatically controlled reach arm for transporting storage sample containers within the freezer compartment; an insulated freezer door that is mounted to the freezer body and closed during normal operation of the system; an access module on the door for introducing a sample storage container into the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment and retrieving containers from the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment through the door when the door is closed, the access module providing a chamber in which moisture is purged before providing access into the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment; robot drive motors mounted to the door outside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment; and a transmission that transmits power from the robot drive motors outside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment to the robot inside the ultra-low temperatures compartment. 2. The system as recited in claim 1 wherein at least some of the sample storage containers in the ultra-low temperatures compartment hold sealed tubes containing biological samples and the system further comprises a tube picking compartment on the door that contains a tube picking mechanism and also has an access door to provide access between the tube picking compartment and the ultra-low temperatures storage compartment within the freezer via the robot, the tube picking chamber being maintained at a freezing temperature above the ultra-low temperature maintained in the freezer storage compartment. 3. The system as recited in claim 2 wherein the temperature in the tube picking chamber is maintained in part by bleeding air from the ultra-low temperatures storage compartment into the tube picking chamber. 4. The system as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmission comprises a first set of magnetic couplings mounted to output shafts from the robot drive motors mounted to the door and being located outside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment, and a second set of complimentary magnetic couplings each mounted to a drive for controlling the motion of the robot inside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment, the complimentary magnetic couplings being located within the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment. 5. The system as recited in claim 1 wherein the transmission comprises mechanical couplings that couple the robot drive motors to the robot drive mechanism inside of the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment, the mechanical couplings passing through an inner surface of the door and coupling to the robot inside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment. 6. The system as recited in claim 1 wherein the freezer body has a continuous inner wall with no penetration by any mechanical component except for the door. 7. The system as recited in claim 1 wherein the door includes a service opening that provides access to the robot drive mechanism within the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment, the service opening being normally closed with an insulated plug after system installation when the system is not being serviced. 8. The system as recited in claim 1 wherein the access module further comprises a dry gas knife which blows a curtain of dry gas over the access opening when the access door into the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment is open. 9. An automated storage and retrieval system for storing sample storage containers at ultra-low temperatures, the system comprising: a freezer having an ultra-low temperatures compartment that is maintained at an ultra-low temperature from about -50.degree. C. to -90.degree. C. under normal operating conditions when biological or chemical samples are being stored within the insulated ultra-low temperatures compartment; a storage rack having trays for storing sample storage containers; a robot located within the insulated ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment having an automatically controlled reach arm for transporting sample storage containers within the freezer compartment, the robot also having mechanical drive components located within the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment; an access module for introducing sample storage containers into the ultra-low temperatures freezer compartment and for retrieving containers from the ultra-low temperatures storage compartment, the access module providing a chamber in which moisture is purged before providing access into and from the ultra-low temperatures storage compartment; robot drive motors mounted outside of the ultra-low temperatures storage compartment; and magnetic couplings for transmitting power from the robot drive motors outside of the ultra-low temperature compartment to the robot drive mechanism inside the ultra-low temperature compartment. 10. The system as recited in claim 9 wherein the robot drive motors are mounted in a fixed location with respect to the freezer under normal operating conditions. 11. The system as recited in claim 9 wherein the magnetic couplings comprise a first set of magnetic couplings mounted to output shafts from the robot drive motors mounted to the door and being located outside of the ultra-low temperature compartment, and a second set of complimentary magnetic couplings each mounted to a drive for controlling the motion of the robot inside of the ultra-low temperature compartment, the complimentary magnetic couplings being located within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment. 12. The system as recited in claim 11 wherein the freezer comprises an insulated freezer body and an insulated freezer door that is mounted to the freezer body and is closed during normal operation of the system, and wherein the robot drive motors and the first set of magnetic couplings are mounted to the insulated freezer door outside of the ultra-low temperature compartment. 13. The system as recited in claim 12 wherein the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment contains no penetration of any components to drive the robot. 14. An automated storage and retrieval system for storing sample storage containers at ultra-low temperatures, the system comprising: a freezer having an insulated, ultra-low temperature compartment that is maintained at an ultra-low temperature from about -50.degree. C. to about -90.degree. C. under normal operating conditions when biological or chemical samples are being stored within the ultra-low temperature compartment; the freezer having an insulated door that closed during the normal operation of the system a storage rack having trays for storing sample storage containers holding biological samples; a robot located within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment, the robot having an automatically controlled reach arm for transporting sample storage containers within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment; and an access module for introducing sample storage containers into the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment and for retrieving containers from the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment, the access module providing a chamber in which moisture is purged before providing access into the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment; and further wherein the robot provides controlled motion for the reach arm along three degrees of freedom comprising substantially vertical movement, substantially horizontal movement and rotational movement, and wherein the robot further comprises a turntable that supports the reach arm and which has a rotational axis parallel to and offset from the vertical lead screw residing along a fixed vertical axis within the ultra-low temperature compartment; robot drive motors mounted to the door outside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment; and a transmission that transmits power from the robot drive motors outside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment to the robot inside the ultra-low temperatures compartment. 15. The system as recited in claim 14 wherein the storage rack comprises a plurality of columns arranged circumferentially about the rotational axis of the turntable except for a portion of the circumference in which the vertical lead screw and a turntable support mechanism reside. 16. The system as recited in claim 14 wherein the storage rack is fixed in a location within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment and does not rotate therein. 17. The system as recited in claim 14 further comprising a frame located within the insulated ultra-low temperature freezer compartment, wherein the robot is mounted to the frame. 18. The system as recited in claim 15 further comprising upper and lower rack support plates which are mounted to the frame into which the storage racks are mounted. 19. The system as recited in claim 14 wherein the robot comprises a drive mechanism for each of the three degrees of motion, and each drive consists of a chain drive and gears which turn to impart motion for the reach arm. 20. The system as recited in claim 14 wherein the turntable is able to rotate in a first direction and a second direction and the system further comprises control means for operating the robot in order to place or retrieve the sample storage container from the tray in the storage rack such that the turntable is rotated in the first direction prior to placing a retrieval in order to minimize positional inaccuracies due to mechanical backlash. 21. An automated storage and retrieval system for storing sample storage containers at ultra-low temperatures, the system comprising: a freezer having an insulated, ultra-low temperature compartment that is maintained at an ultra-low temperature from about -50.degree. C. to about -90.degree. C. under normal operating conditions when biological or chemical samples are being stored within the ultra-low temperature compartment; the freezer having an insulated door that closed during the normal operation of the system a storage rack having trays for storing sample storage containers holding biological samples; a robot located within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment, the robot having an automatically controlled reach arm for transporting sample storage containers within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment; and an access module for introducing sample storage containers into the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment and for retrieving containers from the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment, the access module providing a chamber in which moisture is purged before providing access into the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment; a pressure sensor for monitoring the pressure within the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment; a source of dry gas; and a dry gas inlet port through which dry gas can be supplied from the source of dry gas into the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment; robot drive motors mounted to the door outside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment; and a transmission that transmits power from the robot drive motors outside of the ultra-low temperatures compartment to the robot inside the ultra-low temperatures compartment. 22. The automated storage and retrieval system as recited in claim 21 further comprising an electronically controlled valve for controlling the flow of dry gas through the dry gas inlet into the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment. 23. The automated storage and retrieval system as recited in claim 21 further comprising an outlet port having an electronically controlled valve for allowing air to exit the ultra-low temperature freezer compartment on a controlled basis. 