A medical robotic system has a joint coupled to medical device or a slave manipulator or robotic arm adapted to hold and/or move the medical device for performing a medical procedure, and a control system for controlling movement of the joint according to user manipulation of a master manipulator. The control system includes at least one joint controller having a sliding mode control for reducing stick-slip behavior on its controlled joint during fine motions of the joint. The sliding mode control computes a distance to a sliding surface, computes a reaching law gain, and processes the distance and reaching law gain to generate a sliding mode control action that is in absolute value less that a maximum desired feedback control action. The sliding mode control action is then further processed to generate a feedback torque command for the joint motor.
Claims We claim: 1. A method using sliding mode control for controlling movement of a joint in a medical robotic system in response to user manipulation of a master input device, comprising: computing a distance from a sliding mode surface using the following equation: .sigma.=.lamda.(QC-QL)+(VC-VL), wherein .sigma. represents the distance, .lamda. is a parameter value, (QC-QL) is a position error and (VC-VL) is a velocity error associated with commanded movement of the joint by the master input device; computing a sliding mode control action using a non-linear function of the distance to the sliding mode surface; and causing the joint to be moved at least partially in response to the sliding mode control action. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the computation of the distance from the sliding surface employs a linear function using the position error and the velocity error. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the computation of the distance from the sliding mode surface employs a quadratic function using the position error and the velocity error. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: computing a reaching law gain using the distance, wherein the computation of the sliding mode control action is based at least in part on a product of the reaching law gain and the distance. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the reaching law gain is a function of the absolute value of the distance. 6. The method according to claim 4, further comprising: computing a current state for an integrator using a prior state of the integrator and the distance; limiting the product of the reaching law gain and the distance to be less than a maximum control action; and modifying the current state of the integrator using the limited product so as to limit a sum of the product and the current state of the integrator to be less than the maximum control action, wherein the computation of the sliding mode control action is based at least in part on a sum of the limited product and the modified current state of the integrator. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the modification of the current state of the integrator comprises modifying the current state of the integrator so as to avoid exceeding a specification for a motor used to move the joint. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: filtering the sliding mode control action to avoid abrupt changes when causing the joint to be moved at least partially in response to the sliding mode control action, wherein the joint is caused to be moved at least partially in response to the filtered sliding mode control action. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: dynamically limiting the sliding mode control action using an acceleration factor derived from the commanded movement of the joint, wherein the joint is caused to be moved at least partially in response to the dynamically limited sliding mode control action. 10. A medical robotic system comprising: a joint coupled to a medical device or a robotic arm adapted to move the medical device; and a controller configured to use sliding mode control to control movement of the joint by computing a distance from a sliding mode surface using the following equation: .sigma.=.lamda.(QC-QL)+(VC-VL), wherein .sigma. represents the distance, .lamda. is a parameter value, (QC-QL) is a position error and (VC-VL) is a velocity error associated with commanded movement of the joint; computing a sliding mode control action using a non-linear function of the distance to the sliding mode surface; and causing the joint to be moved at least partially in response to the sliding mode control action. 11. The medical robotic system according to claim 10, wherein the controller is configured to compute a reaching law gain using the computed distance and compute the sliding mode control action based at least in part on a product of the reaching law gain and the computed distance. 12. The medical robotic system according to claim 11, wherein the controller is configured to compute a current state of an integrator using a prior state of the integrator and the computed distance, limit the product of the reaching law gain and the computed distance to be less than a maximum control action, and modify the current state of the integrator using the limited product so as to limit a sum of the product and the current state of the integrator to be less than the maximum control action, wherein the computation of the sliding mode control action is based at least in part on a sum of the limited product and the modified current state of the integrator. 13. The medical robotic system according to claim 10, wherein the controller is configured to filter the sliding mode control action to avoid abrupt changes when causing the joint to be moved. 14. The medical robotic system according to claim 10, wherein the controller is configured to dynamically limit the sliding mode control action using an acceleration factor derived from the commanded movement of the joint and cause the joint to be moved at least partially in response to the dynamically limited sliding mode control action. 