A semiconductor device having a redistribution layer, and methods of forming same, are disclosed. After fabrication of semiconductor die on a wafer, a tape assembly is applied onto a surface of the wafer, in contact with the surfaces of each semiconductor die on the wafer. The tape assembly includes a backgrind tape as a base layer, and a film assembly adhered to the backgrind tape. The film assembly in turn includes an adhesive film on which is deposited a thin layer of conductive material. The redistribution layer pattern is traced into the tape assembly, using for example a laser. Thereafter, the unheated portions of the tape assembly may be removed, leaving the heated redistribution layer pattern on each semiconductor die.
Claims We claim: 1. A portable memory, comprising: a substrate; a semiconductor die having a bond pad at a first location on a surface of the semiconductor die, and a redistribution pattern for electrically coupling the bond pad from the first location to a second location on the semiconductor die, the redistribution pattern including: an adhesive material adhered to a surface of the semiconductor die in a pattern of the redistribution pattern, and conductive material deposited on the adhesive material; and a wire bond for electrically coupling the die bond pad and the substrate, the wire bond coupled to the semiconductor die at the second location. 2. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, further comprising molding compound for encapsulating the semiconductor die and at least a portion of the substrate. 3. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the conductive material is at least one of titanium and aluminum. 4. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the conductive material has a thickness of between 1 and 5 microns on the adhesive material. 5. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the adhesive material is adhered to the surface of the semiconductor die in the pattern of the redistribution pattern by a laser heating a layer of adhesive material in the pattern of the redistribution pattern and removing portions of the layer of adhesive material not heated by the laser. 6. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the semiconductor die is a flash memory die. 7. A portable memory as recited in claim 1, wherein the semiconductor die is a controller die. 8. A portable memory, comprising: a substrate; a semiconductor die affixed to the substrate, the semiconductor die including: an integrated circuit; and a redistribution pattern formed over the integrated circuit, the redistribution pattern including: an adhesive material adhered to a surface of the semiconductor die in a pattern of the redistribution pattern, and conductive material deposited on the adhesive material. 9. A portable memory as recited in claim 8, wherein the conductive material is at least one of titanium and aluminum. 10. A portable memory as recited in claim 8, wherein the conductive material has a thickness of between 1 and 5 microns on the adhesive material. 11. A portable memory as recited in claim 8, wherein the adhesive material is adhered to the surface of the semiconductor die in the pattern of the redistribution pattern by a laser heating the adhesive material in the pattern of the redistribution pattern. 12. A portable memory as recited in claim 8, wherein the integrated circuit is a flash memory circuit. 13. A portable memory as recited in claim 8, wherein the integrated circuit is a controller circuit for a flash memory. 14. A portable memory, comprising: a substrate; a semiconductor die affixed to the substrate, the semiconductor die including: an integrated circuit; a bond pad at a first location coupled to the integrated circuit; and a redistribution pattern formed over the integrated circuit for electrically coupling the bond pad from the first location to a second location on the semiconductor die, the redistribution pattern including: a pattern of adhesive material formed from a layer of adhesive material applied to a surface of the semiconductor die, portions of the layer of adhesive material being removed to leave the pattern of the adhesive material by heating the adhesive material in the pattern of the redistribution pattern and removing portions of the adhesive layer not heated, and conductive material deposited on the pattern of adhesive material. 15. A portable memory as recited in claim 14, wherein the pattern of adhesive material is heated by laser. 16. A portable memory as recited in claim 14, wherein the adhesive material not heated remains a curable b-stage adhesive. 17. A portable memory as recited in claim 14, wherein the heated adhesive material is a cured adhesive. 18. A portable memory as recited in claim 14, wherein the conductive material deposited on the adhesive material is one of aluminum, titanium and alloys of aluminum and titanium. 19. A portable memory as recited in claim 14, wherein the adhesive material is formed as part of a backgrind tape applied to the portable memory during fabrication. 20. A portable memory as recited in claim 14, wherein the heated portions of the adhesive material cure upon heating and remain affixed to the semiconductor due upon removal of the portions of the adhesive material which are not heated. 