A welding torch maintenance center that uses a microcontroller to control the operation, to configure the maintenance center, to repeat the reaming process for excessive spatter deposit inside the nozzle, to spray the nozzle with anti-spatter fluid, to cut the welding wire, to provide a tool center point check signal, and to provide diagnostic information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A maintenance center for cleaning a welding torch nozzle comprising: a chassis; a reaming assembly mounted on the chassis including: a lifting mechanism advancing and retracting a reaming head; a driving motor rotating the reaming head for reaming a nozzle about a rotation axis; a clamp assembly for holding and centering the nozzle, the clamp assembly comprising: a slider and a pair of jaws pivotally coupled to the slider, the slider movable in a direction substantially transverse to the rotation axis, wherein the movement of the slider toward and away from the rotation axis moves the pair of jaws substantially transverse to the rotation axis and the slider movement; a pair of pins movably coupled with the slider, for opening and closing the jaws in conjunction with the movement of the slider; and an actuating mechanism for opening and closing the clamp assembly, the actuating mechanism being coupled to the slider; an electric input; and an electronic operation controller controlling the reaming assembly, the controller having a single-input teaching mode and a reaming mode, wherein during the single-input teaching mode, the controller permits manual sequencing of each step of the reaming mode without activating the driving motor by operating the electric input, and at each step, storing the position of the lifting mechanism, the clamp assembly and the actuating mechanism to be used during the reaming mode. 2. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller comprises a microcontroller. 3. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller is capable of detecting an abnormality and responding thereto by taking a corrective action. 4. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller detects any abnormal decrease of the motor speed during a reaming process and controls the lifting mechanism to initiate the corrective action by retracting and re-advancing the reaming head. 5. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller detects any abnormal lapse of time during advancing and retracting of the reaming head between the selected positions and responds thereto by abandoning or retrying the reaming process. 6. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller has pre-determined or rolling average internal values for operational events for detecting selected abnormalities. 7. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller reduces power consumption by eliminating temporal overlap between an initialization of the motor and an initialization of the lifting mechanism and the actuating mechanism. 8. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller detects polarity of inputs and outputs between the maintenance center and an automation equipment and configures the maintenance center to proper polarity. 9. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electronic operation controller further comprises: signaling means for communicating with an operator or an automation equipment. 10. The maintenance center according to claim 9, wherein the signaling means is wireless. 11. The maintenance center according to claim 9, wherein the signaling means is a serial communication link. 12. The maintenance center according to claim 1, further comprising: a spray mechanism for applying anti-spatter fluid to the torch nozzle. 13. The maintenance center according to claim 12, further comprising means for supplying pre flow of air for removing debris, and a post flow of air for removing over-spray of the anti-spatter fluid. 14. The maintenance center according to claim 12, wherein the anti-spatter fluid is applied by pulsating flow by toggling fluid and air solenoids. 15. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the exhaust from the motor is used to supply cooling air to the torch nozzle. 16. The maintenance center according to claim 12, further comprising: a sensor for monitoring a level of the anti-spatter fluid. 17. The maintenance center according to claim 1, further comprising a wire cutter. 18. The maintenance center according to claim 17, further comprising means for an integrated tool center point check for positive location verification of the end of a wire; wherein the wire touches a vertex and an activation signal is sent with other output signals. 19. The maintenance center according to claim 18, wherein the activation signal is selected from the group consisting of mechanical sensor, capacitive sensor, electromagnetic sensor and optical sensor. 20. The maintenance center according to claim 1, further comprising a proximity sensor for detecting the presence of a torch and for activating the maintenance center. 21. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the lifting mechanism comprises: a lift cylinder for lifting and lowering the reaming head. 22. The maintenance center according to claim 21, wherein the electric input is connected to the electronic operation controller for advancing the lift cylinder without rotating the reaming head. 23. The maintenance center according to claim 22, wherein the lifting mechanism comprises: a solenoid for controlling the lift cylinder, the solenoid being controlled via the electronic operation controller. 24. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the actuating mechanism comprises: a cylinder assembly operably connected to the clamp assembly, the clamp assembly opening or closing in dependence upon movement of the cylinder assembly. 25. The maintenance center according to claim 24, wherein the actuating mechanism comprises: a solenoid for extending the clamping cylinder and slider assembly, the solenoid being controlled via the electronic operation controller. 26. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the actuating mechanism comprises: a first sensor for sensing the movement of the lifting assembly, and wherein the lifting mechanism comprises: a second sensor for monitoring the position of the reaming head, the electronic operation controller controlling the operation of the maintenance center based on at least one of the output of the first sensor, the output of the second sensor. 27. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the operation controller monitors a speed of the reaming head. 28. The maintenance center according to claim 1, wherein the electric input is a push button. 