A radiation apparatus includes a radiation source movable in translational and/or rotational degrees of freedom, and a structure adapted to support a body. The structure is provided with an opening to allow a portion of the body passing through to be exposed to at least a portion of the therapeutic radiation while in use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radiation apparatus, comprising: a radiation source; and a structure providing a housing that encloses at least a portion of the radiation source therein, a portion of the structure being adapted to support a body and provided with an opening to allow a portion of the body passing through into the housing to be exposed to at least a portion of a radiation generated by the radiation source while in use; wherein said radiation source is adapted to be movable in three translational and three rotational degrees of freedom. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the radiation source comprises a radiation source configured to generate therapeutic radiation. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the radiation source comprises an X-ray source configured to generate X-ray beams with energy at megavoltage levels. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the radiation source is configured to be capable of generating therapeutic radiation and diagnostic radiation. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the radiation source comprises an X-ray tube configured to generate X-ray beams with energy from about 30 KV to about 6 MV. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the radiation source is a linear accelerator comprising a radiation generator, a microwave source, and a waveguide, said waveguide being movable relative to the radiation generator and/or microwave source. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient and provided with an opening adapted to allow a breast of the patient passing through. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient and provided with an opening adapted to allow a breast and tissue between the breast and an arm pit passing through. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient in a prone position. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient lying on its side. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient in a forward-leaning position. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient's torso in a substantially upright position. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient in a prone position and the radiation source is rotatable about a horizontal axis in about 180 degrees. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient's torso in a substantially upright position, and the radiation source is rotatable about a vertical axis in about 180 degrees. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient in a substantially prone position and disposed to form a non-zero angle with respect to a horizontal plane. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the portion of the structure comprises two surfaces each being provided with an opening adapted to allow a patient's breast passing through, said two surfaces are angled, each being adapted to support a patient in a substantially prone position. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 which is adapted for intensity-modulated radiation therapy. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 which is adapted for arc therapy. 19. A radiation apparatus, comprising: a radiation source; and a structure providing a housing that encloses at least a portion of the radiation source therein, a portion of the structure being adapted to support a body and provided with an opening to allow a portion of the body passing through into the housing to be exposed to at least a portion of a radiation generated by the radiation source while in use; wherein said radiation source is adapted to be movable at least in a translational direction; and further comprising a second radiation source adapted to generate a radiation for imaging the body portion and an image detector disposed operatively opposite to the second radiation source. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the second radiation source and the image detector are operatively disposed on a same side of the portion of the structure. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the second radiation source and the image detector are operatively disposed on opposite sides of the portion of the structure. 22. A radiation apparatus, comprising: a radiation source; and a structure providing a housing that encloses at least a portion of the radiation source therein, a portion of the structure being adapted to support a body and provided with an opening to allow a portion of the body passing through into the housing to be exposed to at least a portion of a radiation generated by the radiation source while in use; wherein said radiation source is adapted to be movable at least in a translational direction; and wherein the portion of the structure has a curved-surface forming a dome configuration, and said opening is provided near the peak of the dome. 23. An apparatus for radiation treatment of breast cancer, comprising a structure providing a housing, a portion of the structure being adapted to support a patient in a position and provided with an opening to allow a breast of the patient passing through into the housing; and a radiation source configured to generate a therapeutic radiation to the breast, wherein at least a portion of said radiation source is enclosed inside the housing and movable in translational and rotational degrees of freedom, thereby being capable of delivering at least a portion of the therapeutic radiation to at least a portion of the breast at an adjustable distance between the radiation source and the breast, from an adjustable angle to the breast, and/or in an adjustable trajectory. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the radiation source is an X-ray source capable of generating X-ray beams with energy at megavoltage levels. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the radiation source is movable in three translational and three rotational degrees of freedom. 26. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising a second radiation source configured to generate a diagnostic radiation, and an image detector disposed operatively opposite to the second radiation source. 27. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the second radiation source and the image detector are disposed operatively on a same side of the portion of the structure. 28. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein the second radiation source and the image detector are disposed operatively on opposite sides of the portion of the structure. 29. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the radiation source is configured to be capable of generating a diagnostic radiation. 30. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support the patient in a prone position. 31. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support the patient in a forward-leaning position. 32. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support the patient's torso in a substantially upright position. 33. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient in a prone position and disposed to have a non-zero angle with respect to a horizontal plane. 34. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the portion of the structure has a curved-surface forming a dome configuration, and said opening is provided near the peak of the dorm. 35. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the radiation source comprises an X-ray tube configured to generate X-ray beams with energy from 200 to 800 KV. 36. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the radiation source is a linear accelerator comprising a radiation generator, a microwave source, and a waveguide, said waveguide being movable relative to the radiation generator and/or microwave source. 37. A radiation method, comprising the steps of: providing a radiation apparatus including a radiation source and a structure providing a housing that encloses at least a portion of the radiation source therein, a portion of the structure being configured to support a body and provided with an opening allowing a portion of the body to pass through into the housing, and the radiation source being movable in three translational and three rotational degrees of freedom; positioning a body on the portion of the structure allowing a portion of the body passing through into the housing; and delivering a radiation to the portion of the body using the radiation source. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of delivering the radiation comprises modulating the intensity of the radiation. 39. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of delivering the radiation comprises delivering the radiation in an arc geometry. 40. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of delivering comprises delivering a radiation for therapeutic treatment of cancer. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein the radiation has energy at megavoltage levels. 42. The method of claim 40 further comprising the step of delivering a radiation for imaging the body portion, and acquiring a data set using the imaging radiation. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the step of delivering the imaging radiation comprises delivering in a linear geometry. 44. The method of claim 42 wherein the step of delivering the imaging radiation comprises delivering in an arc geometry. 45. A radiation apparatus, comprising: a radiation source capable of generating a radiation for therapeutic treatment; and a structure providing a housing that encloses at least a portion of the radiation source therein, a portion of the structure being adapted to support a body and provided with an opening to allow a portion of the body passing through into the housing to be exposed to at least a portion of the radiation while in use; wherein said radiation source is adapted to be rotatable about a substantially vertical axis; and wherein the radiation source is adapted to be movable in three translational and three rotational degrees of freedom. 46. A radiation apparatus, comprising: a radiation source capable of generating a radiation for therapeutic treatment; and a structure providing a housing that encloses at least a portion of the radiation source therein, a portion of the structure being adapted to support a body and provided with an opening to allow a portion of the body passing through into the housing to be exposed to at least a portion of the radiation while in use; wherein said radiation source is adapted to be rotatable about a substantially vertical axis; and wherein the portion of the structure is adapted to support a patient in a substantially prone position to allow a breast of the patient passing through the opening into the housing, and the radiation source is further adapted to be rotatable about a substantially horizontal axis in about 180 degrees. 