The invention provides a printhead assembly for a printer which prints onto a moving web that follows a path. A full width printhead located across the path of the printer. The printhead is a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web. The printhead is supplied with a number of different inks which are remote from the printhead and which are supplied to the printhead through tubes. In some embodiments the printhead is retained by a rail which is located across the path and along which the printhead slides into and out of a printing position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A removable printhead assembly for a printer which prints onto a moving web, comprising: a full width stationary printhead with an elongate casing; a rail mounted within the printer, the elongate casing and the rail having complementary external features extending longitudinally along each such that inserting the printhead into the printer requires an end of the elongate casing to engage an end of the rail via the complementary external features in order to slide along the rail into operative position within the printer; a number of replaceable ink reservoirs mounted in the printer, the replacable ink reservoirs being configured to supply the printhead with different inks; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; and the printhead being supplied with the different inks through tubes which can be disconnected so the printhead may be removed by sliding longitudinally with respect to the rail until the complementary external features on the rail and the elongate casing disengage. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein: the printhead is secured to the rail by fasteners which allow the printhead to be removed when the fasteners are disengaged. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 1, further comprising: one or more rail microadjusters for accurately adjusting a gap between the printhead and the media onto which it is printing. 4. A removable printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printer is a self contained printer for producing rolls of wallpaper, the printer comprising: a cabinet in which is located a media path which extends from a media cartridge loading area to a winding area; a full width digital color printhead located in the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain a core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 