A robotic wash cell including a six-axis robotic arm and end effector equipped with nozzles that spray unheated, solvent free, pure water at high-pressure to clean or debur objects by maintaining the nozzles in close proximity and substantially normal to each surface being cleaned or edge being deburred. The robotic cell wash is particularly useful for cleaning contaminants such as oil and grease from items having more complex shapes. The six-axis robotic arm positions the nozzles and their sprays substantially normal to each surface being cleaned or deburred. The nozzles produce a multi-zone spray pattern with a continuous effective cleaning zone. A water recycling and pressurizing system collects the used water, separates out the oil and grease contaminants to a level of about 5 ppm, and pressurizes the pure water to about 3,000 psi for washing operations or about 6,000 psi for deburring operations.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of washing an oil contaminant from a surface of an object with solvent-free water, said method of washing a contaminant comprising the steps of: providing a solvent-free water supply, a separator for separating oil from said water supply, a filter for filtering solids from said water supply, a pump for pressurizing said water supply to a high-pressure, and a robotic arm with an end effector and nozzle for directing said water supply in the form of a water spray at the surface of the object; separating oil from said water supply to a purity level of 5 ppm of oil or less; filtering solids from said water supply to a purity level of 30 microns or less; pressurizing said water to a high-pressure in a range of about 1,000 to 5,000 psi; directing said water spray of high-pressure, pure water substantially normal to the surface of the object to substantially completely remove the contaminant form the surface; collecting said water spray in the form of a flow of used water; and recirculating said flow of used water to said water supply for reuse. 2. The method of washing a contaminant of claim 1, and wherein said water spray is at a temperature of 120.degree. F. or less. 3. The method of washing a contaminant of claim 2, and wherein said water supply is kept to a temperature of 120.degree. F. or less. 