Methods and systems for determining a dissolution profile of a sample material, and for solubilization screening of a library defined by an array comprising multiple sample materials are disclosed. The methods and systems are particularly advantageous for sampling and evaluation of very small samples, and can be advantageously applied in connection with evaluation of drug candidates.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for determining a dissolution profile for a sample material, the method comprising dissolving at least a portion of the sample material in a solvent over a period of time to form a solution, the period of time defining a dissolution period, the solution having a concentration of the sample material that varies during the dissolution period, sampling a portion of the solution at least twice during the dissolution period, the solution being sampled at a first time within the dissolution period to obtain a first aliquot of the solution, and at a later second time within the dissolution period to obtain a second aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the first aliquot of the solution to obtain a first sub-aliquot of the solution, determining the concentration of the sample material in the first sub-aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the second aliquot of the solution to obtain a second sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the second sub-aliquot of the solution. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is sampled at least three times during the dissolution period, the method further comprising sampling a portion of the solution at a third time within the dissolution period to obtain a third aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the third aliquot of the solution to obtain a third sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the third sub-aliquot of the solution, wherein the third time is after the second time. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising combining the sample material with the solvent at an initiation time, t.sub.o, to initiate dissolution of the sample material in the solvent, wherein the first time at which the solution is sampled to obtain the first aliquot is within about 1 minute after the initiation time, t.sub.o. the sampling frequencies defined by the difference in time between the first time and the second time, and by the difference in time between the second time and the third time, are each not more than about 1 minute. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the solution is sampled at least six times during the dissolution period, the method further comprising sampling a portion of the solution at a fourth time within the dissolution period to obtain a fourth aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the fourth aliquot of the solution to obtain a fourth sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the fourth sub-aliquot of the solution, sampling a portion of the solution at a fifth time within the dissolution period to obtain a fifth aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the fifth aliquot of the solution to obtain a fifth sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the fifth sub-aliquot of the solution, sampling a portion of the solution at a sixth time within the dissolution period to obtain a sixth aliquot of the solution, subsampling a portion of the sixth aliquot of the solution to obtain a sixth sub-aliquot of the solution, and determining the concentration of the sample material in the sixth sub-aliquot of the solution, wherein the fourth time is after the third time, the fifth time is after the fourth time, and the sixth time is after the fifth time. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample material comprises a drug candidate. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the sample material comprises a drug composition comprising one or more drug candidates and one or more excipients. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample material is a first sample material, the method further comprising repeating each step of the method for at least one other distinct second sample material, and comparing a relative dissolution rate for the first sample material and the second sample material for one or more times during the dissolution period. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating a data set that defines the dissolution profile, the data set being generated by a protocol that comprises defining a first data point of the dissolution profile by associating the determined concentration of sample material in the first aliquot with the first time, and defining a second data point of the dissolution profile by associating the determined concentration of sample material in the second aliquot with the second time. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample material is a one member of an array of sample materials, the method further comprising repeating each step of the method for at least one other member of the array. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the array of sample materials comprises four or more sample materials, the method further comprising for each of the four or more sample materials, combining the sample material with the solvent in an individual, separate container, the container for each of the four or more sample materials being selected from four or more containers that are foimed in or supported on a common substrate. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein for each of the four or more sample materials, at least one of the sample material or the solvent are provided to the container by an automated dispensing probe at the initiation time, t.sub.o, and the solution is sampled at the first time to obtain the first aliquot using an automated sampling probe. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the array of sample materials comprises four or more sample materials, each of the four or more sample materials having a chemical composition that is different from each other. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the array of sample materials comprises two or more sample materials, each of the two or more sample materials having a crystalline structure different from each other. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the array of sample materials comprises two or more sample materials, each of the two or more sample materials having the same chemical composition and having a crystalline structure different from each other. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the array of sample materials comprises four or more sample materials that are substantially the same, the method further comprising combining each of the four or more sample materials with a different dissolution environment. 