An apparatus and method for optimizing a workspace of a radiation treatment delivery system. An optimized treatment plan is generated for delivering a dose of radiation to a volume of interest ("VOI") in a patient using fewer changes to a treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation then available to a radiation treatment delivery system. The optimized treatment plan limits a number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation. Prior to delivery, the optimized treatment plan is analyzed to determine whether a quality of the optimized treatment plan is acceptable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: generating an optimized treatment plan for delivering a dose of radiation to a volume of interest ("VOI") in a patient using fewer changes to a treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation than available to a radiation treatment delivery system, the optimized treatment plan to limit a number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation; analyzing the optimized treatment plan to determine whether a quality of the optimized treatment plan is acceptable; comparing metrics between the optimized treatment plan and a second treatment plan using more changes to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation than the optimized treatment plan; and determining whether to treat the VOI with the optimized treatment plan or the second treatment plan based at least in part on comparing the metrics. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the optimized treatment plan comprises a partial node treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a subset of available spatial nodes for positioning a radiation source of the radiation treatment delivery system, the partial node treatment plan to limit the radiation source to visiting only the subset of the available spatial nodes during delivery of the dose of radiation. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second treatment plan comprises a complete node treatment plan, the method further comprising: generating the complete node treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a complete set of the available spatial nodes so the radiation source visits all of the available spatial nodes during delivery of the dose of radiation; and determining projected time savings of the partial node treatment plan versus the complete node treatment plan. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein comparing the metrics between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan comprises: comparing conformality of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan; comparing homogeneity of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan; and comparing risk of complications to the patient during delivery of the dose of radiation between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining whether to deliver the dose of radiation using the partial node treatment plan or the complete node treatment plan based at least in part on the comparison of the metrics and the projected time savings. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: delivering the dose of radiation to the patient using the partial node treatment plan, if the comparison of the metrics and the projected time savings indicate the partial node treatment plan is advantageous over the complete node treatment plan; else delivering the dose of radiation to the patient using the complete node treatment plan, if the comparison of the metrics and the projected time savings indicate the partial node treatment plan is not advantageous over the complete node treatment plan. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein analyzing the partial node treatment plan to determine whether the quality of the partial node treatment plan is acceptable comprises: determining whether conformality of the dose of radiation delivered to the VOI using the partial node treatment plan will fall within an acceptable conformality deviation; determining whether homogeneity of the dose of radiation delivered to the VOI using the partial node treatment plan will fall within an acceptable homogeneity deviation. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein analyzing the partial node treatment plan to determine whether the quality of the partial node treatment plan is acceptable further comprises determining whether a risk of complications to the patient using to the partial node treatment plan is acceptable. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein determining whether the risk of complications to the patient using the partial node treatment plan is acceptable comprises analyzing proximities between radiation beams delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI pass to critical structures within the patient. 10. The method of claim 2, further comprising: searching a database of node subsets for generating partial node treatment plans, each of the node subsets having a different subset of the available spatial nodes for positioning the radiation source during treatment of the patient; and analyzing the node subsets to determine whether any of the node subsets is a candidate for generating the partial node treatment plan. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the database of node subsets includes at least some of the node subsets indexed to anatomy features. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the database node subsets includes some of the node subsets tailored for generating partial node treatment plans for treating at least one of a spine lesion, a prostate lesion, and a lung lesion. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the node subsets comprise a partial collection of the available spatial nodes and known safe paths linking the partial collection of the available spatial nodes for translating the radiation source along. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter limited by the optimized treatment plan comprises a first number of adjustments, and further comprising: generating a complete treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a second number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation, the second number of adjustments greater than the first number of adjustments; comparing metrics between the optimized treatment plan and the complete treatment plan; and determining projected time savings of the optimized treatment plan versus the complete treatment plan. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the radiation treatment delivery system comprises an image guided radiation treatment delivery system, wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a location of an imaging center of the image guided radiation treatment delivery system, and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer imaging centers to delivery the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a treatment couch position of the radiation treatment delivery system and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer treatment couch positions to delivery the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a source to axis distance of the radiation treatment delivery system and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer changes to the source to axis distance during delivery of the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 18. A machine-accessible medium that provides instructions that, if executed by a machine, will cause the machine to perform operations comprising: generating an optimized treatment plan for delivering a dose of radiation to a volume of interest ("VOI") in a patient using fewer changes to a treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation than available to a radiation treatment delivery system, the optimized treatment plan to limit a number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation; analyzing the optimized treatment plan to determine whether a quality of the optimized treatment plan is acceptable; comparing metrics between the optimized treatment plan and a second treatment plan using more changes to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation than the optimized treatment plan; and determining whether to treat the VOI with the optimized treatment plan or the second treatment plan based at least in part on comparing the metrics. 19. The machine-accessible medium of claim 18, wherein the optimized treatment plan comprises a partial node treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a subset of available spatial nodes for positioning a radiation source of the radiation treatment delivery system, the partial node treatment plan to limit the radiation source to visiting only the subset of the available spatial nodes during delivery of the dose of radiation. 20. The machine-accessible medium of claim 19, wherein the second treatment plan comprises a complete node treatment plan, the machine-accessible medium further providing instructions that, if executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising: generating the complete node treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a complete set of the available spatial nodes so the radiation source visits all of the available spatial nodes during delivery of the dose of radiation; and determining projected time savings of the partial node treatment plan versus the complete node treatment plan. 21. The machine-accessible medium of claim 20, wherein comparing the metrics between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan comprises: comparing conformality of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan; comparing homogeneity of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan; and comparing risk of complications to the patient during delivery of the dose of radiation between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan. 22. The machine-accessible medium of claim 20, further providing instructions that, if executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising: determining whether to deliver the dose of radiation using the partial node treatment plan or the complete node treatment plan based at least in part on the comparison of the metrics and the projected time savings. 23. The machine-accessible medium of claim 19, further providing instructions that, if executed by the machine, will cause the machine to perform further operations, comprising: searching a database of node subsets for generating partial node treatment plans, each of the node subsets having a different subset of the available spatial nodes for positioning the radiation source during treatment of the patient; and analyzing the node subsets to determine whether any of the node subsets is a candidate for generating the partial node treatment plan. 24. The machine-accessible medium of claim 23, wherein the database of node subsets includes at least some of the node subsets indexed to anatomy features. 25. The machine-accessible medium of claim 24, wherein the database node subsets includes some of the node subsets tailored for generating partial node treatment plans for treating at least one of a spine lesion, a prostate lesion, and a lung lesion. 26. The machine-accessible medium of claim 18, wherein the number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter limited by the optimized treatment plan comprises a first number of adjustments, and further comprising: generating a complete treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a second number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation, the second number of adjustments greater than the first number of adjustments; comparing metrics between the optimized treatment plan and the complete treatment plan; and determining projected time savings of the optimized treatment plan versus the complete treatment plan. 27. The machine-accessible medium of claim 26, wherein the radiation treatment delivery system comprises an image guided radiation treatment delivery system, wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a location of an imaging center of the image guided radiation treatment delivery system, and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer imaging centers to delivery the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 28. The machine-accessible medium of claim 26, wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a treatment couch position of the radiation treatment delivery system and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer treatment couch positions to delivery the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 29. The machine-accessible medium of claim 26, wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a source to axis distance of the radiation treatment delivery system and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer changes to the source to axis distance during delivery of the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 30. A system, comprising: a database storing a library of node subsets for generating partial node treatment plans to deliver a dose of radiation to a volume of interest ("VOI") in a patient and a complete node set for generating a complete node treatment plan, each of the node subsets having a different subset of available spatial nodes for positioning a radiation source during delivery of the dose of radiation, the complete node set including more of the available spatial nodes than any of the node subsets; and a processor coupled to the database to access the library of node subsets and to generate the partial node treatment plans and the complete node treatment plan, the processor further coupled to analyze the partial node treatment plans to determine whether a quality of each of the partial node treatment plans is acceptable and to compare metrics between the partial node treatment plans and the complete node treatment plan. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the complete node set is for generating the complete node treatment plan to deliver the dose of radiation to the VOI using the complete node set by translating the radiation source through all of the available spatial nodes during delivery of the dose of radiation, and wherein the processor is further configured to generate the complete node treatment plan. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the processor is further configured to compare metrics between the partial node treatment plans and the complete node treatment plan and to determine projected time savings of each of the partial node treatment plans versus the complete node treatment plan. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the processor is configured to compare conformality of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plans and the complete node treatment plan, to compare homogeneity of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plans and the complete node treatment plan, and to compare risk of complications to the patient during delivery of the dose of radiation between the partial node treatment plans and the complete node treatment plan. 34. The system of claim 30, wherein the database stores at least some of the node sets indexed to treatments of anatomy ailments. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein at least some of the node sets are for generating the partial node treatment plans tailored for treating at least one of spine lesion, a prostate lesion, and a lung lesion. 36. An apparatus, comprising: means for generating an optimized treatment plan for delivering a dose of radiation to a volume of interest ("VOI") in a patient using fewer changes to a treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation than available to a radiation treatment delivery system, the optimized treatment plan to limit a number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation; means for analyzing the optimized treatment plan to determine whether a quality of the optimized treatment plan is acceptable; means for comparing metrics between the optimized treatment plan and a second treatment plan using more changes to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation than the optimized treatment plan; and means for determining whether to treat the VOI with the optimized treatment plan or the second treatment plan based at least in part on comparing the metrics. 37. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein the optimized treatment plan comprises a partial node treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a subset of available spatial nodes for positioning a radiation source of the radiation treatment delivery system, the partial node treatment plan to limit the radiation source to visiting only the subset of the available spatial nodes during delivery of the dose of radiation. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the second treatment plan comprises a complete node treatment plan, the apparatus further comprising: means for generating the complete node treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a complete set of the available spatial nodes so the radiation source visits all of the available spatial nodes during delivery of the dose of radiation; and means for determining projected time savings of the partial node treatment plan versus the complete node treatment plan. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, wherein the means for comparing the metrics between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan includes: means for comparing conformality of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan; means for comparing homogeneity of the dose of radiation to the VOI between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan; and means for comparing risk of complications to the patient during delivery of the dose of radiation between the partial node treatment plan and the complete node treatment plan. 40. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising: means for searching a database of node subsets for generating partial node treatment plans, each of the node subsets having a different subset of the available spatial nodes for positioning the radiation source during treatment of the patient; and means for analyzing the node subsets to determine whether any of the node subsets is a candidate for generating the partial node treatment plan. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the database of node subsets includes at least some of the node subsets indexed to anatomy features. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein the database node subsets includes some of the node subsets tailored for generating partial node treatment plans for treating at least one of a spine lesion, a prostate lesion, and a lung lesion. 43. The apparatus of claim 36 wherein the number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter limited by the optimized treatment plan comprises a first number of adjustments, and further comprising: means for generating a complete treatment plan for delivering the dose of radiation to the VOI using a second number of adjustments to the treatment plan parameter during delivery of the dose of radiation, the second number of adjustments greater than the first number of adjustments; means for comparing metrics between the optimized treatment plan and the complete treatment plan; and means for determining projected time savings of the optimized treatment plan versus the complete treatment plan. 44. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein the radiation treatment delivery system comprises an image guided radiation treatment delivery system, wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a location of an imaging center of the image guided radiation treatment delivery system, and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer imaging centers to delivery the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 45. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a treatment couch position of the radiation treatment delivery system and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer treatment couch positions to delivery the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 46. The apparatus of claim 43 wherein the treatment plan parameter comprises a source to axis distance of the radiation treatment delivery system and wherein the optimized treatment plan uses fewer changes to the source to axis distance during delivery of the dose of radiation than the complete treatment plan. 