This invention relates generally to analysis of gene expression profiles. In particular, the present invention provides a method for a method for analyzing gene expression profiles of a cell, which method comprises: a) providing for isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences from a cell; b) sequentially hybridizing said isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences with a plurality of nucleotide probes; and c) assessing the sequential hybridization between said isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences and said plurality of nucleotide probes to analyze gene expression profiles of said cell. Systems for analyzing gene expression profiles are also provided. Optical devices for detecting hybridization signal are further provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for analyzing gene expression profiles of a cell, which method comprises: a) providing isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences from a cell, wherein the mRNA or cDNA sequences are unknown; b) directly immobilizing the mRNA or cDNA sequences on the surface of a microneedle, whereby the immobilization is via covalent binding, via non-covalent binding, via an interaction with an oligo-dT or oligo-dA that is covalently bound to the microneedle, via an interaction with an oligo-dT or oligo-dA that is covalently bound to the microneedle via a flexible spacer; via a flexible spacer; via crosslinking the immobilized mRNA or cDNA sequences to an oligo-dT or oligo-dA; or via crosslinking the immobilized mRNA or cDNA sequences to the microneedle; c) sequentially hybridizing in two or more cycles of hybridization said isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences with a plurality of nucleotide probes, wherein the sequences of the probes are known and wherein each of the probes is in solution; and d) assessing the sequential hybridization between said isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences and said plurality of nucleotide probes to analyze the expression profile of at least one gene of said cell. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated mRNA target sequences from a cell are provided for and hybridized with a plurality of nucleotide probes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated cDNA target sequences from a cell are provided for and hybridized with a plurality of nucleotide probes. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the isolated cDNA target sequences are complementary to the mRNA target sequences. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the isolated cDNA target sequences have the same polarity as the mRNA target sequences. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a combination of the isolated mRNA and cDNA target sequences from a cell are provided for and hybridized with a plurality of nucleotide probes. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the mRNA target sequences are extracted from a cell with biochemical, cell biological or biophysical means. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the mRNA target sequences are extracted from a cell by a micromanipulator controlled micropipette, adsorption on surface of microwells, extraction with oligo-dT or capillary electrophoresis. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising synthesizing first strand cDNA target sequences complementary to the extracted mRNA target sequences. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising synthesizing second strand cDNA target sequences complementary to the first strand cDNA target sequences. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the mRNA target sequences and the first strand cDNA target sequences are degraded or removed from the second strand cDNA target sequences and the second strand cDNA target sequences alone are used in the hybridization with the nucleotide probes. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein multiple copies of the second strand cDNA target sequences are synthesized. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing uninteresting mRNA or cDNA sequences from the mRNA or cDNA target sequences prior to the hybridization between the mRNA or cDNA target sequences and the nucleotide probes. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the uninterested mRNA or cDNA sequences are removed from the mRNA or cDNA target sequences using immobilized nucleic acid sequences that are complimentary to the uninteresting mRNA or cDNA sequences to remove them from the sample and leaving them behind while the rest of the sample is subsequently transferred away. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing abundant or intermediate abundant class of mRNA or cDNA sequences from low abundant class of mRNA or cDNA target sequences prior to the hybridization between the low abundant class of mRNA or cDNA target sequences and the nucleotide probes. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are immobilized to a surface suitable for hybridization analysis prior to the hybridization between the mRNA or cDNA target sequences and the nucleotide probes. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the microneedle is fabricated from glass, quartz or plastic. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are immobilized to a small area of the surface less than about 10% of the total surface area and the remaining surface area is treated to prevent non-specific attachment of the mRNA or cDNA target sequences. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are immobilized to the surface of the apex of the microneedle and the remaining surface area is treated to prevent non-specific association of the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are immobilized to a surface area ranging from about 1 micron to about 10 millimeters. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are immobilized to the surface via covalent and/or non-covalent binding. 22. The method of claim 16, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are immobilized to the surface via an interaction with oligo-dT or oligo-dA that is covalently bound to the surface. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the oligo-dT or oligo-dA is covalently bound to the surface through a flexible spacer or directly. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising crosslinking the immobilized mRNA or cDNA target sequences to the oligo-dT or oligo-dA. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the crosslinking reaction is activated by photolysis or chemical cleavage. 26. The method of claim 1, further comprising linearly amplifying the mRNA or cDNA target sequences prior to the hybridization between the mRNA or cDNA target sequences and the nucleotide probes. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the cDNA target sequences are linearly amplified via transcription using the cDNA target sequences as the template. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the first strand cDNA target sequences are linearly amplified via synthesizing multiple copies of second strand cDNA target sequences using the first strand cDNA target sequences as the template. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the mRNA or cDNA target sequences are linearly amplified from about 10 to about 100 fold. 30. The method of claim 26, further comprising immobilizing the linearly amplified mRNA or cDNA target sequences to a surface suitable for hybridization analysis prior to the hybridization between the amplified mRNA or cDNA target sequences and the nucleotide probes. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleotide probes have from about 15 to about 100 nucleotides. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleotide probes comprise a detectable label. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the detectable label can be detected by optical, magnetic, mechanic, spectroscopic, photochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, radioactive or enzymatic means. 34. The method of claim 32, wherein the detectable label is a fluorescent or magnetic moiety. 35. The method of claim 32, wherein the nucleotide probes are uniformly labeled. 36. The method of claim 1, which is sensitive enough to detect the presence of a single probe. 37. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleotide probes are specific or degenerate probes. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleotide probes have similar hybridization or dehybridization efficiency. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleotide probes comprise a normalization probe. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein same or different probes are used in different cycles of the sequential hybridization reactions. 41. The method of claim 1, further comprising assessing expression of an abundant gene as an expression level normalization control. 42. The method of claim 1, wherein in at least one of the sequential hybridization reactions, the nucleotide probes are in excess relative to the amount of the mRNA or cDNA target sequences so that the hybridization reaction is a first order reaction or a saturation hybridization. 43. The method of claim 1, wherein in all the sequential hybridization reactions, the nucleotide probes are in excess relative to the amount of the mRNA or cDNA target sequences so that the hybridization reaction is a first order reaction and a saturation hybridization. 44. The method of claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of the nucleotide probes over the mRNA or cDNA target sequences is about at least 1,000:1. 45. The method of claim 1, wherein the hybridization buffer comprises an agent to lower the hybridization temperature, an agent to reduce degradation of the mRNA or cDNA target sequences, or an agent to retain the pH at range from about 6.5 to about 7.5. 46. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing residual detectable signal from a proceeding hybridization reaction before the next hybridization reaction. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein residual fluorescent signal from a proceeding hybridization reaction is removed by photo bleaching before the next hybridization reaction. 48. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the sequential hybridization reactions is conducted at a temperature ranging from about 30.degree. C. to about 60.degree. C. in the presence of a denaturant or a quaternary ammonium salt. 49. The method of claim 1, wherein at least 100 different isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are provided for and hybridized to the nucleotide probes. 50. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences comprise the entire population of cellular mRNA or corresponding cDNA from a cell. 51. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences from a single cell are provided for and hybridized to the nucleotide probes. 52. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences from less than 1,000 cells are provided for and hybridized to the nucleotide probes. 53. The method of claim 1, wherein the same isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are sequentially hybridized to 10 different nucleotide probes. 54. The method of claim 1, wherein the same isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are sequentially hybridized to about 1,500 different nucleotide probes within 24 hours. 55. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are hybridized to multiple probes with different labels for detecting multiple target sequences in one hybridization. 56. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are involved in a biological pathway, encode a group of proteins with identical or similar biological function, expressed in a stage of cell cycle, expressed in a cell type, expressed in a tissue type, expressed in an organ type, expressed in a developmental stage, encode a group of proteins whose expressions and/or activities are altered in a disease or disorder type or stage, or encode a group of proteins whose expressions and/or activities are altered by drug or other treatments. 57. The method of claim 56, wherein the disease or disorder is selected from the group consisting of neoplasm, an immune system disease or disorder, a metabolism disease or disorder, a muscle and bone disease or disorder, a nervous system disease or disorder, a transporter disease or disorder, a signal disease or disorder and an infection. 58. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell is selected from the group consisting of an animal cell, a plant cell, a fungus cell, a bacterium cell, a recombinant cell and a cultured cell. 59. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell is derived from a tissue or biopsy sample. 60. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of probes is not predetermined before the sequential hybridization and the number of probes is adjusted according to the sequential hybridization reaction(s) that has already been performed. 61. The method of claim 1, wherein after a number of sequential hybridization reaction(s) is performed, the mRNA or cDNA target sequences are stored for a time and then re-analyzed with a further hybridization reaction. 62. The method of claim 1, wherein the mRNA or cDNA target sequences are subjected to parallel sequential hybridization reactions. 63. The method of claim 62, wherein in at least one of the parallel sequential hybridization reactions, the isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences are hybridized to multiple probes with different labels for detecting multiple target sequences in one hybridization. 64. The method of claim 1, wherein in at least one of the sequential hybridization reactions, the hybridization condition is individually adjusted. 65. A method for analyzing gene expression profiles of a cell, which method comprises: a) providing isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences from a cell, wherein the mRNA or cDNA sequences are unknown; b) directly immobilizing the mRNA or cDNA sequences on the surface of a microneedle, whereby the immobilization is via covalent binding, via non-covalent binding, via an interaction with an oligo-dT or oligo-dA that is covalently bound to the microneedle, via an interaction with an oligo-dT or oligo-dA that is covalently bound to the microneedle via a flexible spacer; via a flexible spacer; via crosslinking the immobilized mRNA or cDNA sequences to an oligo-dT or oligo-dA; or via crosslinking the immobilized mRNA or cDNA sequences to the microneedle; c) sequentially hybridizing in two or more cycles of hybridization said isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences with a plurality of nucleotide probes, wherein the sequences of the probes are known and wherein each of the probes is in solution; d) dehybridizing between at least two of the cycles; and e) assessing the sequential hybridization between said isolated mRNA or cDNA target sequences and said plurality of nucleotide probes to analyze the expression profile of at least one gene of said cell. 66. The method of claim 65, wherein the dehybridization between at least two of the cycles is effected via elevated temperature or changed solution conditions. 67. The method of claim 1, wherein the microneedle is a microprobe. 