A sample handling system in a multi-channel capillary electrophoresis apparatus is disclosed. The sample handling system includes a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates and a sample loading assembly comprising a plurality of loading wells. At least one of the loading wells includes a capillary fixedly positioned therein. The system further includes a programmable sample transfer device for automatically transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to a loading well. The invention further includes methods for using the sample handling system.
Claims We claim: 1. A sample handling system, comprising: a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates; a capillary; a sample loading assembly comprising a plurality of loading wells, wherein the plurality of loading wells are located in a loading bar which serves as an electrode, each of the loading wells comprising an open upper end and a fluid passage in communication with the loading well below the open upper end, the fluid passage adapted to conduct fluids into and out of the respective loading well and extending from the respective loading well away from the capillary and; a sample transfer device for transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to a loading well; wherein at least one of the loading wells is adapted for fluid communication with said capillary. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the work surface comprises one or more tray recesses for accommodating one or more replaceable sample trays. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample transfer device is adapted for simultaneously transferring at least two samples from respective work surface coordinates to respective loading wells. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the work surface comprises one or more standard wells. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein tbe sample transfer device comprises a multi-axis robot having an arm. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the sample transfer device includes a pipette head located on the arm. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample transfer device is programmed such that a one-to-one correspondence between a work surface coordinate and a loading well is not required. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fluid passages are in fluid communication with a main manifold for supplying fluids and/or vacuum to the loading wells through the fluid passages. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fluid passages have an internal diameter from about 0.005 inches to about 0.05 inches. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said capillary is fixedly positioned in said at least one loading well. 11. The sample handling system of claim 1 wherein said fluid passage is at or near the bottom of said well. 12. A sample handling system, comprising: a work surface for supporting a plurality of samples located at a plurality of work surface coordinates; a sample loading assembly comprising a loading bar, the loading bar comprising a plurality of loading wells for receiving fluids therein; a monolithic substrate comprising a plurality of electrophoresis capillaries; wherein the loading bar is adapted to serve as an electrode and each of the loading wells comprises an open upper end and a fluid passage in communication with the loading well below the open upper end, the fluid passage adapted to conduct fluids into and out of the respective loading well, each loading well is in fluid communication with a respective one of the capillaries, and each fluid passaae extends from the respective joading well away from the respective one of the capillaries; and a sample transfer device for transferring a sample from a work surface coordinate to at least one of the loading wells. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein a one-to-one correspondence between a work sarface coordinate and a loading well is not required. 14. A sample handling system, comprising: a loading bar including a plurality of loading wells for receiving fluids therein, and a common passage formed in the bar; wherein said loading bar is adapted to serve as an electrode surrounding samples in each of the plurality of loading wells and each of the loading wells comprises an open upper end and a fluid passage in communication with the loading well below the open upper end, the fluid passage adapted to conduct fluids into and out of the respective loading well, and the fluid passage is in fluid communication with the common passage. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising a voltage source adapted for electrical communication with said loading bar. 16. The system of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of capillaries, each adapted for fluid communication wit a respective one of said wells. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said capillaries are formed in a monolithic substrate. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein said loading bar is comprised of a metallic material. 19. A sample handling system, comprising: an electrode and a plurality of wells defined by and formed in said electrode and a common passage formed in said electrode, wherein said wells are adapted for receiving fluids therein, each of the wells comprises an open upper end and a fluid passage in communication with the well below the open upper end, each fluid passage is adapted to conduct fluids into and out of the respective well and each fluid nassage is in fluid communication with the common passage. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a plurality of capillaries, each adapted for fluid communication with a respective one of said wells. 21. The system of claim 19, further comprising a voltage source adapted for electrical communication with said electrode. 22. The sample handling system of claim 19 wherein said fluid passage is at or near the bottom of said well. 