The present invention is directed to a powder paint delivery method and apparatus employing a pressurized reservoir pump that supplies a controlled stream of densely fluidized or dense phase powder paint to the applicator though a powder delivery conduit. The powder flow rate is a function of the pressure in the reservoir and the flow resistance from the reservoir to the applicator, and is therefore very stable over time, and simple to control. The powder flow can be controlled by holding the resistance of the powder flow path constant and varying the pressure in the reservoir, or by holding the reservoir pressure constant and varying the resistance of the powder flow path.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for transporting paint powder to a paint applicator comprising: providing a volume of paint powder housed in a receptacle; maintaining the receptacle at an elevated pressure; fluidizing the paint powder within the receptacle; transporting the paint powder in a dense phase from the receptacle to the applicator through a delivery conduit, said conduit having a powder pick-up end positioned within the volume of fluidized paint powder in the receptacle and a delivery end in communication with the applicator; and regulating the pressure in the receptacle by the controlled introduction into the receptacle of both fluidizing gas and a control gas independent of fluidizing gas to thereby achieve a predetermined paint powder flow rate to the applicator. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the mass flow rate of the paint powder transported from the receptacle is determined by measuring the weight loss of the receptacle and the pressure within the reservoir is adjusted in response to the weight loss measurement. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein a plurality of delivery conduits are employed to transport paint powder from the receptacle to a plurality of applicators. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the flow rate of the paint powder to each of the applicators is controlled by maintaining a generally constant pressure within the receptacle and independently adjusting the paint powder flow path resistance through each of the delivery conduits. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the paint powder flow rate to the applicator is maintained within a range of two percent of the predetermined flow rate. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the pressure within the receptacle is elevated to at least 5 psi. 7. A powder pump apparatus for transporting powder to a powder coating applicator, comprising; a vessel suitable for pressurization and having an air-permeable wall that defines a powder reservoir in the vessel above the wall and a fluidizing air plenum below the wall; a first controlled source of pressurized air in communication with the plenum to both fluidize the powder contained in the reservoir and pressurize the reservoir; a second controlled source of pressurized air in communication with the reservoir for pressurizing the reservoir; said vessel also having an inlet for loading powder into the reservoir and a restricted outlet to allow air to be exhausted from the reservoir while providing sufficient airflow resistance for pressurization of the reservoir; and a powder delivery conduit having a powder pickup end positioned within the fluidized powder in the reservoir and a delivery end in communication with the applicator. 8. The powder pump apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a pressure sensor having an output signal indicative of pressure within the reservoir, and a weight sensor having an output signal indicative of the weight of the receptacle; said first and/or second controlled source of pressurized air being controlled in response to said pressure output signal and said weight output signal. 9. The powder pump apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a shutoff valve associated with the delivery conduit. 10. The powder pump apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a third controlled source of pressurized air in communication with the delivery conduit between the reservoir and applicator, said third controlled source of pressurized air being operable to reduce or prevent the flow of powder to the receptacle. 