An autonomous robot, that is for example, suitable for operations such as vacuuming and surface cleaning includes a payload configured for vacuum cleaning, a drive system including a steering system, a navigation system, and a control system for integrating operations of the aforementioned systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: a drive system; and a controller in communication with said drive system, said controller including a processor programmed to: provide at least one scanning pattern for a first portion of said area; analyze said first portion for an opening to a second portion of said area; and signal said drive system to move along a path at least proximate the periphery of said first portion to and through said opening to said second portion of said area. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said processor is additionally programmed to provide at least one scanning pattern for said second portion of said area. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said at least one scanning pattern for said second portion of said area is substantially free of repetition. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said processor is additionally programmed to: indicate the end of said at least one scanning pattern for said first portion of said area when lateral advancement of said apparatus in accordance with said at least one scanning pattern is no longer possible. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said at least one scanning pattern for said second portion of said area is substantially free of repetition. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said movement at least proximate to said periphery of said first portion includes a contour movement. 7.An apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: a drive system; and, a controller in communication with said drive system, said controller including a processor programmed to: provide at least one scanning pattern for a portion of said area form a first point; signal said drive system to move along a path at least proximate the periphery of the scanned portion to a second point, said second point at a different location than said first point; and, provide at least one scanning pattern for a portion of said area from said second point. 8. An apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: a drive system; and a controller in communication with said drive system, said controller including a processor programmed to: provide at least one scanning pattern for a portion of said area from a first point; signal said drive system to move along a path at least proximate the periphery of the scanned portion to a second point, said second point at a different location than said first point; and provide at least one scanning pattern for a portion of said area from said second point. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said processor is programmed such that said path includes a predetermined length. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said processor is additionally programmed to: dynamically determine the length of said path. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said length of said path (D) determined dynamically is in accordance with the formula: D=[K.sub.1d][.SIGMA.L.sub.i/max{L.sub.i}]+[K.sub.2max{L.sub.i}] where, L.sub.i is the series L.sub.1 to L.sub.n, and L.sub.1 to L.sub.n are the lengths of each straight line portion of the scanned pattern; K.sub.1, and K.sub.2 can be, for example, K.sub.1=0.8, K.sub.2=1, where L.sub.i are measured in meters; and d is the diameter of the apparatus, for example apparatus, expressed in meters. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, additionally comprising: a vacuum cleaning system in operative communication with said controller. 13. A method for area coverage by an autonomous machine comprising: scanning a first portion of said area in accordance with at least one scanning pattern; analyzing said forst portion for an opening to a second portion of said area; and moving along a path at least proximate to the periphery of said first portion to and through said opening to said second portion of said area. 14. The method of claim 13, additionally comprising: scanning said second portion of said area in accordance with at least one scanning pattern. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said at least one scanning pattern for said second portion of said area is executed substantially free of repetition. 16. The method of claim 14, additionally comprising: vacuum cleaninig during at least a portion of said scanning said first portion of said area, and during at least a portion of said scanning said second portion of said area. 17. The method of claim 13, additionally comprising: indicating the end of said at least one scanning pattern for said first portion of said area when lateral advancement of said apparatus in accordance with said at least one scanning pattern is no longer possible. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein said at least one scanning pattern for said first portion of said area is executed substantially free of repetition. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein said movement at least proximate to said periphery of said first portion includes a contour movement. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein said area includes at least one room. 21. The method of claim 13, wherein said area includes a plurality of rooms. 22. A method for area coverage by an autonomous machine comprising: scanning a portion of said area in accordance with at least one scanning pattern, from a first point; moving along a path at least proximate the periphery of said scanned portion to a second point, said second point at a different location than said first point; and scanning a portion of said area in accordance with at least one scanning pattern, from said second point. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said moving along said path includes moving a predetermined length. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein said moving along said path includes determining the length of said path dynamically. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein said determining the length of said path (D) dynamically is in accordance with the formula: D=[K.sub.1d][.SIGMA.L.sub.i/max{L.sub.i}]+[K.sub.2max{L.sub.i}] where, L.sub.i is the series L.sub.1 to L.sub.n, and L.sub.1 to L.sub.n are the lengths of each straight line portion of the scanned pattern; K.sub.1 and K.sub.2 can be, for example, K.sub.1=0.8, K.sub.2=1, where L.sub.i are measured in meters; and d is the diameter of the apparatus, for example apparatus, expressed in meters. 26. The method of claim 22, additionally comprising: vacuum cleaning during at least a portion of said scanning. 27. The method of claim 22, wherein said area includes at least one room. 28. The method of claim 22, wherein said area includes a plurality of rooms. 29. An apparatus for autonomous operation over an area comprising: a drive system; and, a controller in communication with said drive system, said controller including a processor programmed to: provide at least one scanning pattern for a first portion of said area, said scanning pattern substantially free of repetition; analyze said first portion for an opening to a second portion of said area; and, signal said drive system to move along a path at least proximate the periphery of said first portion to and through said opening to said second portion of said area. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said processor is additionally programmed to: provide at least one scanning pattern for said second portion of said area. 31. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said processor is additionally programmed to indicate the end of said at least one scanning pattern for said first portion of said area when lateral advancement of said apparatus in accordance with said at least one scanning pattern for said first portion of said area is no longer possible. 32. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein said movement at least proximate to said periphery of said first portion includes a contour movement. 33. The apparatus of claim 29, additionally comprising: a vacuum cleaning system in operative communication with said controller. 34. A method for coverage of an area by an autonomous machine comprising: scanning a first portion of said area in accordance with at least one scanning pattern, said at least one scannning pattern substantially free of repetition; analyzing said first portion for an opening to a second portion of said area; and, moving along a path at least proximate to the periphery of said first portion to and through said opening to said second portion of said area. 35. The method of claim 34, additionally comprising: scanning said second portion of said area in accordance with at least one scanning pattern. 36. The method of claim 35, additionally comprising: vacuum cleaning during at least a portion of said scanning said first portion of said area, and during at least a portion of said scanning said second portion of said area. 37. The method of claim 35, wherein said area includes at least one room. 38. The method of claim 35, wherein said area includes a plurality of rooms. 39. The method of claim 34, additionally comprising: indicating the end of said at least one scanning pattern for said first portion of said area when lateral advancement of said apparatus in accordance with said at least one scanning pattern is no longer possible. 40. The method of claim 34, wherein said movement at least proximate to said periphery of said first portion includes a contour movement. 