Method and apparatus for testing a milk for mastitis wherein the milk sample is admixed with a detergent under condition that increase the viscosity of the milk sample; the increased viscosity mixture is subjected to a further procedure for further increasing its viscosity; and the further increased viscosity mixture is then tested for an attribute of somatic cells, such as DNA. This determination is then used to establish if the cow from whom the milk came has mastitis.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of testing a milk flow for mastitis, the method including (i) diverting a sample flow from the milk flow, (ii) providing an inflow of an anionic detergent and an inflow of the milk sample in predetermined proportions into a dwell zone, and an outflow of a detergent/milk admixture as a gelling and/or gelled product, (iii) feeding the outflow admixture product from the dwell zone to a viscosity testing zone, and (iv) testing, in the viscosity testing zone, the outflow admixture product for viscosity and generating an output signal indicative of the viscosity, and (v) if necessary, clearing the viscosity testing zone, or the viscosity testing zone and the dwell zone of the admixture without feedback into the milk flow from which the sample flow was diverted. 2. A method of determining if there is a somatic cell count change between milkings in the milk of an animal by applying the method as claimed in claim 1 to separate milkings, and comparing data resulting from the testings to determine any somatic cell count change. 3. A method of as claimed in claim 1 wherein the gelling is dependent upon at least part of the DNA of somatic cells. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the milk flow is from a single animal and an identifier of that animal and an indicator of viscosity and thus of the somatic cell count is coupled for comparative purposes. 5. A method of claim 1 wherein the inflows are not mixed prior to the dwell zone. 6. A method of claim 1 wherein the milk flow is the milk from at least one teat of a known animal, such animal being identified by an output signal from an animal identifying sensor. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein a receiver receives the output signal indicative of viscosity and associates such output signal with the animal by reference to either an input signal or a the animal identifying the sensor output signal. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the data received by the receiver is stored for comparative purposes with subsequent data received at subsequent milkings from the same animal. 9. A method as claimed in claims 1 wherein the sample flow is drawn off a milk flow during milking, such draw off being substantially identical for each milking having regard to (i) commencement of milking generated milk flow, (ii) duration or volume of draw off, and/or (iii) elapsed milk flow. 10. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the testing in the viscosity testing zone of the outflow admixture product for viscosity is whilst the partly gelled product is stationary. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein a rolling ball test for viscosity is utilised which generates the output signal indicative of such viscosity, such output signal being an elapsed time or a function of an elapsed time. 12. A method of claim 11 wherein there is a vacuum recocking of the ball for a subsequent viscosity test along with the emptying of the already tested admixture product from the viscosity testing zone or the viscosity testing zone and the dwell zone. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the dwell zone and the viscosity testing zone are a common chamber of apparatus into which the inflows are provided. 14. A method of testing a milk flow for mastitis as claimed claim 1 wherein there is also provided an animal identifier input or signal capable of identifying the animal to data acquisition, analysis and storage means. 15. A method of testing a milk flow for mastitis, as claimed in any one of claim 1 wherein there is also provided an outflow of the at least partially gelled mixture of the dwell zone to and/or through and/or using a viscosity testing zone and (immediately or subsequently) generating an output signal to the data acquisition, analysis and storage means indicative of the viscosity of a predetermined part of the mixture that has been subject to a predetermined gel forming dwell time post mixing (whether prior to, during or post the inflow(s)). 16. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the predetermined proportions of anionic detergent and milk inflow are in the volume ratios of 5:1 to 1:5. 17. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the predetermined proportions are in the range of from 2:1 to 1:2 inclusive. 18. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the predetermined proportions are substantially 1:1. 19. A method of claim 1 wherein the anionic detergent is a Gardinol Type Detergent as defined in the Merck Index. 20. A method as claimed in claim 19 wherein the anionic detergent is an aqueous solution of about 2% weight by volume sodium laurel sulphate. 21. A method as claimed in claim 1 used for testing an animal for mastitis by on-line testing of milk from such an individual animal as it is being milked. 22. Apparatus in or associated with a milk flow path for milk of an individual animal from at least one cup of a milking claw to an accumulation reservoir or conduit for such flow, the apparatus including: (i) means defining a liquid chamber having an ability to receive two inlet feeds, (ii) one inlet feed to be an inflow of a sample flow of milk from the milk line, and (iii) the other inlet feed to be an inflow of an anionic detergent of a kind that will cause a viscosity increase as a result of at least partial gelling of the resultant milk/detergent fluid, and (iv) means to provide a measure of and to generate a data output indicative of the viscosity of at least part of the resultant milk/detergent fluid calibratable to the somatic cell count of the milk inflow, (v) and means to clear the milk/detergent fluid from the apparatus without contamination of milk in the milk line in order to allow a subsequent milk flow sample to be likewise tested. 23. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 wherein the apparatus is such that an identical testing regime is followed for each sample taken from the milk flow such that for an individual animal or as between individual animals, or both, there is a comparative basis. 24. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 wherein there is provided data acquisition, analysis and storage means and there is provided means to provide an animal identifier input or signal capable of identifying an animal being milked to the data acquisition, analysis and storage means, and the means able to generate an output signal to the data acquisition, analysis and storage means indicative of the viscosity of the milk sample gel in the apparatus for tying to the animal identified. 25. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 wherein the apparatus includes a rolling ball type viscosity tester capable of generating an output signal reliant on a elapsed time or a function of elapsed time. 26. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 to test milk of an animal being milked for somatic cells and thus testing the animal being milked for mastitis. 27. An apparatus as claimed in claim 22 used for determining whether or not there is a somatic cell count change between milkings in milk of an animal by comparing data resulting from separate milkings to determine any somatic cell count change. 28. Apparatus of claim 27 wherein there is means that uses an appropriate surfactant to generate a gel from the milk sample, means to test the gel thus generated for viscosity or some function of viscosity and means to cause or allow the gel to clear from the apparatus. 29. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 also including (i) means defining a second chamber to receive at least part of the resultant milk/detergent fluid from the first chamber, (ii) means to provide a measure indicative of viscosity or a function of viscosity of the resultant milk/detergent fluid in the second chamber calibratable to the somatic cell count of the sample flow of milk, and (iii) means to generate a data output indicative of the measure. 30. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the means to provide a second chamber is or includes the barrel of a rolling ball viscometer. 31. Apparatus as claimed in claim 30 wherein the means to provide a measure indicative of viscosity are spaced sensors of a rolling ball viscometer. 32. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein the means defining a first chamber and the means defining a second chamber are interconnected such that a chamber is defined into which there is adapted to be a greater infeed of fluids than outfeed therefrom thereby in use ensuring, for at least part of the milk/detergent fluid, a reproducible gelling time at which the fluid is measured by the means to provide a measure. 33. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 having means adapted in use to reproducibly control the two inlet feeds. 34. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22 wherein there is provision in the means to provide a measure whereby the milk/detergent fluid can be cleared from the apparatus without contamination of milk in the milk line in order to allow a subsequent milk flow sample to be likewise tested. 