The present invention includes methods of determining the volume of liquid dispensed by a dispenser. Initially, a refractive index analysis is preformed on a first liquid that has been dispensed from the dispenser in question. From the refractive index analysis, information is obtained about the volume of first liquid dispensed. The invention also includes methods for verifying the volumetric accuracy of a dispenser. The methods include dispensing a first liquid having a known refractive index into a vessel having a second liquid with a known volume and a known refractive index to form a test mixture. The refractive index of the test mixture is measured and then correlated with the refractive index of the first liquid to obtain information about the volume of first liquid dispensed. The dispensed volume is then compared to the theoretical volume of liquid dispensed by the dispenser.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining the volume of liquid dispensed by a dispenser, comprising: providing a dispenser having a first liquid with a first refractive index; dispensing the first liquid from the dispenser into a vessel having a second liquid with a known volume and a second refractive index to form a test mixture including the first and second liquid; measuring a third refractive index of the test mixture; correlating the third refractive index of the test mixture with the first refractive index of the first liquid; and obtaining information about the volume of the first liquid dispensed based on the correlating step. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first liquid is a solution of a solute in water. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the solute is CaCl.sub.2. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the first liquid is a 40% by weight solution of CaCl.sub.2 in water. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the refractive index of the first liquid is 1.44200. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the second liquid is between about 0.50000 and about 10.00000 ml of water. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the second liquid is deionized water. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the first liquid, the second liquid or both comprise a colorant. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the correlating step comprises curve fitting the refractive index of the test mixture to determine the volume dispensed by the dispenser. 10. A method for verifying the volumetric accuracy of a dispencer, comprising: combining a liquid including a 40% wt of CaCl.sub.2 having a known refractive index with a second liquid consisting essential of water with a known volume and a known refractive index to form a test mixture; measuring a refractive index of the test mixture; and calculating the volume of the first liquid that was combined with the second liquid (V.sub.d) using: .times..times..function. ##EQU00002## where V.sub.2 is the volume of the second liquid P.sub.2 is density of the second liquid, P.sub.1 is the density of the first liquid, X.sub.1 is the concentration by weight of the solute in the first liquid and X is the concentration that results from the curve fitting of the RI of the test mixture. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising comparing the volume of the first liquid with the theoretical volume of liquid dispensed by the dispenser. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising adjusting the dispenser. 13. The method of claim 10 whereinthe first liquid comprises a 40 wt % solution of CaCI.sub.2 in water. 