Methods for performing surface lapping using a robotic system are provided. In one embodiment, a method for lapping a surface includes providing a lapping assembly having a first base coupled to a second base by a flexible coupling member, and a lapping medium coupled to the second base, the flexible coupling member being configured to flex to allow the lapping medium to at least partially conform to the surface. The lapping medium is moveably applied to the surface using the lapping assembly. In another embodiment, the method further includes pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the lapping medium to the surface using a pneumatic device operatively coupled to the second base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for lapping a surface, the method comprising: moveably applying an abrasive member to the surface; pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the abrasive member to the surface; and applying an abrasive slurry to the surface at least proximate the abrasive member. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein moveably applying an abrasive member to the surface includes flexing a flexible coupling member such that the abrasive member at least partially conforms to the surface. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein moveably applying an abrasive member to the surface includes flexing a semi-rigid coupling member such that the abrasive member at least partially conforms to the surface. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein moveably applying an abrasive member to the surface includes flexing a flexible, substantially cylindrical coupling member disposed between a support member and the abrasive member. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein moveably applying an abrasive member to the surface includes rotatably applying an abrasive member to the surface using a robotic arm. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the abrasive member to the surface includes controlling a pressure within a cylinder operatively coupled between a support member and the abrasive member. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the abrasive member to the surface includes controlling a pressure using an air logic controller. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the abrasive member to the surface includes maintaining a constant pressure applied by the abrasive member. 9. A method for lapping a surface, comprising: providing a lapping assembly having a first base coupled to a robotic arm, and a second base moveably coupled to the first base and to a lapping medium; moveably applying the lapping medium to the surface using the lapping assembly; and pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the lapping medium to the surface using a pneumatic device operatively coupled to the second base, wherein moveably applying the lapping medium to the surface includes flexing a flexible, substantially cylindrical coupling member disposed between a support member and the lapping medium. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein moveably applying the lapping medium to the surface includes flexing a flexible coupling member such that the lapping medium at least partially conforms to the surface. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein moveably applying the lapping medium to the surface includes flexing a semi-rigid coupling member such that the lapping medium at least partially conforms to the surface. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the lapping medium to the surface includes maintaining a constant pressure applied by the lapping medium. 13. A method for lapping a surface, comprising: providing a lapping assembly having a first base coupled to a second base by a flexible coupling member, and a lapping medium coupled to the second base, the flexible coupling member being configured to flex to allow the lapping medium to at least partially conform to the surface; and moveably applying the lapping medium to the surface using the lapping assembly, wherein providing a lapping assembly includes providing a lapping assembly having a flexible coupling member that is further configured such that an axis of rotation of the lapping medium is non-normal to the surface during lapping. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein moveably applying the lapping medium to the surface includes flexing the flexible coupling member such that the lapping medium at least partially conforms to the surface. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the lapping medium to the surface using a pneumatic device operatively coupled to the second base. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the lapping medium to the surface includes maintaining a constant pressure applied by the lapping medium. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the lapping medium to the surface includes using a pneumatic device operatively coupled to the second base. 18. A method for lapping a surface, the method comprising: moveably applying an abrasive member to the surface; and pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the abrasive member to the surface, wherein moveably applying an abrasive member to the surface includes flexing a flexible, substantially cylindrical coupling member disposed between a support member and the abrasive member. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the abrasive member to the surface includes controlling a pressure within a cylinder operatively coupled between a support member and the abrasive member. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein pneumatically controlling a pressure applied by the abrasive member to the surface includes controlling a pressure using an air logic controller. 