A wireless substrate-like sensor is provided to facilitate alignment and calibration of semiconductor processing systems. The wireless substrate-like sensor includes an optical image acquisition system that acquires one or more images of targets placed within the semiconductor processing system. Analysis of images of the targets obtained by the wireless substrate-like sensor provides position and/or orientation information in at least three degrees of freedom. An additional target is affixed to a known location within the semiconductor processing system such that imaging the reference position with the wireless substrate-like sensor allows the measurement and compensation for pick-up errors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wireless substrate-like sensor assembly used to perform calibration of a semiconductor processing system, the sensor assembly comprising: a wireless substrate-like sensor including: a processor; an internal power source; and an image acquisition system; a holster adapted to mechanically couple to the sensor to store the sensor when not in use; an automatic calibration target including: at least four target indicia, wherein the at least four target indicia are related to one another through a known relationship; and wherein the automatic calibration target is mountable to at least one station of the system; and wherein the sensor is adapted to provide location information relative to at least one automatic calibration target in at least two degrees of freedom. 2. The assembly of claim 1 additionally including an illumination source. 3. The system of claim 1 additionally including a wireless communication device. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the processor is a digital signal processor. 5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor has a diameter of about 300 mm. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor has a diameter of about 200 mm. 7. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor has a diameter of about 150 mm. 8. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor has a diameter of about 450 mm. 9. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor is adapted to provide location information relative to at least one automatic calibration target in at least three degrees of freedom. 10. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor is adapted to provide location information relative to at least one automatic calibration target in at least six degrees of freedom. 11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor provides the location information to a technician. 12. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor provides the location information to a system controller. 13. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor provides the location information to a robot controller. 14. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the sensor is constructed from silicon. 15. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the holster charges the internal power source of the sensor when they are coupled together. 16. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the holster communicates with the sensor. 17. The assembly of claim 1, wherein each automatic calibration target includes a background with a high contrast to the indicia. 18. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the sensor records values for later transmission to a host and wherein, the sensor uses its image acquisition system to recognize when it is no longer moving and then records the time and the value of the offset. 19. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the sensor recognizes characters. 20. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the sensor recognizes bar codes. 