An apparatus and method for forming and joining a first sheet material (A) located in a nest (30) to a second sheet material (B) positioned on top of the first sheet material. The apparatus includes a positional pressure roller tool or positional pressure variance unit (50) for performing the forming and joining operations. The PPVU (50) may include both a main roller (58) and a touch-up roller (60). The PPVU (50) is operatively associated with a programmable positioning apparatus in the form of a robotic arm (52) and a machine cell (10) whereby the position of the robotic arm (52) relative to the nest (30) dictates the applied pressure at the interface between the roller (72) and the nest (30).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for forming and joining a first sheet material to a second sheet material, the apparatus comprising: a nest for holding the first sheet material; a robotic arm operatively associated with said nest; a faceplate rotatably attached to said robotic arm, said faceplate having a long axis; and a positional pressure roller tool for forming and joining the first sheet material to the second sheet material, said positional pressure roller tool including a cylinder rigidly attached to said faceplate, a reciprocating hub including a piston end and a roller tool end, said reciprocating hub being reciprocatingly mounted in said cylinder, and a main roller tool, said main roller tool being mounted to said roller tool end of said reciprocating hub, said reciprocating hub having a long axis, said long axis of said reciprocating hub and said long axis of said faceplate being in axial alignment, said roller tool including a roller, said roller being positioned off-axis with respect to said long axis of said reciprocating hub. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a computer having a roller tool-driving program, said computer being operatively associated with said robotic arm and said positional pressure roller tool. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a biasing element for biasing said positional pressure roller tool against the second sheet material and the first sheet material during the forming and joining of the first sheet material to the second sheet material. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said biasing element is a spring. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said biasing element comprises a gas-charged cylinder. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said positional pressure roller tool includes a main roller and a touch-up roller. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said main roller and said touch-up roller share a common hub, said common hub being rotatably attached to said robotic arm. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said nest includes a peripheral surface upon which the first sheet material and the second sheet material are placed for forming and joining by said positional pressure roller tool. 