A teleoperator system with telepresence is shown which includes right and left hand controllers (72R and 72L) for control of right and left manipulators (24R and 24L) through use of a servomechanism that includes computer (42). Cameras (46R and 46L) view workspace (30) from different angles for production of stereoscopic signal outputs at lines (48R and 48L). In response to the camera outputs a 3-dimensional top-to-bottom inverted image (30I) is produced which, is reflected by mirror (66) toward the eyes of operator (18). A virtual image (30V) is produced adjacent control arms (76R and 76L) which is viewed by operator (18) looking in the direction of the control arms. Use of the teleoperator system for surgical procedures also is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical apparatus for performing a procedure on a tissue in a body of a patient through a minimally invasive aperture, the minimally invasive surgical manipulator comprising: a minimally invasive surgical end effector configured for manipulating the tissue within the patient body; an elongate shaft having a distal end insertable into the body of the patient through the aperture, the elongate shaft having a longitudinal axis; a wrist member coupling the end effector to the distal end of the shaft, the wrist member having a longitudinal axis; the wrist member and end effector rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the shaft; the wrist member and end effector pivotable about a wrist axis crossing the shaft; and the end effector rotatable about a longitudinal axis of the wrist member. 2. The minimally invasive surgical apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wrist member pivots at a wrist joint coupling the wrist member to the shaft, the wrist joint defining the wrist axis, and the wrist axis being perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the shaft and to the longitudinal axis of the wrist member. 3. The minimally invasive surgical apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises first and second jaw members, the first jaw member pivotable about a jaw pivot axis crossing the longitudinal axis of the wrist member so as to open and close the jaws. 4. The minimally invasive surgical apparatus of claim 3, wherein the jaw pivot axis is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the wrist member. 5. The minimally invasive surgical apparatus of claim 1, wherein rotating of the wrist member about the longitudinal axis of the wrist member changes an orientation of the end effector when the wrist member is roughly perpendicular to the shaft. 6. The minimally invasive surgical apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a robotic linkage supporting a proximal end of the shaft, the robotic linkage having a plurality of robotic motors coupled to the end effector so as to effect said rotations and pivoting. 7. The minimally invasive surgical apparatus of claim 6, wherein the motors are actuated in response to manual movement of an input device according to a master-slave by robotic controller. 8. A minimally invasive robotic surgical apparatus comprising: an elongate shaft having a proximal end, a distal end configured for insertion through a minimally invasive surgical aperture, and a longitudinal axis therebetween; a robotic linkage supporting the proximal end of the shaft; a minimally invasive surgical end effector configured for insertion through the aperture; a wrist member coupling the end effector to the distal end of the shaft, the wrist member having a longitudinal axis; and the end effector movable, when inserted into the body of a patient through the aperture so as to manipulate the tissue, by: rotation of the shaft relative to the linkage about a longitudinal axis of the shaft; rotation of the end effector about the axis of a wrist member; and pivoting of the wrist member so as to vary an angle between the longitudinal axis of the wrist member and the longitudinal axis of the shaft. 9. A surgical apparatus comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a distal end and a shaft longitudinal axis; a wrist member comprising: a first portion attached to the distal end of the shaft; a second portion; a wrist roll axis extending from the first portion to the second portion, and a wrist pivot axis perpendicular to the wrist roll axis; said surgical apparatus further comprising an end effector attached to the second portion of the wrist member; wherein: the wrist member is rotatable about the shaft longitudinal axis; and the wrist member is pivotable about the wrist pivot axis. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the wrist pivot axis runs through the first portion of the wrist member. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the wrist member is sized for insertion into a human body cavity through a minimally invasive aperture. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the end effector is rotatable about the wrist roll axis. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the end effector comprises: first and second jaw members; and a jaw pivot axis running through the second portion of the wrist, the jaw pivot axis being perpendicular to the wrist roll axis; wherein the first jaw member is pivotable about the jaw pivot axis. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the end effector is rotatable about the wrist roll axis. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the jaw pivot axis is perpendicular to the wrist pivot axis. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first and second jaw members are pivotable in opposing directions about the jaw pivot axis to open and close the jaw members. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first and second jaw members are further pivotable in the same direction about the jaw pivot axis. 18. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the shaft is axially movable along the shaft longitudinal axis. 19. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a robotic linkage supporting a proximal end of the shaft, the robotic linkage having a plurality of robotic motors coupled to the end effector so as to effect said rotations and pivoting. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising hand-operated means at a remote operator control station. 21. A surgical manipulator comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a distal end and a shaft longitudinal axis; a wrist member comprising: a first portion attached to the distal end of the shaft; a second portion; a wrist roll axis extending from the first portion to the second portion, and a wrist pivot axis perpendicular to the wrist roll axis; the surgical manipulator further comprising an end effector attached to the second portion of the wrist member; wherein; the shaft is rotatable about the shaft longitudinal axis; and the wrist member is pivotable about the wrist pivot axis. 22. The manipulator of claim 21, wherein the wrist pivot axis runs through the first portion of the wrist member. 23. The manipulator of claim 22, wherein the wrist member is sized for insertion into a human body cavity through a minimally invasive aperture. 24. The manipulator of claim 23, wherein the end effector is rotatable about the wrist roll axis. 25. The manipulator of claim 23, wherein the end effector comprises: first and second jaw members; and a jaw pivot axis running through the second portion of the wrist, the jaw pivot axis being perpendicular to the wrist roll axis; wherein the first jaw member is pivotable about the jaw pivot axis. 26. The manipulator of claim 25, wherein the jaw pivot axis is perpendicular to the wrist pivot axis. 27. A surgical manipulator comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a shaft proximal end, a shaft distal end, and a shaft longitudinal axis extending between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; a wrist member comprising a wrist proximal portion, a wrist distal portion, and a wrist longitudinal axis extending between said wrist proximal portion and said wrist distal portion, said wrist proximal portion being coupled to said shaft distal end; and an end effector coupled to said wrist distal portion; wherein: said shaft is, in response to movement of said shaft proximal end, pivotally movable in at least two degrees of freedom about a pivot point, said pivot point disposed on said shaft between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; said wrist member has a wrist pitch axis perpendicular to said shaft longitudinal axis, and said wrist member is pivotable relative to said shaft about said wrist pitch axis; and said end effector is rotatable about said wrist longitudinal axis. 28. The manipulator of claim 27, wherein said wrist member and said end effector are sized for insertion through an insertion point during minimally invasive surgery. 29. The manipulator of claim 28, wherein said pivot point is located at said insertion point. 30. The manipulator of claim 27, wherein said end effector comprises a pair of jaws. 31. The manipulator of claim 27, wherein said shaft is axially movable along said shaft longitudinal axis. 32. The manipulator of claim 27, wherein said shaft is rotatable about said shaft longitudinal axis. 33. The manipulator of claim 32, wherein said shaft is axially movable along said shaft longitudinal axis. 34. A robotic system comprising: a first surgical manipulator comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a shaft proximal end, a shaft distal end, and a shaft longitudinal axis extending between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; a wrist member comprising a wrist proximal portion, a wrist distal portion, and a wrist longitudinal axis extending between said wrist proximal portion and said wrist distal portion, said wrist proximal portion being coupled to said shaft distal end; and an end effector coupled to said wrist distal portion; wherein: said shaft is, in response to movement of said shaft proximal end, pivotally movable in at least two degrees of freedom about a pivot point, said pivot point disposed on said shaft between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; said wrist member has a wrist pitch axis perpendicular to said shaft longitudinal axis, and said wrist member is pivotable relative to said shaft about said wrist pitch axis; and said end effector is rotatable about said wrist longitudinal axis; and said robotic system further comprising a first input controller, wherein said first surgical manipulator is movable in response to movement of said first input controller. 35. The system of claim 34, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force and torque feedback from said surgical manipulator to said first input controller. 36. The system of claim 34, wherein movement of said surgical manipulator is related to movement of said first input controller by a scale factor. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the first input controller comprises master grippers, and wherein said end effector comprises grippers that can open or close in response to said master grippers being opened or closed. 38. The system of claim 37, wherein said grippers can apply a force related by a scale factor to a force applied to said master grippers. 39. The system of claim 37, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 40. The system of claim 39, further comprising servomechanisms for providing torque feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 41. The system of claim 37, further comprising a second surgical manipulator comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a shaft proximal end, a shaft distal end, and a shaft longitudinal axis extending between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; a wrist member comprising a wrist proximal portion, a wrist distal portion, and a wrist longitudinal axis extending between said wrist proximal portion and said wrist distal portion, said wrist proximal portion being coupled to said shaft distal end; and an end effector coupled to said wrist distal portion; wherein; said shaft is, in response to movement of said shaft proximal end, pivotally movable in at least two degrees of freedom about a pivot point, said pivot point disposed on said shaft between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; said wrist member has a wrist pitch axis perpendicular to said shaft longitudinal axis, and said wrist member is pivotable relative to said shaft about said wrist pitch axis; and said end effector is rotatable about said wrist longitudinal axis; and said robotic system further comprising a second input controller, wherein said second surgical manipulator is movable in response to movement of said second input controller. 42. The surgical robotic system of claim 41, wherein a surgeon can control the first input controller through the surgeon's left hand; and the surgeon can control the second input controller through the surgeon's right hand. 43. The system of claim 34, further comprising a laparoscope for viewing organs within a human body cavity. 44. A robotic system comprising: a first surgical manipulator comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a shaft proximal end, a shaft distal end, and a shaft longitudinal axis extending between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; a wrist member comprising a wrist proximal portion, a wrist distal portion, and a wrist longitudinal axis extending between said wrist proximal portion and said wrist distal portion, said wrist proximal portion being coupled to said shaft distal end; and an end effector coupled to said wrist distal portion; wherein: said shaft is, in response to movement of said shaft proximal end, pivotally movable in at least two degrees of freedom about a pivot point, said pivot point disposed on said shaft between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; said shaft is axially movable along said shaft longitudinal axis; said shaft is rotatable about said shaft longitudinal axis; said wrist member has a wrist pitch axis perpendicular to said shaft longitudinal axis, and said wrist member is pivotable relative to said shaft about said wrist pitch axis; said end effector is rotatable about said wrist longitudinal axis; and said robotic system comprising a first input controller, wherein said first surgical manipulator is movable in response to movement of said first input controller. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein movement of said surgical manipulator is related to movement of said input controller by a scale factor. 46. The system of claim 45, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force and torque feedback from said surgical manipulator to said first input controller. 47. The system of claim 45, wherein said input controller comprises master grippers, end said end effector comprises grippers that can open or close in response to said master grippers being opened or closed. 48. The system of claim 47, wherein said grippers can apply a force related by a scale factor to a force applied to said master grippers. 49. The system of claim 47, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 50. The system of claim 49, further comprising servomechanisms for providing torque feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 51. The system of claim 44, further comprising a laparoscope for viewing organs within a human body cavity. 52. The robotic system of claim 44, further comprising a second surgical manipulator comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a shaft proximal end, a shaft distal end, and a shaft longitudinal axis extending between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; a wrist member comprising a wrist proximal portion, a wrist distal portion, and a wrist longitudinal axis extending between said wrist proximal portion and said wrist distal portion, said wrist proximal portion being coupled to said shaft distal end; and an end effector coupled to said wrist distal portion; wherein: said shaft is, in response to movement of said shaft proximal end, pivotally movable in at least two degrees of freedom about a pivot point, said pivot point disposed on said shaft between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; said shaft is axially movable along said shaft longitudinal axis; said shaft is rotatable about said shaft longitudinal axis; said wrist member has a wrist pitch axis perpendicular to said shaft longitudinal axis, and said wrist member is pivotable relative to said shaft about said wrist pitch axis; and said end effector is rotatable about said wrist longitudinal axis; and said robotic system further comprising a second input controller, wherein said second surgical manipulator is movable in response to movement of said second input controller. 53. The surgical robotic system of claim 52, further comprising a laparoscope for viewing organs within a human body cavity. 54. The surgical robotic system of claim 52, wherein a surgeon can control said first input controller through the surgeon's left hand, and the surgeon can control said second input controller through the surgeon's right hand. 55. A surgical manipulator comprising: an elongate shaft comprising a shaft proximal end, a shaft distal end, and a shaft longitudinal axis extending between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; a wrist member comprising a wrist proximal portion, a wrist distal portion, and a wrist longitudinal axis extending between said wrist proximal portion and said wrist distal portion, said wrist proximal portion being coupled to said shaft distal end; and an end effector coupled to said wrist distal portion; wherein: said shaft is, in response to movement of said shaft proximal end, pivotally rotatable about a pivot point, said pivot point lying on said shaft between said shaft proximal end and said shaft distal end; said wrist member has a wrist pitch axis perpendicular to said shaft longitudinal axis, and said wrist member is pivotable relative to said shaft about said wrist pitch axis; and said end effector is rotatable about said wrist longitudinal axis. 56. A method for minimally invasive surgery comprising: forming a minimally invasive incision in the body of a patient; inserting an end effector and a distal end of an elongate shaft into said minimally invasive incision, a wrist member coupling the end effector to the distal end of the shaft; pivoting said shaft about said minimally invasive incision with at least two degrees of freedom by moving a proximal end of said shaft; pivoting the wrist member about a wrist pitch axis perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the shaft; rotating the end effector about a wrist longitudinal axis perpendicular to said wrist pitch axis. 57. The method of claim 56, further comprising rotating said shaft about said longitudinal axis of the shaft. 58. The method of claim 57, further comprising moving said shaft along said longitudinal axis of the shaft. 59. The method of claim 57 further comprising: moving said shaft, wrist member, and end effector in response to moving an input controller. 60. The method of claim 59, wherein moving said input controller moves said shaft by a scale factor. 61. The method of claim 60, further comprising providing force and torque feedback from said shaft to said input controller. 62. The method of claim 61, further comprising providing force and torque feedback from said wrist member to said input controller. 63. The method of claim 59, wherein moving said input controller moves said wrist member by a scale factor. 64. The method of claim 59, further comprising opening or closing grippers on said end effector in response to opening and closing master grippers on said input controller. 65. The method of claim 64, further comprising applying a force to said grippers related by a scale factor to a force applied to said master grippers. 66. The method of claim 64, further comprising providing force feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 67. The method of claim 64, further comprising providing torque feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 68. The method of claim 56, further comprising viewing organs within a human body cavity using a laparoscope. 69. The method of claim 56, further comprising manipulating tissue with said end effector. 70. The method of claim 69, wherein the end effector comprises two jaw elements, and wherein said manipulating tissue with said end effector comprises gripping a tissue with said jaw elements. 71. A method for minimally invasive surgery comprising: forming a first minimally invasive incision in the body of a patient; inserting a first end effector and a distal end of a first elongate shaft into said first minimally invasive incision, a first wrist member coupling the first end effector to the distal end of the first shaft; pivoting said first shaft about said first minimally invasive incision with at least two degrees of freedom by moving a proximal end of said first shaft; pivoting the first wrist member about a first wrist pitch axis perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the first shaft; rotating the first end effector about a first wrist longitudinal axis perpendicular to said first wrist pitch axis; forming a second minimally invasive incision in the body of a patient; inserting a second end effector and a distal end of a second elongate shaft into said second minimally invasive incision, a second wrist member coupling the second end effector to the distal end of the second shaft; pivoting said second shaft about said second minimally invasive incision with at least two degrees of freedom by moving a proximal end of said second shaft; pivoting the second wrist member about a second wrist pitch axis perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the second shaft; rotating the second end effector about a second wrist longitudinal axis perpendicular to said second wrist pitch axis. 72. The method of claim 71, further comprising moving said first shaft in response to moving a first input controller using a left hand, and moving said second shaft in response to moving a second input controller using a right hand. 73. The method of claim 72, further comprising moving said first end effector in response to moving master grippers on said first input controller. 74. A surgical manipulator comprising: an input device provided with an end section movement unit and an end effector control unit; a control arm having one end operatively coupled to the input device; a wrist connected to the other end of the control arm, wherein said wrist is connected to an end effector, and supports said end effector in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a computer that operatively couples the input device to the control arm, the computer configured to transmit a movement by the end section movement unit to the wrist to pivot the wrist, and to transmit a command provided by the end effector control unit to operate the end effector; wherein the wrist includes a wrist link capable of pivoting about a first axis perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the control arm, and an outer link capable of turning about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis; the end effector has a longitudinal axis substantially parallel to the second axis; the end section movement unit includes a joint capable of pivoting about a pitch axis perpendicular tote longitudinal axis of the control arm and a joint capable of rotating about a roll axis perpendicular to the pitch axis; and the end effector control unit is provided for gripping by fingers. 75. The manipulator of claim 74, wherein movement of said wrist is related to movement of said end section movement unit by a scale factor. 76. The manipulator of claim 74, wherein movement of said end effector is related to movement of said end effector control unit by a scale factor. 77. The manipulator of claim 76, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force and torque feedback from said wrist to said end section movement unit. 78. The manipulator of claim 74, further comprising master grippers coupled to said en section movement unit, wherein the end effector comprises grippers that can open or close in response to said master grippers being opened or closed. 79. The manipulator of claim 78, wherein said grippers can apply a force related by a scale factor to a force applied to said master grippers. 80. The manipulator of claim 78, further comprising servomechanisms for providing force feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 81. The manipulator of claim 80, further comprising servomechanisms for providing torque feedback from said grippers to said master grippers. 82. The manipulator of claim 74, further comprising a laparoscope for viewing organs within a human body cavity, said laparascope and said surgical manipulator being carried by a fixed rail forming part of a surgical table. 83. A surgical robotic system comprising: a first surgical manipulator comprising: an input device provided with an end section movement unit and an end effector control unit; a control arm having one end operatively coupled to the input device; a wrist connected to the other end of the control arm, wherein said wrist is connected to an end effector, and supports said end effector in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a computer that operatively couples the input device to the control arm, the computer configured to transmit a movement by the end section movement unit to the wrist to pivot the wrist, and to transmit a command provided by the end effector control unit to operate the end effector; wherein the wrist includes a wrist link capable of pivoting about a first axis perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the control arm, and an outer link capable of turning about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis; the end effector has a longitudinal axis substantially parallel to the second axis; the end section movement unit includes a joint capable of pivoting about a pitch axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of tire control arm and a joint capable of rotating about a roll axis perpendicular to the pitch axis; and the end effector control unit is provided for gripping by fingers extending substantially in parallel to the roll axis; and said surgical robotic system comprising a second surgical manipulator comprising: an input device provide with an end section movement unit and an end effector control unit; a control arm having one end operatively coupled to the input device; a wrist connected to the other end of the control arm, wherein said wrist is connected to an end effector, and supports said end effector in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a computer that operatively couples the input device to the control arm, the computer configured to transmit a movement by the end section movement unit to the wrist to pivot the wrist, and to transmit a command provided by the end effector control unit to operate the end effector; wherein the wrist include s a wrist link capable of pivoting about a first axis perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the control arm, and an outer link capable of turning about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis; the end effector has a longitudinal axis substantially parallel to the second axis; the end section movement unit includes a joint capable of pivoting about a pitch axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the control arm and a joint capable of rotating about a roll axis perpendicular to the pitch axis; and the end effector control unit is provided for gripping by fingers. 84. The surgical robotic system of claim 83, further comprising a laparoscope for viewing a axis within a human body cavity. 85. The surgical robotic system of claim 83, wherein a surgeon can control the input device of the first manipulator through the surgeon's left hand; and the surgeon can control the input device of the second manipulator through the surgeon's right hand. 