A conductive plastic tip rack for pipette tips includes a conductive outer shell formed around a support insert. The support insert serves as the skeleton for the tip rack, providing structural support to make the tip rack strong and sturdy. The conductive outer shell includes sidewalls depending from the sides of a face having a plurality of tip seats for receiving a plurality of pipette tips. The conductive outer shell is formed of an electrically conductive plastic. The conductive plastic rack is capable of sufficiently conducting or dissipating electricity such that static electricity existing on a pipette tip placed within the tip rack will flow out of the pipette tip and through the tip rack. By removing the static electricity from the pipette tips placed in the tip rack, static electricity is prevented from disturbing the tips seated in the tip rack.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of discharging static electricity from a plurality of pipette tips held by a plurality of pipettes, the method comprising: a. providing a tip rack comprised of an electrically conductive plastic material, the tip rack including a face with a plurality of seats formed thereon for holding pipette tips; b. removing the plurality of pipette tips from the plurality of pipettes; and c. seating the plurality of pipette tips in the plurality of seats such that the static electricity deposited on the pipette tips is discharged through the tip rack when the pipette tips are contacted with the tip rack. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the static electricity is discharged through the tip rack by conducting the static electricity to ground when the pipette tips are contacted with the tip rack. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the static electricity is discharged through the tip rack by dissipating the static electricity on the surface of the tip rack when the pipette tips are contacted with the tip rack. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the tip rack includes a one-piece conductive outer shell comprising the face, and the tip rack further includes a support insert connected to the conductive outer shell such that the support insert is covered by the conductive outer shell. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of removing the plurality of pipette tips from the plurality of pipettes results in the generation of additional static electricity on the pipette tips that is discharged through the tip rack when the pipette tips are contacted with the tip rack. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein static electricity discharged through the tip rack is directed to ground. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein static electricity discharged through the tip rack is dissipated on the electrically conductive plastic material. 