A robotic bending apparatus for bending archwires and other types of elongate, bendable medical devices into a desired configuration includes a first gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool. The first gripping tool can be either fixed with respect to a base or table for the robot or positioned at the end of robot am. The moveable gripping tool is mounted to the end of a moveable robot arm having a proximal portion also mounted to the base. The robot preferably comprises a six axis bending robot, in which the distal end of the moveable arm can move relative to the fixed gripping tool about three translational axes and three rotational axes. The gripping tools preferably incorporate force sensors which are used to determine overbends needed to get the desired final shape of the archwire. The robot may also include a resistive heating system in which current flows through the wire while the wire is held in a bent condition to heat the wire and thereby retain the bent shape of the wire. A magazine for holding a plurality of straight archwires needing to be bent and a conveyor system for receiving the wires after the bending process is complete are also described. The robot bending system is able to form archwires with any required second and third order bends quickly and with high precision. As such, it is highly suitable for use in a precision appliance-manufacturing center manufacturing a large number of archwires (or other medical devices or appliances) for a distributed base of clinics.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer controlled system for deforming an orthodontic archwire, comprising: A first gripping tool adapted to releasably secure an orthodontic archwire; An orthodontic archwire bending robot having a moveable arm; A second gripping tool adapted to releasably secure an orthodontic archwire, the second gripping tool attached to the moveable arm; and A control system adapted to control the operation of the orthodontic archwire bending robot to move the second gripping tool relative to the first gripping tool to custom deform an orthodontic archwire based on an orthodontic treatment plan having at least one selectively placed virtual orthodontic bracket on a patient's teeth, wherein the patient's teeth are represented in the form of digital data. 2. The computer controlled system of claim 1, wherein the digital data of the patient's teeth is a three dimensional model of the patient's teeth. 3. The computer controlled system of claim 1, wherein the digital data of the patient's teeth is obtained by scanning the patient's teeth. 4. The computer controlled system of claim 1, wherein the first gripping tool and the second gripping tool are sized such tat a bend may be formed in an orthodontic archwire releasably secured between the first gripping tool and the second gripping tool wherein the bend in the orthodontic archwire is positioned between two virtual orthodontic brackets. 5. The computer controlled system of claim 4, wherein the two virtual orthodontic brackets are positioned on adjacent teeth in the digital data of a the patient's teeth. 6. The computer controlled system of claim 1, wherein the control system controls the fixed gripping tool to release and grip an orthodontic archwire. 7. The computer controlled system of claim 1, further comprising a bulk supply of uncut orthodontic archwire available to the orthodontic archwire bending robot. 8. The computer controlled system of claim 1, further comprising a magazine of pre-cut orthodontic archwire available to the orthodontic archwire bending robot. 9. A system for generating patient specific complex bends in orthodontic archwire, comprising: A orthodontic archwire bending robot having a moveable arm; A first gripping tool adapted to releasably secure an orthodontic archwire positioned separate from and in fixed relation to the orthodontic wire bending robot; A second gripping tool attached to the distal end of the moveable arm that is adapted to releasably secure an orthodontic archwire; An computer readable input file comprising information regarding the location of one or more complex bends to be formed in an orthodontic archwire in accordance with a patient specific orthodontic treatment plan; and A control system adapted to control the archwire bending robot arm, the first gripping tool and the second gripping tool attached to the distal end of the robot arm according to the computer readable input file. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the location of at least one of the one or more complex bends to be formed in an orthodontic archwire is positioned between two virtual orthodontic brackets. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the two virtual orthodontic brackets are adjacent one another. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein at least one of the one or more complex bends is determined based on a planned position of a patient specific orthodontic therapy. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein at least one of the one or more complex bends is determined based on an overbend position of a patient specific orthodontic therapy. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the computer readable input file is automatically generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 15. The system of claim 9, wherein the computer readable input file is manually generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 16. A computer controlled robot for generating patient specific orthodontic archwire having complex bends, comprising: A orthodontic archwire bending robot having a moveable arm; A first gripping tool having opposing fingers of a first width, the first gripping tool positioned separate from and in fixed relation to the orthodontic archwire bending robot; A second gripping tool attached to the moveable arm, the second gripping tool having opposing fingers of a second width; and A control system adapted to control the orthodontic archwire bending robot arm, the first gripping tool and the second gripping tool; wherein the first width or the second width are sized to be less than a straight wire section of an orthodontic archwire being bent by the orthodontic archwire bending robot. 17. The computer controlled robot of claim 16, wherein, after bending, the archwire comprises alternating sequence of straight segments and bent segments. 18. The computer controlled robot of claim 17, wherein, as a result of bending, the archwire acquires a non-planar shape. 19. The computer controlled robot of claim 16, wherein the archwire is bent per the instructions from a computer readable input file automatically generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 20. The computer controlled robot of claim 16, wherein the archwire is bent per the instructions from a computer readable input file manually generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 21. A computer controlled robot for generating patient specific complex bends in orthodontic archwire, comprising: A orthodontic archwire bending robot having a moveable arm; A first gripping tool adapted to releasably secure an orthodontic archwire positioned separate from and in fixed relation to the orthodontic archwire bending robot, the first gripping tool having a width; A second gripping tool attached to The distal end of the moveable arm that is adapted to releasably secure an orthodontic archwire, The second gripping tool having a width; A computer readable input file comprising the location of at least one complex bend to be formed in an orthodontic archwire in accordance with a patient specific orthodontic treatment plan, the at least one complex bend related to the slot in a virtual orthodontic bracket by an antitangential value and a tangential value; A robot computer control system adapted to control the archwire bending robot arm, the first gripping tool and the second gripping tool according to the computer readable input file; and Wherein the width of the first gripping tool is less than the sum of the antitangential value and a tangential value. 22. The computer controlled robot of claim 21, wherein the width of the second gripping tool is less than the sum of the antitangential value and a tangential value. 23. The computer controlled robot of claim 21, wherein the computer readable input file is automatically generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 24. The computer controlled robot of claim 21, wherein the computer readable input file is manually generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 25. A method of forming a complex bend in a patient specific orthodontic archwire, comprising: Generating a computer readable robot input file based on a patient specific orthodontic therapy using in-vivo scanning data of the patient's teeth including the position of one or more virtual orthodontic brackets; Holding the patient specific orthodontic archiwire at a first position with a first gripper under the control of a computer; Holding the patient specific orthodontic archwire at a second position with a second gripper under the control of a computer; and Moving the second gripper relative to the first gripper in a three dimensional pathway to produce a complex bend between the first position and the second position using the computer readable robot input file. 26. The method of claim 25, farther bending the archwire by moving the second gripper to a new location in three-dimensional space relative to the fixed gripper. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the new location in three-dimensional space for the moveable gripper is determined by the computer readable robot input file. 28. The method of claim 25, wherein the computer readable robot input file is automatically generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 29. The method of claim 25, wherein the computer readable robot input file is manually generated in accordance with the patient specific orthodontic treatment plan. 