A robotic arm assembly (101) is provided which comprises a hub (103), a first arm segment (105) which is attached to the hub, and a second arm segment (107) which is attached to the first arm segment such that said second arm segment can rotate at least partially about its longitudinal axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic assembly, comprising: a pin; a first arm segment; a second arm segment which rotates about its longitudinal axis and about the longitudinal axis of said pin; at least one fastener adapted to loosely fasten said first arm segment to said second arm segment, thereby restricting the angle of rotation of the second arm segment about said pin; and an end effector; wherein said fastener extends through an aperture provided in said first segment. 2. The robotic assembly of claim 1, further comprising a second fastener adapted to loosely fasten said first arm segment to said second arm segment. 3. The robotic assembly of claim 1, comprising first and second arms, and wherein said first arm comprises said first and second arm segments. 4. The robotic assembly of claim 3, further comprising a hub having first and second rotatable rings mounted thereon, and wherein said first and second arms are attached to said first and second rings, respectively. 5. The robotic assembly of claim 1, wherein said second segment is connected to said end effector. 6. The robotic arm assembly of claim 1, wherein said second segment is attached to said end effector by way of a wrist assembly. 7. The robotic arm assembly of claim 1, wherein said aperture is sufficiently larger than said fastener so as to permit said second segment to rotate about its longitudinal axis with respect to said first segment. 8. The robotic arm assembly of claim 1, wherein said aperture is sufficiently larger than said fastener so as to permit said second segment to rotate about its longitudinal axis with respect to said first segment within the range of .+-.2.degree. with respect to said first segment. 9. The robotic arm assembly of claim 1, wherein said end effector comprises a planar blade. 10. A robotic assembly, comprising: a hub having first and second rotatable rings mounted thereon; and first and second arms attached to said first and second rings, respectively; wherein each of said first and second arms comprises a first component which is pivotally connected to a second component, wherein said first component comprises first and second segments, and wherein said second segment is attached to said first segment such that said second segment can rotate at least partially about its longitudinal axis. 11. The robotic assembly of claim 10, further comprising an end effector, and wherein said first and second arms are attached to said end effector. 12. The robotic assembly of claim 10, wherein said first component of said first arm is attached to said first ring, and wherein said first component of said second arm is attached to said second ring. 13. The robotic assembly of claim 11, wherein said second component of each of said first and second arms is connected to said end effector. 14. The robotic arm assembly of claim 11, wherein said second component of each of said first and second arms is attached to said end effector by way of a wrist assembly. 15. The robotic arm assembly of claim 10, further comprising a fastener which joins said first and second segments, and wherein said fastener extends through an aperture provided in said first segment. 16. The robotic arm assembly of claim 15, wherein said aperture is sufficiently larger than said fastener so as to permit said second segment to rotate about its longitudinal axis with respect to said first segment. 17. The robotic arm assembly of claim 15, wherein said aperture is sufficiently larger than said fastener so as to permit said second segment to rotate about its longitudinal axis with respect to said first segment within the range of .+-.2.degree. with respect to said first segment. 18. The robotic arm assembly of claim 11, wherein said end effector comprises a planar blade. 19. The robotic arm assembly of claim 10, wherein said first and second arms pivot in opposite directions. 