A card for identifying a user to a computer system using a sensing device, the card having an interface surface having disposed thereon or therein coded data, the coded data including a plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the user, the sensing device being adapted to: (a) sense at least one coded data portion; (b) generate, using the at least one sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of the identity of the user; and, (c) transfer the indicating data to the computer system, the computer system being responsive to determine, using the indicating data, the identity of the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A shopping system comprising: a card for identifying a user to a computer system using a sensing device, the card having a first interface surface having disposed thereon or therein first coded data, the first coded data including a plurality of first coded data portions, each first coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the user; and a shopping receptacle having a shopping receptacle identity, the shopping receptacle comprising an optical sensing device adapted to: (a) sense at least one first coded data portion on the card; (b) sense second coded data on a second interface surface of a product item, said second coded data being indicative of a product identity and of a plurality of locations on the second interface surface; (c) generate first indicating data identifying the user identity using the sensed first coded data; (d) generate second indicating data using the sensed second coded data; and, (e) transfer the shopping receptacle identity data, the first indicating data and the second indicating data to the computer system, the computer system being responsive to the received data to perform an action, wherein the second indicating data is indicative of the product indentity and of at least one of: (i) a position of the sensed second coded data; (ii) a position of the sensing device relative to the second interface surface; (iii) an orientation of the sensed second coded data; and, (iv) an orientation of the sensing device relative to the second interface surface. 2. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the computer system is responsive to: (a) associate the shopping receptacle with the user; and, (b) dissociate the shopping receptacle and the user. 3. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data distinguishes the identity of the user from the identity of every other user known to the computer system. 4. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded. 5. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 6. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 7. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is printed using infrared ink. 8. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is provided on the first interface surface coincident with visible markings. 9. The shopping system of claim 1, wherein the first coded data is disposed over a substantial portion of the first interface surface. 10. A method of shopping using a card and a shopping receptacle, the card having a first interface surface having disposed thereon or therein first coded data, the first coded data including a plurality of first coded data portions, each first coded data portion being indicative of an identity of a user, the shopping receptacle having a shopping receptacle identity and comprising an optical sensing device, wherein the method includes in the sensing device: (a) sensing at least one first coded data portion of the first interface surface; (b) sensing second coded data on a second interface surface of a product item, said second code data being indicative of a product identity and of a plurality of locations on the second interface surface; (c) generating first indicating data identifying the user identity using the sensed first coded data; (d) generating second indicating using the sensed second coded data; and, (e) transferring the shopping receptacle identity data, the first indicating data and the second indicating data to the computer system, the computer system being responsive to the received data to perform an action, wherin the second indicating data is indicative of the product identity and of at least one of: (i) a position of the sensed second coded data; (ii) a position of the sensing device relative to the second interface surface; (iii) an orientation of the sensed second coded data; and, (iv) an orientation of the sensing device relative to the second interface surface. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the action is at least one of: (i) associating the shopping receptacle with the user; and, (ii) dissociating the shopping receptacle and the user. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the method includes, in the computer system: (a) receiving the first indicating data from the sensing device; and, (b) determining, using the received first indicating data, user identity data indicative of the identity of the user; and, (c) performing the action using the user identity data. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coded data distinguishes the identity of the user from the identity of every other user known to the computer system. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coded is printed using infrared ink. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coded data is provided on the first interface surface coincident with visible markings. 19. The method of claim 10, wherein the first coded data is disposed over a substantial portion of the first interface surface. 