A system for high-speed inspection is provided. The system includes a digital camera focused on an inspection location and generating image data. An array of light emitting diodes generates light beams, and one or two lenses collimate the light beams. The angle of incidence of the collimated light on an item at the inspection location is greater than approximately 50 degrees, such as to avoid flashing which can be created by coating on the inspection item or other surface effects. The collimating lenses have a center hole and the digital camera is focused on the inspection location through the center hole.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for high-speed inspection comprising: a digital camera focused on an inspection location and generating image data; an array of light emitting diodes; a collimating lens receiving the array of light emitting diodes and collimating the light on the inspection location; and wherein the angle of incidence of the collimated light on an item at the inspection location is greater than approximately 50 degrees, and the collimating lens has a top, a bottom, and a circular perimeter and the array of light emitting diodes is a circular array that is disposed around a circumference of the collimating lens. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the collimating lens further comprises one or more additional collimating lenses to obtain a desired angle of incidence of the collimated light. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the collimating lens has a center hole and the camera is focused on the inspection location through the center hole. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the camera applies a high optical magnification factor, and the collimated light increases the light intensity on the inspection location to allow the exposure time required for the camera to capture an image to be decreased. 5. The system of claim 1 further comprising an inspection item having a compound surface, wherein the angle of incidence of the collimated light is selected to prevent flashing from the compound surface. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the inspection location is circular having a diameter smaller than 1 mm. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising an inspection system receiving the image data and identifying one or more markings on a surface of an inspection item underneath a coating compound. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a character recognition system receiving the image data and identifying one or more characters on a surface of an inspection item underneath a coating compound; and a pass/fail system generating pass/fail data for the inspection item based on the one or more characters. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising a character recognition system receiving the image data and identifying one or more characters on a surface of an inspection item underneath a coating compound. 10. A system for high-speed inspection comprising: a high-speed digital camera with a high optical magnification factor focused on a circular inspection location having a diameter of less than 1 mm; a circular array of light emitting diodes; a circular collimating lens having a top, a bottom, and a hole at the center, wherein the circular array of light emitting diodes is disposed at the top of and around a circumference of the circular collimating lens, the circular collimating lens receiving light from the array of light emitting diodes and emitting collimated light; an inspection item having a compound on a surface of the inspection item, the inspection item disposed at the inspection location; and wherein the high-speed digital camera is focused on the inspection item through the hole of the collimating lens, and where an angle of incidence of the collimated light on an item at the inspection location is selected to mitigate flashing caused by the compound on the surface of the inspection item, the angle of incidence being greater than approximately 50 degrees. 11. A method for inspecting an item comprising: generating a ring-shaped light beam; collimating the ring-shaped light beam so as to direct the collimated, conical ring-shaped light beam onto an inspection site at an angle of incidence greater than approximately 50 degrees so as to mitigate flashing from an inspection item having a surface coated with a compound. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising generating digital image data of the inspection item at a high speed and using a high magnification ratio, wherein the collimated, conical ring-shaped light beam reduces an expose time required to generate the digital image data of the inspection item by increasing a light intensity on the inspection item. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein generating the ring-shaped light beam comprises generating the ring-shaped light beam from an array of light emitting diodes. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein collimating the circular light beam comprises: determining an angle of incidence that will provide the circular light beam to a second collimating lens at a predetermined angle so as to provide the collimated, conical light beam onto an inspection site at an angle of incidence greater than approximately 50 degrees; and providing the second collimating lens between the circular light beam and the inspection item that collimates the circular light beam at the predetermined angle of incidence. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein collimating the circular light beam comprises: determining an angle of collimation that will provide the collimated, conical light beam onto an inspection site at an angle of incidence greater than approximately 50 degrees; and providing a second collimating lens between the circular light beam and the inspection item that collimates the circular light beam at the predetermined angle of collimation. 16. The method of claim 11 further comprising: generating digital image data of the inspection item at a high speed; and detecting alphanumeric data from the surface of the inspection item underneath the compound in the digital image data. 17. The method of claim 11 further comprising: generating digital image data of the inspection item at a high speed using a high-speed digital camera with a high optical magnification factor; and detecting marking data from the inspection item in the digital image data. 18. The method of claim 11 wherein a tip of the conical ring-shaped light beam has a diameter smaller than 1 mm. 19. The method of claim 11 further comprising: generating digital image data of the inspection item at a high speed using a high-speed digital camera with a high optical magnification factor; detecting marking data from the inspection item in the digital image data; and generating notification data if the marking data does not match predetermined marking data. 20. The method of claim 11 further comprising: generating digital image data of the inspection item at a high speed using a high-speed digital camera with a high optical magnification factor; and detecting alphanumeric data from the inspection item in the digital image data. 