UV molding from elastomeric masters on thin bendable backplanes that allow replication of UV-cured resist patterns with high accuracy is disclosed. This design accommodates large substrate topographies, has improved de-molding properties, and facilitates two-in-one lithography and assembly of the sliders on topographically structured elastomeric sticky pads. The combination of sticky pad assembly and two-in-one lithography allows an all-in-one harmony process based on UV-molding. These features cure prior art technical problems of the harmony process while significantly reducing cost.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for replicating resist patterns with high accuracy, comprising: a carrier having a plurality of workpieces mounted thereto with a bonding material, the bonding material comprising a bonding pad having flat elastomeric sticky protrusions separated by drainage channels that allow the workpieces to be placed thereon at high speed; and a stamp for accommodating co-planarity variations between the workpieces including a step height and a tilt angle, the stamp being formed from a laminate of materials comprising a polymer layer, a pad adjacent to the workpieces, and a glass layer located between the polymer layer and the pad. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the stamp is a transparent, bendable, UV-stable, conformal stamp. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the pad is a poly-dimethylsiloxane sticky pad. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the glass layer has a thickness in a range of approximately 25 to 250 microns. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the polymer layer has a thickness in a range of approximately 25 to 250 microns. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the pad has a thickness in a range of approximately 5 to 1000 microns. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein adjacent ones of the workpieces are spaced apart from each other by approximately 30 to 1000 microns. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein a maximum value of the step height that can be accommodated by the stamp is up to approximately 20 microns. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein a maximum value of the tilt angle that can be accommodated by the stamp is up to approximately 2 degrees. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the workpieces are coated with a pre-polymer. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising grooves formed in the pad to facilitate removal of the pre-polymer. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the grooves comprise a series of rectangular ridges that are symmetrically spaced apart from each other. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the elastomeric protrusions are approximately 20 microns in width, and the drainage channels are approximately 5 microns in width and depth. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the bonding pad is formed from a siloxane rubber, such as poly-dimethylsiloxane. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the flat elastomeric sticky protrusions are enhanced with a surface activation. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the bonding material further comprises a backplane located between the carrier and the bonding pad for preventing lateral and vertical distortions of the bonding pad, and the backplane is flat, laterally stiff, and bendable, and is formed from a material selected from the group consisting of glass, metal, silicon, and polymer. 