A printhead system is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and at least two electrical connectors for connecting electrical signals to the respective ones of the printhead integrated circuits. The system further comprises drive electronics incorporating at least one controller for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the printhead integrated circuits, and a casing in which the printhead module and drive electronics are removably mounted. Each of the electrical connectors is arranged to direct control signals from the controller to the corresponding printhead integrated circuit and to direct power from a power supply to the corresponding printhead integrated circuit and the drive electronics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead system, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto a surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a plurality of electrical connectors individually connected to each of the at least two printhead integrated circuits respectively such that only one of the electrical connectors is connected to any one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; drive electronics incorporating at least one controller for controlling the printing operation of at least one of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and a casing in which the at least one printhead module and the drive electronics are removably mounted, wherein each of the electrical connectors simultaneously establishes an electrical connection between the printhead integrated circuit to which it is connected and the controller relevant to that printhead integrated circuit, and between a power supply and the drive electronics. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the electrical connectors each comprise a flexible printed circuit board connected to respective ones of the at least two printhead integrated circuits. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the drive electronics is provided on a printed circuit board carrying respective connection ports which are directly aligned with and connected to the respective flexible printed circuit boards and printhead integrated circuits. 4. A printhead system according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide the power from the power supply to electrical connectors. 5. A printhead system according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the at least two electrical connectors, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid disiribution members. 