Methods and systems for authenticating the operation of electronic devices, such as RFID tags are provided. In accordance with the method, a web of substrates having a plurality of devices attached thereto are received. The operation of a first set of the plurality of devices is authenticated. If it is determined that one or more devices is not operating properly, the location of each device is determined. The web of substrates is then moved incrementally to expose a second set of the plurality of devices. Each device that does not operate properly is indicated by applying ink to the substrate containing the device or by removing the device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for authenticating the operation of a plurality of RFID devices, comprising: (A) receiving a web having a plurality of substrates and a wafer having a plurality of dies; (B) transferring dies to substrates of the web to form a plurality of RFID devices; (C) generating position data for at least one of the plurality of RFID devices; (D) authenticating the operation of the plurality of RFID devices through a read operation; (E) identifying one or more RFID devices which did not respond during the read operation; and (F) locating the one or more non-responsive RFID devices based on an identification number of the non-responsive RFID device and the generated position data for the non-responsive RFID device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein step (F) comprises: applying ink to the substrate containing the non-responsive RFID device. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (F) comprises: storing the location information associated with the non-responsive RFID device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (C) comprises: generating position data for the at least one RFID device during movement of the web. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of locating the one or more non-responsive RFID devices comprises: determining an identification number associated with the non-responsive RFID device; and using the identification number to access generated position data associated with the non-responsive RFID device. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of locating the one or more non-responsive RFID devices comprises: determining an identification number associated with the device; and calculating location information. 7. A method for authenticating the operation of a plurality of devices, comprising: (A) receiving a web having a plurality of substrates and a wafer having a plurality of dies; (B) transferring dies to substrates of the web to form a plurality of devices; (C) authenticating the operation of a device of the plurality of devices; and (D) if the operation of the device does not authenticate properly in step (C), identifying a location of the device, wherein step (D) includes: determining the location of the device on the web of substrates using the identification number; determining the time when the device was transferred; using the difference between the current time and the time when the device was transferred to identify the present location of the device in the system. 8. A method for authenticating the operation of a plurality of devices, comprising: (A) receiving a web having a plurality of substrates and a wafer having a plurality of dies; (B) transferring dies to substrates of the web to form a plurality of devices; (C) authenticating the operation of a device of the plurality of devices; and (D) if the operation of the device does not authenticate properly in step (C), identifying a location of the device, wherein step (D) includes: determining the location of the device on the web of substrates using the identification number; determining a count when the device was transferred; and using the difference between a present count and the count when the device was transferred to identify the present location of the device in the system. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein step (D) comprises: performing a far field read of the plurality of RFID tags being authenticated. 10. The method of claim 1, where step (A) comprises: receiving a web of substrates having a width of a single substrate. 11. The method of claim 1, where step (A) comprises: receiving a web of substrates having a width of multiple substrates. 12. A method for authenticating the operation of a device, comprising: (A) receiving a web of substrates; (B) receiving a wafer; (C) transferring a die from the wafer to a substrate of the web to form a device; (D) storing a first time at which the device is formed; (E) tracking movement of the device with the web; (F) testing the device; (G) the device fails the test of step (F), storing a second time at which the device is determined to have failed the test of step (F); and (H) determining a location of the device based on the difference between the first time and the second time. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: marking the determined location of the device in the web to indicate the device has failed. 14. A method for authenticating the operation of a device, comprising: (A) receiving a web of substrates; (B) receiving a wafer; (C) transferring a die from the wafer to a substrate of the web to form a device; (D) storing a position in the web at which the device is formed; (E) tracking movement of the device with the web; (F) testing the device; (G) if the device fails the test of step (F), storing a number of increments of the movement of the web until the device is determined to have failed the test of step (F); and (H) determining a location of the device based on the stored position and the stored increments of the movement of the web. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: marking the determined location of the device in the web to indicate the device has failed. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein step (C) includes: determining the location of the device on the web of substrates using the identification number; determining the time when the device was transferred; and using the difference between the current time and the time when the device was transferred to identify the present location of the device in the system. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein step (C) includes: determining the location of the device on the web of substrates using the identification number; determining a count when the device was transferred; and using the difference between a present count and the count when the device was transferred to identify the present location of the device in the system. 