A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for implementing command and control for home devices via a home network, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a first home device to the home network; connecting a second home device to the home network, which is capable of being controlled by said first home device; detecting presently connected home devices on the home network in an autonomous manner; accepting user input from a user by a presently connected home device that is capable of displaying a user interface; and controlling the second home device by sending control and command information from the first home device to the second home device based on the user input. 2. The method of claim 1, the second home device stores user interface data. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of the second home device storing user interface data includes the step of storing the user interface data as one or more formats selected from the group consisting of: HTML, XML, JAVA, JAVASCRIPT, GIF, and JPEG. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the first home device is capable of being controlled by another home device to perform a function. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of connecting the first home device to the home network includes the step of signaling a configuration manager that the first home device is connected to the home network, wherein the configuration manager maintains a list of home devices that are currently connected to the home network. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of signaling the configuration manager that the first home device is connected to the home network includes the step of signaling a dynamic host configuration protocol server that the first home device is connected to the home network. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the first home device performs the further step of accessing the list of home devices maintained by the configuration manager. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of displaying a device link page that contains a button identifying a manufacturer of the second home device, wherein the button is a hyperlink that provides a link to a home page associated with the manufacturer. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of displaying the device link page comprises the step of accessing and displaying the list of home devices maintained by the configuration manager. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of connecting the first home device to the home network includes the step of connecting the first home device to a 1394 serial bus. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of connecting the second home device to the home network includes the step of connecting the second home device to a 1394 serial bus. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of connecting the first home device to the home network includes the step of connecting the first home device to an Ethernet bus. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of connecting the second home device to the home network includes the step of connecting the second home device to an Ethernet bus. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of connecting a first home device to the home network includes the step of connecting the first home device to a first bus; and the step of connecting a second home device to the home network includes the step of connecting the second home device to a second bus; wherein the first bus is connected to the second bus using a bridge proxy, wherein the bridge proxy provides a communication interface between the first bus and the second bus. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of connecting the home network to the Internet. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein displaying a user interface comprises displaying a user interface on the first home device, the user interface comprising an HTML page associated with the second home device, such that the HTML page is stored on the second home device. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of connecting the second home device to the home network includes the step of signaling a configuration manager that the second home device is connected to the home network, wherein the configuration manager maintains a list of home devices that are currently connected to the home network. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of signaling the configuration manager that the second home device is connected to the home network includes the step of signaling a dynamic host configuration protocol server that the second home device is connected to the home network. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of connecting the first home device to the home network comprises the step of using an Internet Protocol (IP) and the step of connecting the second home device to the home network comprises the step of using an IP. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the home network uses a layer other than an IP network layer as a communication layer therefor. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the home network uses a Function Control Protocol (FCP) for communication. 22. The method of claim 1, further including the steps of receiving user interface data at the home device capable of displaying a user interface, over said home network; and the step of controlling the second home device by sending control and command information includes the step of controlling the second home device by sending control and command information over the Internet. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein: the second home device stores user interface data in a selected format that defines a user interface for commanding and controlling of the second home device; the method further including the steps of: receiving the user interface data at the home device capable of displaying a user interface, via the home network from the second home device; and displaying the user interface defined by the user interface data on the home device capable of displaying a user interface; such that: the step of accepting user input further includes the steps of accepting user input from a user in response to the user interacting with the user interface displayed on the home device capable of displaying a user interface; and the step of controlling the second home device further includes the steps of controlling the second home device by sending control and command information from the first home device to the second home device based on the user input, the first home device and the second home device both being operational during the sending of the control and command information. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the second home device stores the user interface data as a selected interface data. 