A robotic storage library is provided for reducing the transition time to reach an operational state following a transition from a power-off to a power-on state. The robotic storage library can generally include a transport unit for moving data cartridges, or other storage elements, between a location in a shelf system and a drive, or data transfer interface, to complete storage operations for a host computer. The library can further include a controller for causing an audit to be performed to create an inventory of the locations. The audit can be stored in nonvolatile memory prior to the power transition. The inventory information can be transmitted to a host computer after the power transition.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic data storage library for operation with at least one data storage element and with the ability to reduce an amount of time to reach an operational state after a transition of the library from a power-off state to a power-on state, the robotic data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations, each capable of holding at least one of said data storage element; a data transfer interface for receiving one of said data storage elements and establishing a communication path with said data storage element so that data can be transferred between the data storage element and a host computer; a transport unit for moving one of said data storage elements between one of said plurality of storage locations and said data transfer interface; a nonvolatile memory for storing an inventory of locations of the robotic data storage library; a means for causing an audit to be performed to create an inventory, causing said inventory to be stored in said nonvolatile memory prior to said transition, and causing said inventory to be transmitted to the host computer after said transition. 2. The library of claim 1 wherein said plurality of storage locations comprises at least one location further capable of holding a magazine; said transport unit is adapted to move said magazine to and from said location; and said means for causing said audit to be performed to create said inventory comprises means for creating an inventory of locations capable of holding said magazine. 3. The library of claim 2 wherein said means for causing said audit to be performed to create said inventory comprises means for creating an inventory of locations each capable of holding one of said magazines and an inventory of locations capable of holding all other of said data storage elements. 4. The library of claim 1 wherein said data transfer interface comprises a port for receiving a drive pack and establishing a communication path with said drive pack so that data can be transferred between the drive pack and said host computer; said plurality of storage locations comprises a location capable of holding said drive pack; said transport unit is adapted to move said drive pack between said location and said port; and said means for causing said audit to be performed to create said inventory comprises means for creating an different inventory of locations capable of holding said drive pack. 5. A method for reducing the transition time required to reach an operational state of a robotic data storage library after a switching the library from a power-off state to a power-on state, the method comprising: providing said robotic data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations, each capable of holding at least one data storage element, a data transfer interface for receiving one of said data storage elements and establishing a communication path with one of said data storage elements so that data can be transferred between the data storage element and a host computer, and a transport unit for moving one of said data storage elements between one of said plurality of storage locations and said data transfer interface; auditing said robotic data storage library to create an inventory of locations of said robotic data storage library; storing said inventory of said robotic data storage library in a nonvolatile memory prior to said transition; transitioning said robotic data storage library from a power-off state to a power-on state; transmitting, following said step of transitioning, said inventory to the host computer. 6. The method, as claimed in claim 5, wherein, following said step of transitioning, monitoring operation of said robotic data storage library and said inventory for an error in said inventory, and, if said error is found, performing an audit. 7. The method, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said step of performing an audit comprises performing a background audit to update said inventory. 8. The method, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said step of performing an audit comprises performing an off-line audit to update said inventory. 9. The method, as claimed in claim 5, wherein, following said transport unit moving one of said data storage elements, updating said inventory in said nonvolatile memory. 10. A robotic data storage library comprising: a plurality of data storage elements each disposed in one of a plurality of accommodating storage locations wherein each of said data storage elements is adapted to cooperate with a compatible data transfer interface; said data transfer interface capable of receiving data from a host for storage on said cooperating data storage element; a transfer unit for moving each of said data storage elements between one of said storage locations and said data transfer interface; a controller prior to a power transition from a power-off state to a power-on state is capable of causing an audit to be performed to create an inventory of at least where said storage elements are located within said library and in response to sensing said power transition, said controller causing transmission of said inventory to said host; and nonvolatile memory for storing said inventory. 11. The library of claim 10, wherein at least one of said plurality of data storage elements is selected from one of the group consisting of: a tape, a tape cartridge, a tape magazine, a disk, a disk cartridge, a disk pack, a disk drive, a disk drive pack, a memory stick and a memory card. 12. The library of claim 10, wherein said plurality of data storage elements are disc drives that cooperate with said data transfer interface via a port for receiving said drive. 13. The library of claim 10, wherein said plurality of data storage elements are tape cartridges each capable of cooperating with said data transfer interface, said interface comprises a drive for receiving said cartridge. 14. The library of claim 10 wherein said plurality of data storage elements comprise a first type of storage element and a second type of storage element wherein said first and second types of storage elements are adapted to respectively cooperate with a first and second compatible data transfer interface. 15. The library of claim 14 wherein said inventory includes both said first type and second type of storage elements. 16. The library of claim 14 wherein said first type of storage element is a disk drive pack and said second type of storage element is a tape magazine. 17. The library of claim 16, wherein said data first compatible transfer interface is adapted to cooperate with said drive pack when said drive pack is at least partially inserted in a receiving port associated with said data transfer interface wherein said transfer interface establishes a communication path between said drive pack and said host computer. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein further comprising updating said inventory in said nonvolatile memory, following said transport unit moving one of said data storage elements. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein said inventory further comprises an accounting of all storage location not acommodating one of said data storage elements. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein said inventory further comprises an accounting of said data transfer interfaces. 21. A method for improving time to reach an operational state of a robotic data storage library when turned on, the method comprising: transitioning said library from a power-off state to a power-on state, wherein said library comprises a transfer unit for moving one of a plurality of data storage elements between an accommodating storage location and a data transfer interface; auditing said library to create an inventory of said storage locations that are accommodating one of said data storage elements prior to said transition; storing said inventory in a nonvolatile memory prior to said transition; transmitting said inventory to a host computer after said transition. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said inventory can include storage locations not accommodating a data storage element. 23. The method of claim 21 further comprising determining if said inventory was stored accurately in said nonvolatile memory after said transition. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said transmitting step is only performed upon determining that said inventory was stored accurately in said nonvolatile memory after said transition. 25. The method of claim 23 wherein said determining step comprises querying an operator. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said transmitting step is only performed after verifying from said querying step that said inventory was stored accurately in said nonvolatile memory. 27. The method of claim 25 wherein if said verifying step indicates that said inventory was not stored accurately, performing a new inventory and transmitting said new inventory. 28. The method of claim 23 further comprising checking a status of a sensor. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein said determining step comprises performing a partial audit. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein if a result of said partial audit comprises an indication of validation of said inventory, said step of transmitting said inventory is performed following said step of performing a partial audit. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein, if a result of said partial audit comprises an indication of invalidation of said inventory, transmitting said inventory to the host computer with notice of invalidation and performing a background audit of said robotic data storage library. 32. The method in of claim 29, wherein, if a result of said partial audit comprises an indication of invalidation of said inventory, performing an off-line audit of said robotic data storage library to establish a new inventory and transmit said new inventory instead of said inventory. 33. The method of claim 28 wherein said transmission step is accomplished after said status of said sensor validates said inventory was stored accurately. 34. The method of claim 28 further comprising creating a new inventory if said status of said sensor indicates said inventory was stored inaccurately and said inventory for said transmission is replaced with said new inventory. 35. The method of claim 21 wherein said plurality of data storage elements includes a first and second type of data storage element and said storage locations are adapted to hold said first second type of data storage elements. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein said inventory includes a first inventory of said first type of data storage elements and a second inventory of said second type of data storage elements. 37. The method of claim 21 wherein one of said plurality of data storage elements is selected from one of the group consisting of: tape cartridge, tape magazine, disc drive pack, optical compact disc, flash memory device, magnetic disc drive, magneto-optical drive and floppy disc drive. 38. The method of claim 21 wherein said audit includes a transport unit location of where said transport unit is disposed. 39. A method for reducing an operational state for a robotic data storage library when turned on, said library comprising: a transfer unit, a plurality of storage locations each capable of accommodating a data storage element and at least one data transfer interface wherein said transfer unit is capable of moving one of said data storage elements from one of said accommodating storage locations to said at least one data transfer interface, the method comprising: transitioning said library from a power-off state to a power-on state via a switch comprised by said library; auditing said library to determine which of said locations are accommodating said data storage elements and which of said locations are not accommodating said data storage elements; creating an inventory of said audit; storing said inventory in a nonvolatile memory prior to said transitioning step; and transmitting said inventory to a host computer after said transitioning step. 40. The method of claim 39 further comprising transporting one of said data storage elements between one of said storage locations and said at least one data transfer interface; and updating said inventory in said nonvolatile memory following said transporting step. 