A robotic data storage library with soft power on/off capability and a method for providing soft power capability in a robotic data storage library are disclosed. The method and apparatus control the application of power to at least one component of a robotic data storage library to reduce issues caused by transitioning the library between an ON state and an OFF state. One embodiment of a robotic data storage library, for example, comprises: (a) a plurality of storage locations, each capable of holding at least one data storage element; (b) a data transfer interface for receiving a data storage element and establishing a communication path with a data storage element so that data can be transferred between the data storage element and a host computer; (c) a transport unit for moving a data storage element between one of the plurality of storage locations and the data transfer interface; (d) a power supply for providing power to a component of the library; (e) a power switch switchable between an ON state and an OFF state; and (f) a power controller for monitoring the power switch for a transition between the ON state and the OFF state and after detecting a transition of the power switch between the ON state and the OFF state, controlling the application of power to the component.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic data storage library with soft power capability, the library comprising: a plurality of storage locations, each capable of holding at least one data storage element; a data transfer interface for receiving said data storage element and establishing a communication path with said data storage element so that data can be transferred between the data storage element and a host computer; a transport unit for moving said data storage element between one of said plurality of storage locations and said data transfer interface; a power supply for providing power to a component of the library; a power switch switchable between an ON state and an OFF state; and a power controller for monitoring said power switch for a transition between said ON state and said OFF state and after detecting said transition of said power switch between said ON state and said OFF state, controlling power applied to said component. 2. The library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said power controller comprises means for terminating the application of power to said component after a fixed amount of time has expired since detecting said transition of said power switch from said ON state to said OFF state. 3. The library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said power controller comprises means for terminating the application of power to said component after a variable amount of time has expired since detecting said transition of said power switch from said ON state to said OFF state. 4. The library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said power controller comprises means for sequencing a power output of said power supply with a second power output of a second power supply. 5. The library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said power supply comprises a power input interface for receiving power from a power source and a power output interface for providing power to components of the library. 6. The library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said power switch comprises a user interface that allows an individual to transition said power switch between said ON state and said OFF state. 7. The library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said power switch comprises an interface that allows an external device to transition said power switch between said ON state and said OFF state. 8. The library, as claimed in claim 7, wherein: said interface comprises a host computer interface that allows a said host computer to transition said power switch between said ON state and said OFF state. 9. The library, as claimed in claim 7, wherein: said interface comprises an uninterruptible power supply interface that allows an uninterruptible power supply to transition said power switch from said ON state to said OFF state. 10. The library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said component is said transport unit. 11. A robotic data storage library with soft power capability, the library comprising: a plurality of storage locations, each capable of holding at least one data storage element; a data transfer interface for receiving a data storage element and establishing a communication path with said data storage element so that data can be transferred between the data storage element and a host computer; a transport unit for moving said data storage element between one of said plurality of storage locations and said data transfer interface; a power supply for providing power to a component of the library; a power switch switchable between an ON state and an OFF state; a power controller for monitoring said power switch for a transition from said OFF state to said ON state and, after detecting said transition of said power switch from said OFF state to said ON state, delaying power applied to said component for a period of time after detection of said transition of said power switch from said OFF state to said ON state. 12. The library, as claimed in claim 11, wherein: said power supply comprises a first power supply comprising a first power output for providing power to said component of the library and a second power supply comprising a second power output for providing power to a second component of the library. 13. The library, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said power controller is adapted to sequentially enable said first power output of said power supply and said second power output of said second power supply to provide power to said component and said second component after detecting said transition of said power switch from said OFF state to said ON state. 14. The library, as claimed in claim 13, wherein: said first power output of said first power supply and said second power output of said second power supply are electrically connected to a common bus for providing power to said component and said second component. 15. The library, as claimed in claim 11, wherein said component is not associated with a second power supply. 16. The library, as claimed in claim 11, wherein: said power controller is adapted to cause a delay in the application of power to said component by controlling an output of said power supply. 17. The library, as claimed in claim 11, wherein: said power controller is adapted to cause said delay in the application of power to said component by communicating with said component via a network. 18. A robotic data storage library with soft power capability, the library comprising: a plurality of storage locations, each capable of holding at least one data storage element; a data transfer interface for receiving said data storage element and establishing a communication path with said data storage element so that data can be transferred between the data storage element and a host computer; a transport unit for moving said data storage element between one of said plurality of storage locations and said data transfer interface; a power supply for providing power to a component of the library; a power switch switchable between an ON state and an OFF state; a power controller for monitoring said power switch for a transition from said ON state to said OFF state and after detecting said transition of said power switch from said ON state to said OFF state, issuing a power termination message to said component concerning termination of power applied to said component. 19. The library, as claimed in claim 18, wherein: said power controller comprises means for terminating the application of power to said component after a fixed amount of time has expired since issuing said power termination message to said component. 20. The library, as claimed in claim 18, wherein: said power controller comprises means for terminating the application of power to said component after a variable amount of time has expired since issuing said power termination message to said component. 21. The library, as claimed in claim 20, wherein: said means for terminating comprises means for changing said variable amount of time from a first value to a second value that is greater than said first value if a request for an extension of time is received from said component before expiration of said variable amount of time when said variable amount of time has said first value. 22. The library, as claimed in claim 21, wherein: said means for terminating comprises means for issuing a revised power termination message to said component indicating a change in said variable time from said first value to said second value. 23. The library, as claimed in claim 18, wherein: said power supply provides power to said power controller independent of supplying power to said components. 24. The library, as claimed in claim 18, wherein: said power controller comprises non-volatile data storage for storing a boot-strap program. 25. The library, as claimed in claim 18, wherein: said power controller comprises a network for communicating with said component. 26. The library, as claimed in claim 25, wherein: said network comprises a Control Area Network. 27. The library, as claimed in claim 25, wherein: said network comprises an Inter Integrated Circuit network. 28. The library, as claimed in claim 18, wherein: said power controller comprises means for monitoring the power output by said power supply. 29. The library, as claimed in claim 18, further comprising: a second plurality of storage locations for storing additional data storage elements; a second drive; a second power supply for providing power to a second component of the library; and a slave power controller for receiving a master-slave message from said power controller, wherein said slave power controller controls power applied to said second component of the library after receiving said master-slave message from said power controller. 30. The library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein said master-slave message comprises said termination message. 31. A method for providing soft power capability in a robotic data storage library comprising: providing a data storage library comprising a plurality of storage locations, each capable of holding at least one data storage element, a data transfer interface for receiving a data storage element and establishing a communication path with said data storage element so that data can be transferred between the data storage element and a host computer, a transport unit for moving said data storage element between one of said plurality of storage locations and said data transfer interface, a power supply for providing power to a component of the library, and a power switch switchable between an ON state and an OFF state; monitoring said power switch for a transition between said ON state and said OFF state; and controlling power applied to said component after detecting said transition between said ON state and said OFF state. 