The present invention provides methods and apparatus for controlling light-induced tissue treatment. In accordance with various aspects of the present invention, the invention provides for improved, real-time control of the light beam operational parameters which enables greater safety, efficiency, uniformity and continuity of the treatment process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlled tissue treatment comprising: a light emitter that emits at least one light beam; a moveable handpiece adapted to deliver the at least one light beam to an area of tissue to be treated in a pattern of discrete treatment zones during movement of the handpiece across the area of tissue, wherein a tissue treatment depends upon one or more operational parameters of the at least one light beam, and the movement of the hand piece across the area of tissue is defined by a plurality of variable positional parameters such that variation in at least one positional parameter affects the tissue treatment; a controller operably coupled to the handpiece for controlling the one or more operational parameters in response to the variation in at least one positional parameter; a detector configured to calculate the variations in at least one positional parameter; wherein the controller is configured to controllably adjust in real-time the one or more operational parameters in response to the variation in at least one positional parameter to cause at least one of a new non-zero treatment rate and a new treatment pattern; wherein the one or more operational parameters for the light beam include a diameter at the tissue surface in a range less than about 500 micrometers, and a treatment density in a range between about 100 and about 2000 discrete treatment zones per square centimeter per handpiece pass over a given tissue area; and further comprising a scanning mechanism, wherein the controller is configured to controllably adjust a scan parameter of the scanning mechanism to compensate for a change in the at least one positional parameter. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the tissue treatment is pre-selected, and the controller controllably adjusts in real-time the one or more operational parameters in order to continue the pre-selected tissue treatment. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more operational parameters for the light beam include a separation distance between adjacent discrete treatment zones of greater than about 75 micrometers. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector is at least one of an accelerometer, an optical detector array, a capacitive sensor array, a profilometer and an optical navigation sensor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the scanning mechanism includes at least one of a galvanometer, a piezoelectric, a mechanical scanning element, a MEMS element, nanotechnology, a rotating mirror, a rotating optical element, a holographic element, a counter-rotating wheel, a diffractive element, and an acousto-optical element. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the scanning mechanism and the controller are configured to cause at least one of an angular beam deviation and a translational beam motion. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector is configured to detect a presence of a contrast-enhancing substance applied to a target treatment portion, and wherein the controller and the scanner are configured to cause the light beam to treat only the target treatment portion. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light beam has a wavelength in a range between about 700 nm and about 3000 nm, the light beam is pulsed at a frequency in a range less than about 50,000 pulses per second, the light beam has an energy per pulse in a range between about 1 mJ and about 1 J, and the light beam has an optical fluence in a range between about 10 J/cm.sup.2 and about 1000 J/cm.sup.2. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the detector is configured to optically measure at least one of speed and velocity when used with a contrast enhancing agent. 10. A method for delivering a pre-selected dermatological tissue treatment comprising the steps of: applying a contrast-enhancing substance to an area of tissue to be treated, wherein the tissue comprises human skin; emitting at least one light beam from a handpiece towards the area of tissue to be treated, the light beam having at least one operational parameter affecting a dosage of a pre-selected tissue treatment; moving the handpiece across the area of tissue, wherein, during the moving, the handpiece receives the at least one light beam and delivers the at least one light beam to the area of tissue to be treated in a pattern of discrete treatment zones; the movement of the handpiece is defined by at least one variable positional parameter; and that variation in at least one positional parameter affects the dosage of the tissue treatment; measuring in real-time a variation in at least one positional parameter, wherein the measuring includes detecting the contrast-enhancing substance; and controllably adjusting in real-time the at least one operational parameters in response to the variation in at least one positional parameter to adjust a treatment rate in order to continue a pre-selected tissue treatment. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein measuring in real-time variations in at least one positional parameters comprises detecting variation in a parameter selected from the group consisting of a velocity of the handpiece relative to the tissue to be treated, a speed of the handpiece relative to the tissue to be treated, a distance from the handpiece to the tissue to be treated, and a position of the handpiece relative to the tissue to be treated. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein adjusting in real-time at least one operational parameter comprises modifying a light source of the light beam to adjust at least one parameter selected from the group consisting of a power level, a light beam intensity, a pulsation rate, a treatment temperature, and modifying at least one of a position and an angle of a handpiece delivery element. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein controllably adjusting the at least one operational parameters adjusts the treatment rate whereby the pre-selected tissue treatment can continue at a pre-determined dosage. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein controllably adjusting includes scanning the at least one light beam in a manner that limits blurring at least one of the discrete treatment zones. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the pattern of discrete treatment zones is characterized by a density of treatment zones, and controllably adjusting the at least one operational parameters adjusts the treatment rate whereby the pre-selected tissue treatment can continue at a pre-determined density of treatment zones. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of applying a contrast enhancing agent comprises the step of topically applying the contrast enhancing agent. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the contrast enhancing agent applied during the applying step makes the measuring step more robust by improving accuracy of the measuring the variation in at least one positional parameter, wherein the at least one positional parameter is selected from the group consisting of a speed, a velocity, or a change in position of the handpiece relative to the treatment area. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the contrast-enhancing substance includes at least one of a plurality of particles, a suspension, a colloid, an emulsion, a dye and a solution. 19. A method for delivering a pre-selected tissue treatment comprising the steps of: applying a contrast-enhancing substance to an area of tissue to be treated; emitting at least one light beam from a handpiece towards the tissue to be treated, the light beam having at least one operational parameter affecting a dosage of a pre-selected tissue treatment; moving the handpiece across the area of tissue, wherein, during the moving, the handpiece receives the at least one light beam and delivers the at least one light beam to the area of tissue to be treated in a pattern of discrete treatment zones, the movement of the handpiece is defined by at least one variable positional parameter and that variation in at least one positional parameter affects the dosage of the tissue treatment; measuring in real-time a variation in at least one positional parameter, wherein the measuring includes detecting the contrast-enhancing substance; and controllably adjusting in real-time the at least one operational parameters in response to the variation in at least one positional parameter to adjust a treatment rate in order to continue a pre-selected tissue treatment, wherein the contrast-enhancing substance is applied to a target tissue treatment area, and the at least one operational parameters are controllably adjusted to cause the at least one light beam to be directed only to the target tissue treatment area. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein measuring in real-time a variation in at least one positional parameters comprises detecting variation in a parameter selected from the group consisting of a velocity of the handpiece relative to the tissue to be treated, a speed of the handpiece relative to the tissue to be treated, and a position of the handpiece relative to the tissue to be treated. 21. The method of claim 10, wherein controllably adjusting in real-time the at least one operational parameter comprises modifying a light source of the light beam to adjust at least one parameter selected from the group consisting of a power level, a light beam intensity, a pulsation rate, a treatment rate, a treatment temperature, and modifying at least one of a position and an angle of a handpiece delivery element. 22. The method of claim 10, wherein controllably adjusting in real time the at least one operational parameters adjusts the treatment rate whereby the pre-selected tissue treatment can continue at a pre-determined dosage. 23. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of emitting at least one light beam from a handpiece towards the area of tissue to be treated comprises scanning the at least one light beam, and the step of controllably adjusting the at least one operational parameters causes at least one of an angular beam deviation of the at least one light beam and a translational beam motion of the at least one light beam. 24. An apparatus for controlled tissue treatment comprising: a light emitter that emits at least one light beam; a moveable handpiece adapted to deliver the at least one light beam to an area of tissue to be treated in a pattern of discrete treatment zones during movement of the handpiece across the area of tissue, wherein a tissue treatment depends upon one or more operational parameters of the at least one light beam, and the movement of the handpiece across the area of tissue is defined by a plurality of variable positional parameters such that variation in at least one positional parameter affects the tissue treatment; a controller operably coupled to the handpiece for controlling the one or more operational parameters in response to the variation in at least one positional parameter; a detector configured to calculate the variations in at least one positional parameter; wherein the controller is configured to controllably adjust in real-time the one or more operational parameters in response to the variation in at least one positional parameter to cause at least one of a new non-zero treatment rate and a new treatment pattern; wherein the one or more operational parameters for the light beam include a diameter at the tissue surface in a range less than about 500 micrometers, and a treatment density in a range between about 100 and about 2000 discrete treatment zones per square centimeter per handpiece pass over a given tissue area; and wherein the detector is configured to detect a presence of a contrast-enhancing agent that is applied to the area of tissue to be treated. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a scanning mechanism, wherein the controller is configured to controllably adjust a scan parameter of the scanning mechanism to compensate for a change in the at least one positional parameter. 