A control system for controlling processing of workpieces such as jewelry has gantry and gimbal units having x, y, z translational and x, y, z rotational degrees of freedom, the units carrying a gripper for holding a piece of jewelry. Drive motors are associated with each translational and rotational degree of freedom and an actuator operates the gripper. A controller is linked to the gantry and gimbal unit motors, the gripper unit actuator, and actuators associated with a series of work stations for carrying out processing operations such as lapping and grinding. The controller controls movement of the gripper unit from a start position to pick up a workpiece and move it along a programmed path between the processing stations, and controls operation of actuators at each processing station to process workpieces according to stored program instructions. A user input device provides optional operator control of the movement and processing for system training purposes.
Claims I claim: 1. A processing control system for controlling processing of a series of workpieces, comprising: a gantry unit having a frame and a horizontal work plate mounted on the frame, and a gantry system having x, y and z translational directions of freedom, each direction of freedom having an associated sliding carriage and drive motor; a gimbal unit mounted on the gantry system above the work plate and having x, y and z rotational degrees of freedom and associated x, y and z gimbal motors for controlling rotation about the x, y and z rotational axes of the gimbal unit; a gripper unit secured to the gimbal unit for holding a workpiece to be processed and an actuator for actuating the gripper unit to grip and release a workpiece; a plurality of processing stations mounted on the work plate, each processing station having at least one associated actuator for controlling operation of one or more tools at the processing station; a controller linked to the gantry and gimbal unit motors, the gripper unit actuator, and the processing station actuators for controlling movement of the gripper unit from a start position to pick up a workpiece and move it along a programmed path between the processing stations, and for controlling operation of actuators at each processing station to process workpieces according to stored program instructions including grinding force parameters; at least one user input device linked to said controller for selective manual control of said gantry and gimbal unit motors, gripper unit actuator, and processing station actuators; and an output monitor for displaying machine and operating parameters to a user. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said user input device comprises a joystick movable in left and right and up and down directions, and having two additional movement control buttons. 3. The system as claimed in claim 2, wherein said controller has gantry operating means for manual operation of the gantry unit comprising means for associating right and left movements of the joystick input device with operation of the gantry x-axis motor to move a gantry x-axis carriage in corresponding directions, means for associating up and down movements of the joystick input device with operation of the gantry y-axis motor to move a gantry y axis carriage in opposite directions, and means for associating actuation of respective buttons on the joystick with operation of the gantry z-axis motor to move a gantry z-axis carriage in opposite directions, and gimbal operating means comprising means for associating right and left movements of the joystick with operation of a first gimbal motor to rotate in opposite directions, means for associating up and down movements of the joystick with operation of a second gimbal motor to rotate in opposite directions, and means for associating actuation of respective buttons on the joystick with operation of a third gimbal motor to rotate in opposite directions. 4. The system as claimed in claim 3, wherein said controller has a training mode further comprising means for user entry of data points as the gantry and gimbal units are controlled to move the gripper unit along a selected trajectory from a home position to a workpiece storage tray and from the tray past a series of selected processing stations whereby the user can train the controller with a selected trajectory for a particular style of workpiece. 5. The system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the training mode further comprises means for user entry of commands for actuating processing tools at the processing stations on the selected trajectory. 6. The system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the controller further comprises means for storing a series of workpiece processing sequences, each sequence being associated with a selected workpiece style and based on training commands entered by a user during training modes for each workpiece style. 7. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said controller further comprises tray set up means for user entry of the style and size of each workpiece to be processed in an automated processing operation and the position of each workpiece on a storage tray. 8. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the tray set up means further comprises means for copying a style and size previously entered to additional positions on the storage tray. 9. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the tray set up means further comprises means for entering an empty designation for a tray location carrying no workpiece. 10. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the controller further comprises means for automatically processing a series of workpieces on a tray based on a sequence of stored travel path and processing instructions associated with each style of workpiece on the tray, the automatic processing means comprising means for controlling the gantry and gimbal units to move the gripper unit from a start position to a location above a first position on the storage tray, means for lowering the gripper unit and actuating the gripper unit to pick up the workpiece at the first position, means for controlling the gantry and gimbal units and the processing station tools to process the workpiece according to the stored program instructions for the style and size of workpiece entered, means for returning the processed workpiece to the original tray or a separate tray, and means for repeating the automatic processing procedure until each workpiece on the storage tray has been processed according to the stored program instructions for the style and size of that particular workpiece. 11. The system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the controller further comprises means for stopping the automatic processing sequence in the event of an error. 12. The system as claimed in claim 11, including an alarm which is actuated by the controller on detection of an error. 13. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the workpieces comprise pieces of jewelry and at least one work station has a grinding tool. 14. The system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the jewelry pieces are rings and at least one work station includes a lapping tool for removing sprues from the outer and inner faces of the ring and from the outer side faces of the ring, and the controller further comprises means for controlling the gantry and gimbal units and the lapping tool to carry out a first lapping operation in which the ring is held horizontally and sprue is removed from the outer and inner surfaces of the ring and a second lapping operation in which sprue is removed from the outer side faces of the ring. 15. The system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the work stations include a flip station having a flip gripper for changing the orientation of a ring held by the gripper unit, the controller further comprising means for controlling the gripper unit to hold the ring vertically during the second lapping operation to expose a first side face of the ring for lapping against the lapping tool, means for controlling the lapping tool to remove sprue from the first side face of the ring, means for controlling the gantry and gimbal units to move the gripper unit to the flip station when lapping of the first side face is complete, means for controlling the flip gripper to hold the ring and flip the ring through 180 degrees, means for controlling the gripper unit to grip the flipped ring from the opposite side after it has been flipped such that the opposite, second side face of the ring is exposed for lapping, means for controlling the gantry and gimbal units to move the ring back to the lapping tool after flipping, and means for controlling the lapping tool to remove sprue from the second side face of the ring. 16. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controller further comprises a graphical user interface for display of current system working parameters on the output monitor, the working parameters including a graphical display of the current position of the gantry and gimbal units in any one of three graphical planes, the planes comprising x-y, y-z, and x-z planes. 17. The system as claimed in claim 16, wherein the parameters include the style and size of the workpiece currently being processed and the original position of the workpiece on a storage tray prior to processing. 18. The system as claimed in claim 17, wherein the processing stations comprise tools for controlled removal of material from a workpiece in order to shape the workpiece, the controller further comprising means for continuously calculating the average total material removal in a processing sequence and for displaying the average total material removed as a current working parameter on the output monitor. 