The present invention provides a multiple part capillary for use in mass analysis instruments. Specifically, a multiple part capillary comprising at least two capillary sections joined with airtight seal by a union for use in mass spectrometry (particularly with ionization sources) to transport ions between pressure regions of a mass spectrometer for analysis is described herein. Preferably, the capillary is useful to transport ions from an elevated pressure ionization source to a first vacuum region of a mass analysis system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mass spectrometer comprising: an ion source; at least one vacuum region; a mass analyzer; and a removable interface between said ion source and said vacuum region allowing ions to be delivered from said ion source into said vacuum region; wherein said removable interface comprises means for removably interfacing first and second capillary sections and means for substantially maintaining low pressure conditions within said vacuum regions upon decoupling of said interface; and wherein said interfaces are in electrical contact. 2. A mass spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein said ion source produces ions using an ionization method selected from the group consisting of atmospheric pressure ionization (API), electrospray ionization (ESI), desorption electrospray ionization (DESI), pneumatic assisted electrospray ionization, electron impact, fast atom bombardment ionization (FAB), chemical ionization, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI), secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), plasma desorption, and liquid chromatography. 3. A mass spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein said mass analyzer is selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass analyzer, a time-of-flight mass analyzer, an ion trap mass analyzer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer, and a magnetic sector mass analyzer. 4. A mass spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein said removable interface comprises first and second openings, wherein said first opening interfaces with said first capillary section comprising an outlet end and an inlet end, wherein said first opening is oriented to interface with said outlet end of said capillary, wherein said second opening interfaces with said second capillary section comprising an outlet, and wherein said second opening is oriented to interface with said inlet end. 5. A mass spectrometer according to claim 4, wherein the axis of said capillary sections may be placed at any angle with respect to said ion source. 6. A mass spectrometer according to claim 4, wherein said capillary sections are constructed from a flexible material. 7. A mass spectrometer according to claim 4, wherein said capillary sections are constructed from a rigid material. 8. A mass spectrometer according to claim 4, wherein said removable interface and said first capillary section are at different electrical potentials. 9. A mass spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein said electrical contact is established between said capillary sections and said interface by conductive coatings on said capillary sections. 10. A mass spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein said electrical contact is established between said capillary sections and said interface using electrically conductive springs. 11. A mass spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein said inlet of said first capillary section and said outlet of said second capillary section are adjacent to said removable interface. 12. A mass spectrometer according to claim 1, wherein said removable interface further comprises a union having first and second openings and a channel therethrough, said union configured to removably interface said first capillary section to said second capillary section, such that ions may be delivered from said source region into said first vacuum region through said first and second capillary sections. 13. A system for mass spectroscopic analysis, wherein said system comprises: an ion source subassembly; one or more vacuum subassemblies; a mass analysis subassembly; at least one capillary assembly; and a removable interface between said capillary assembly and said subassemblies; wherein said capillary assembly comprises first and second capillary sections, and a union having first and second openings, said union configured to removably interface said first capillary section to said second capillary section such that ions may be delivered between any of said subassemblies, and provide a substantially airtight seal between said subassemblies; wherein a plurality of said subassemblies may be integrated together by connecting at least one said capillary assembly to said subassemblies; and wherein said interfaces are in electrical contact. 14. A system according to claim 13, wherein said capillary assembly comprises a plurality of capillary sections. 15. A system according to claim 13, wherein said capillary assembly is constructed of a flexible material. 16. A system according to claim 13, wherein said capillary assembly is constructed of a rigid material. 17. A system according to claim 13, wherein said mass analysis subassembly comprises a mass analyzer selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass analyzer, a time-of-flight mass analyzer, an ion trap mass analyzer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer, and a magnetic sector mass analyzer. 18. A system according to claim 13, wherein said ion source subassembly comprises an ion source selected from the group consisting of an atmospheric pressure ionization (API) source, an electrospray ionization (ESI) source, a desorption electrospray ionization (DESI) source, a pneumatic assisted electrospray ionization source, an electron impact source, a fast atom bombardment ionization (FAB) source, a chemical ionization source, a matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) source, secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) source, a plasma desorption source, and a liquid chromatography source. 19. A system according to claim 13, wherein the ends of said capillary assembly are adjacent to said interface. 20. A mass spectrometer comprising: an ion source; at least one vacuum region; a mass analyzer; and a removable interface between said ion source and said vacuum region allowing ions to be delivered from said ion source into said vacuum region; wherein said removable interface for substantially maintaining low pressure conditions within said vacuum regions upon decoupling of said interface; and wherein said removable interface further comprises a union having first and second openings and a channel therethrough, said union configured to removably interface a first interface to a second interface, such that ions may be delivered from said ion source into said vacuum region through said first and second interfaces. 21. A mass spectrometer according to claim 20, wherein said ion source produces ions using an ionization method selected from the group consisting of atmospheric pressure ionization (API), electrospray ionization (ESI), desorption electrospray ionization (DESI), pneumatic assisted electrospray ionization, electron impact, fast atom bombardment ionization (FAB), chemical ionization, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI), secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS), plasma desorption, and liquid chromatography. 22. A mass spectrometer according to claim 20, wherein said mass analyzer is selected from the group consisting of a quadrupole mass analyzer, a time-of-flight mass analyzer, an ion trap mass analyzer, an ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzer, and a magnetic sector mass analyzer. 23. A mass spectrometer according to claim 20, wherein said removable interface and said first interface are at different electrical potentials. 24. A mass spectrometer according to claim 20, wherein electrical contact is established between said interfaces by conductive coatings on said interfaces. 25. A mass spectrometer according to claim 20, wherein electrical contact is established between said interfaces using electrically conductive springs. 26. A mass spectrometer according to claim 20, wherein said inlet of said first interface and said outlet of said second interface are adjacent to said removable interface. 