An autonomous robot performs maintenance and repair activities in oil and gas wells, and in pipelines. The robot uses the well and pipeline fluids to provide most of the energy required for the its mobility, and to charge a turbine from which it may recharge batteries or power a motor for additional propulsion. A control system of associated systems controls the robot, enabling the robot to share plans and goals, situations, and solution processes with wells, pipelines, and external control systems. The control system includes decision aids in a series of knowledge bases that contain the expertise in appropriate fields to provide intelligent behavior to the control system. The intelligent behavior of the control system enables real time maintenance management of wells and pipelines, through actively collecting information, goal-driven system, reasoning at multiple levels, context sensitive communication, activity performing, and estimation of the operators' intent.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A robot for repairing and maintaining oil and gas wells, comprising: a. a control system which uses sensor data: i. to maintain force against an inside wall of a tubing to prevent slippage; ii. to control advancing of the robot against obstacles in its path; iii. to detect leaks in the robot's hydraulics; and iv. to allow the robot to perform tasks, b. a motion sensor connected to the control system; c. means for using well liquids for self-propulsion, and d. an inch-worm drive for self propulsion, wherein: i. the inch-worm drive has a first arm having a first clamp, and a second arm having a second clamp, and the inch-worm drive moves by extending the first arm and clamping the first clamp against the inside wall of the tubing, then extending the second arm forward from the first arm, and clamping the second clamp against the wall, then releasing the first clamp, and moving the first arm to clamp the wall with the first clamp, close to the second clamp; ii. the clamps are hydraulically actuated to allow a control arm force, control slippage, and dithering the force element on the wall to control free fall of the tool into the well to save battery power; iii. the clamps also serve as centralizing mechanisms to permit better control of the robot's direction, and iv. the means for using well liquids comprises an iris having a controllable circumference. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the means for using well liquids comprises an inflatable member whose diameter is controlled using hydraulic actuation. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein: a. in free fall the iris extends to leave a small gap between the circumference of the iris and the inside wall; b. the motion sensor feeds motion data to the control system; c. in response to the motion data, the control system extends and retracts the iris to maintain speed; d. the control system recognizes any deviation in the inside wall, and turns over self-propulsion control to the inch-worm in highly deviated wells and in horizontal wells; and e. in free lift the iris further extends to use the production flow to lift the tool. 