A method including, in one embodiment, severing a sample at least partially from a substrate by cutting the substrate with a focused ion beam (FIB), capturing the substrate sample by activating a grasping element, and separating the captured sample from the substrate. The captured sample may be separated from the substrate and transported to an electron microscope for examination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, comprising: focused ion beam (FIB) means for at least partially severing a sample from a substrate; a grasping element configured to mechanically capture the sample; means for mechanically activating the grasping element to mechanically capture the sample; and means for separating the captured sample from the substrate. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for transporting the captured sample to a microscope for examination. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the microscope is a transmission electron microscope. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein the microscope is a scanning electron microscope. 5. The system of claim 2 wherein the microscope is a scanning transmission electron microscope. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the grasping element includes an integral actuator for mechanically configuring the grasping element between opened and closed positions. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the grasping element includes a thermally-activated end-effector configured to mechanically capture the sample upon at least one of heating and cooling of the end effector. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the grasping element includes an integral heater configured to activate the end effector. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the integral heater is resistively heated. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein the grasping element comprises a malleable end-effector and the means for activating the grasping element includes means for pressing the end-effector against the sample to form a compression bond. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the grasping element is configured to secure the sample during examination. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the means for activating the grasping element includes automated means for activating the grasping element to capture the sample via automation. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein the means for separating the captured sample from the substrate includes automated means for separating the captured sample from the substrate via automation. 14. The system of claim 1 further comprising automation means for controlling: the FIB means during the at least partial severing; the activating means during the sample capture; and the separating means during the sample separation. 15. A grasping element for capturing an FIB-prepared sample, comprising: a body configured to be coupled to a handling assembly; an actuating member coupled to the body; and a grasping member coupled to the actuating member and configured to mechanically capture an FIB-prepared sample in response to mechanical actuation of the actuating member. 16. The grasping element of claim 15 wherein the mechanical actuation is electro-thermal actuation. 17. The grasping element of claim 15 wherein the grasping member is a first one of a plurality of grasping members. 18. The grasping element of claim 17 wherein ones of the plurality of grasping members are substantially mirror images of one another. 19. The grasping element of claim 15 wherein the grasping member includes a first profile corresponding to a second profile of the FIB-prepared sample. 20. The grasping element of claim 19 wherein the first profile is substantially non-rectangular. 21. A grasping element for capturing an FIB-prepared sample, comprising: a body configured to be coupled to a handling assembly; an actuating member coupled to the body; and a grasping member coupled to the actuating member, the grasping member configured to mechanically capture an FIB-prepared sample, the grasping member further configured to release the FIB-prepared sample in response to mechanical actuation of the actuating member. 22. The grasping element of claim 21 wherein the grasping member is configured to passively capture the FIB-prepared sample. 23. The grasping element of claim 21 wherein the mechanical actuation is electro-thermal actuation. 24. The grasping element of claim 21 wherein the grasping member is a first one of a plurality of grasping members. 25. The grasping element of claim 24 wherein ones of the plurality of grasping members are substantially mirror images of one another. 26. The grasping element of claim 21 wherein the grasping member includes a first profile corresponding to a second profile of the FIB-prepared sample. 27. The grasping element of claim 26 wherein the first profile is substantially non-rectangular. 28. An apparatus, comprising: means for cutting a substrate with a focused ion beam (FIB) to at least partially sever a sample from the substrate; means for mechanically activating a grasping element to capture the substrate sample with the grasping element; and means for separating the captured sample from the substrate. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein at least a portion of at least one of the cutting means, activating means, and separating means is automated. 30. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising means positioning the grasping element proximate the substrate sample, wherein the positioning means is at least partially automated. 31. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising means for transporting the captured sample to an electron microscope, wherein the transporting means is at least partially automated. 32. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the activating means is configured to activate the grasping element to capture the substrate sample after the substrate sample has been only partially severed from the substrate, and the cutting means is configured to completely sever the partially severed substrate sample from the substrate while the partially severed sample is captured by the grasping element. 33. The apparatus of claim 32 wherein the cutting means is configured to completely sever the partially severed substrate sample by cutting a connection between the partially severed substrate sample and the substrate. 34. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein the cutting means is configured to cut the connection via FIB. 35. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the separating means is configured to reposition the captured sample relative to the substrate until a connection between the sample and the substrate is compromised. 36. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the activating means includes means for adjusting an amount of electrical power delivered to the grasping element to mechanically capture the substrate sample with the grasping element. 37. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the activating means includes means for switching between an electrically powered state and an electrically un-powered state to mechanically capture the substrate sample with the grasping element. 38. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the activating means includes means for increasing an amount of electrical power delivered to the grasping element to mechanically capture the substrate sample with the grasping element. 39. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the activating means includes means for substantially ceasing delivery of electrical power to the grasping element to mechanically capture the substrate sample with the grasping element. 40. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the activating means includes means for actuating the grasping element to mechanically open and close the grasping element. 41. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the actuating means includes electro-thermal actuating means operable to mechanically open and close the grasping element. 42. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the actuating means includes electrostatic actuating means operable to mechanically open and close the grasping element. 43. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the actuating means includes piezoelectric actuating means operable to mechanically open and close the grasping element. 44. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising the grasping element, wherein the grasping element includes a thermally activated end-effector, and wherein the activating means includes at least one of: means for heating at least a portion of the grasping element, the heating means operable to mechanically open and close the grasping element; and means for cooling at least a portion of the grasping element, the cooling means operable to mechanically open and close the grasping element. 45. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising means for examining the sample while the sample remains captured by the grasping element. 46. The apparatus of claim 28 further comprising means for examining the sample after the sample is released from the grasping element. 47. The apparatus of claim 46 further comprising means for manipulating the grasping element to position the sample on an examination grid prior to the examination of the sample. 48. The apparatus of claim 46 further comprising means for coupling the sample to an examination grid prior to the releasing the sample from the grasping element. 49. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the grasping element is a mechanically-actuated MEMS element. 50. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein the MEMS element comprises nickel. 51. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein the MEMS element comprises silicon. 52. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the activating means includes means for pressing the grasping element against the substrate sample. 53. The apparatus of claim 52 wherein the grasping element includes a malleable layer configured to interface with the substrate sample. 54. The apparatus of claim 53 wherein the malleable layer comprises gold. 55. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein: the cutting means includes means for cutting each of a plurality of samples at least partially from a substrate; and the separating means includes means for separating each of the plurality of samples from the substrate. 56. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the cutting means, the activating means, and the separating means are each configured for installation into a transmission electron microscope (TEM) and operation within the TEM. 57. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the cutting means, the activating means, and the separating means are each configured for installation into a scanning electron microscope (TEM) and operation within the SEM. 58. An apparatus, comprising: means for cutting a substrate with a focused ion beam (FIB) to at least partially sever a sample from the substrate; means for positioning an assembly tool proximate the sample, the assembly tool having a compression bond end-effector configured to capture the sample; means for applying a force on the sample through the compression bond end-effector, the force having sufficient magnitude to cause a compression bond to form between the compression bond end-effector and the sample, thereby capturing the sample; and means for separating the captured sample from the substrate. 59. The apparatus of claim 58 further comprising means for transporting the captured sample to an electron microscope. 60. The apparatus of claim 58 wherein the force applying means includes means for actuating an actuator to which the compression bond end-effector is coupled. 61. The apparatus of claim 60 wherein actuating includes electro-thermally activating. 62. The apparatus of claim 60 wherein actuating includes electro-statically activating. 63. An apparatus, comprising: means for cutting a substrate with a focused ion beam (FIB) to at least partially sever a sample from the substrate; means for capturing the substrate sample with a grasping element without activating the grasping element; and means for activating the grasping element to release the captured substrate sample from the grasping element. 64. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein the capturing means includes means for passively capturing the substrate sample with the grasping element. 65. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein the grasping element is configured to maintain a substantially constant temperature while the substrate sample is being captured with the grasping element. 66. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein the grasping element is configured to passively capture the substrate sample. 67. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein the grasping element is configured to passively capture the substrate sample in the substantial absence of electrical power delivered to the grasping element. 68. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein the capturing means includes means for capturing the substrate sample while the grasping element is in a non-activated state. 69. The apparatus of claim 63 wherein the capturing means includes means for capturing the substrate sample while substantially no electrical power is delivered to the grasping element. 