Unsupervised learning of object category from images is carried out by using an automatic image recognition system. A plurality of training images are automatically analyzed using an interest operator which produces an indication of features. Those features are clustered using a vector guantizer. The model is learned from the features using expectation maximization to assess a joint probability of which features are most relevant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: analyzing a plurality of images and automatically selecting a plurality of selected features in said plurality of images; reducing a number of said features by vector quantizing said automatically-detected features, and clustering among the vector-quantized features, wherein said clustering also includes moving said features to combine similar features which are spatially offset, said reducing forming a set of reduced features; automatically determining which of said reduced features will be used for a model, by classifying the image with a specific feature included and reclassifying the image without the feature included to form probabilities indicating whether the feature should be included and including features with higher probabilities in a model training feature set; automatically training a model for further recognition of said specified feature, using said model feature set; and using only those similar features to form a model. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein said automatically determining a model comprises probabilistically estimating which of the features are most informative for the model. 3. A method as in claim 2, wherein said automatically determining comprises assessing a joint probability function. 4. A method as in claim 3, wherein said joint probability function is estimated using expectation maximization. 5. A method as in claim 1, further comprising forming a model using a plurality of recognized parts. 6. A method, comprising: automatically analyzing an image to find features therein; grouping said features with other similar features to form clustered features; statistically analyzing said features using expectation maximization, to determine which of said clustered features are statistically most relevant, by classifying the image with a specific feature included and reclassifying the image without the specific feature included to form probabilities indicating the statistically most relevant features; forming a model using the statistically most relevant features; wherein said grouping features comprises vector quantizing said features and grouping similar quantized features; and wherein said grouping features further comprises spatially moving said features to group features which are different but spatially separated. 7. A method as in claim 6, wherein said automatically analyzing comprises using an interest operator on a plurality of images. 8. A method, comprising: automatically analyzing an image to find features therein; grouping said features with other similar features to form clustered features; statistically analyzing said clustered features using expectation maximization, to determine which of said clustered features are statistically most relevant, by automatically determining which of said clustered features will be used for a model, by classifying the image with a specific feature included and reclassifying the image without the feature included to form probabilities indicating whether the feature should be included as statistically most relevant features; and forming a model using the statistically most relevant features; wherein said grouping features further comprises spatially moving said features to group features which are different but spatially separated; and wherein said statistically analyzing comprises establishing a correspondence between homologous parts across the training set of images; and ignoring other features that are not in said set of homologous parts. 9. An article comprising: a machine-readable medium which stores machine-executable instructions, the instructions causing a machine to: automatically analyze a plurality of training images which includes a specified desired feature therein, to select a plurality of selected features; establish correspondence between homologous parts among said plurality of desired features in the plurality of training images to form a set of homologous parts; automatically determine which of said homologous parts will be used for a model, by classifying the image with a specific feature included and reclassifying the image without the feature included, to form probabilities indicating whether the feature should be included and including features with higher probabilities; and automatically form a model for further recognition of said features with higher probabilities. 10. An article as in claim 9, further comprising instructions to vector quantize said features to reduce the total number of detected features. 11. An article as in claim 9, wherein said automatically determining a model further comprising instructions to probabilistically estimate which of the features are most informative for the model. 12. An article as in claim 9, further comprising instructions to assemble a matrix of feature candidate positions indicating possible relevant parts, and statistically assess whether said relevant parts are likely to be useful. 13. A method as in claim 3, wherein said joint probability function is estimated using expectation maximization. 14. An article as in claim 9, further comprising instructions to form a model using a plurality of recognized parts. 15. An apparatus, comprising: a computer, forming: a plurality of feature detectors, reviewing images to detect parts in the images, some of those parts will correspond to the foreground as an instance of a target object class, and other parts not being an instance of the target object class, as part of the background; a hypothesis evaluation part, that evaluates candidate locations identified by said plurality of feature detectors, to determine the likelihood of a feature corresponding to an instance of said target object class; wherein said evaluation part operates by: defining the parts as part of a matrix; and assigning variables representing likelihood whether the parts in the matrix are from a foreground part or a background part by automatically determining which of said reduced features will be used for a model, classifying the image with a specific feature included and reshaping the image without the feature included to form probabilities indicating whether the feature should be included and including features with higher probabilities as foreground parts, and a model forming part, forming a model based on only said foreground parts. 16. An apparatus as in claim 15, further comprising: classifying the images into the classes of whether the object is present (c1) or whether the object is absent (c0) by choosing the class with a maximum a posteriori probability. 17. A method comprising: reviewing images to detect specified parts in the images; assigning a variable that defines some of those parts corresponding to the foreground as an instance of a target object class, and other parts not being an instance of the target object class, as part of the background, said assigning including evaluating candidate locations identified by a plurality of feature detectors, to determine the likelihood of a feature corresponding to an instance of said target object class; wherein said assigning comprises: defining the parts as part of a matrix; and assigning variables representing likelihood whether the parts in the matrix are from a foreground part or a background part by automatically determining which of said reduced features will be used for a model, by classifying the image with a specific feature included and reclassifying the image without the feature included to form probabilities indicating whether the feature should be included and including features with higher probabilities as foreground parts, and a model forming part, forming a model based on only said foreground parts. 18. A method as in claim 17, wherein said assigning comprises: classifying the images into the classes of whether the object is present or whether the object is absent by choosing the class with a maximum a posteriori probability. 