A combined cutter and slitter module for a wallpaper printer, the combined cutter and slitter module comprising: at least two end plates, a media web able to pass between the at least two end plates; at least two slitter rollers rotatably held between the at least two end plates, each of the slitter rollers provided with at least one cutting disk, each of the cutting disks located at different positions along the length of the at least two slitter rollers; a guide roller positioned to selectively engage with at least one cutting disk, the media web able to be passed between the guide roller and the at least one cutting disk; a drive motor to rotate the guide roller; a first actuating motor to selectively rotate the at least two slitter rollers and thereby selectively engage at least one cutting disk with the guide roller; a transverse cutter positioned along at least the width of the media web; and, a second actuating motor to force the transverse cutter against the media web.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combined cutter and slitter module for a printer, the combined cutter and slitter module comprising: at least two end plates, a media web able to pass between the at least two end plates; a rotating carousel of at least two slitter rollers rotatably held between the at least two end plates, each of the slitter rollers provided with at least one cutting disk, each of the cutting disks located at different positions along the length of the at least two slitter rollers; a guide roller positioned to selectively engage with the at least one cutting disk of one of the slitter rollers, the media web able to be passed between the guide roller and the at least one cutting disk; a drive motor to rotate the guide roller; a first actuating motor to selectively rotate the carousel so as to selectively engage the at least one cutting disk of a selected one of the slitter rollers with the guide roller; a transverse cutter positioned along at least the width of the media web; and, a second actuating motor to force the transverse cutter against the media web. 2. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, wherein the transverse cutter is fixed to the at least two end plates. 3. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, also including at least two entry rollers fixed between the at least two end plates. 4. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 3, wherein at least one of the entry rollers is powered. 5. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 4, wherein the drive motor also drives the at least one entry roller. 6. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least two slitter rollers are provided with two or more cutting disks. 7. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 6, wherein the position of at least one of the two or more cutting disks varies between each of the at least two slitter rollers. 8. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 6, wherein there are four slitter rollers. 9. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, wherein the guide roller is provided with circumferential recesses to engage the at least one cutting disk. 10. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least two slitter rollers are mounted on two brackets which are rotatably attached to the at least two endplates. 11. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 10, wherein a stabilizing shaft is provided between the two brackets. 12. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, also including at least two exit rollers fixed between the at least two end plates. 13. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 12, wherein at least one of the exit rollers is powered. 14. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 13, wherein the drive motor also drives the at least one exit roller. 15. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, wherein a blade of the cutter is mounted between a pair of rotating cams. 16. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printer prints a wallpaper pattern on to a media web to produce wallpaper. 17. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system for producing printed media web having a consumer selected print pattern printed on a media web, the printing system comprising: at least one media cartridge containing the media web; a printhead extending at least the width of the media web; first drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; at least one processor to receive and process the selected print pattern and to control printing of the selected print pattern, by the printhead, on the media web to produce the printed media web; and, second drive means to drive the printed media web onto a roller to be wound by a winding means. 18. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system for producing printed media web, the printing system using a cabinet, the cabinet comprising: a support adapted to hold at least one media cartridge, containing the media web, and to hold a printhead; at least one guide to direct the media web past the printhead; a further support adapted to hold at least one ink reservoir in fluid communication with the printhead; at least one module adapted to hold at least one processor; a user interface to forward user instructions to the at least one processor; a drying compartment to dry printed media web; and a receiving stage to receive printed media web onto a roller. 19. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a method of producing on-demand printed media web for sale to a consumer, the method including the steps of: providing a printing system for producing printed media web comprising: at least one media cartridge containing a blank media web; a printhead extending at least the width of the media web; at least one processor to control printing by the printhead of a print pattern on the blank media web to form the printed media web; an input device in communication with the at least one processor; and, the slitter module to cut the media web to a selected width; receiving, from the consumer via the input device, data indicating the consumer selected print pattern and width; printing the selected print pattern on the blank media web; cutting the printed media web according to the consumer selected width; and, charging the consumer. 20. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system including a drying system, the drying system comprising: an heating element provided within a first chamber; at least one fan positioned to force air past the heating element; the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through an opening into a second drying chamber; the second drying chamber receiving subsequent portions of a printed media web passed into the second drying chamber through the opening; and, at least one circulation duct provided to transfer at least a portion of the heated air from the second drying chamber to near the at least one fan. 21. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system having a composite heating system, the printing system passing a media web along a media path from a media cartridge, past a printhead, to a printed media web exit region, the composite heating system comprising: a first heating system, disposed between the media cartridge and the printhead, comprising a pre-heater; and, a second heating system, disposed between the printhead and the printed media web exit region, comprising: an heating element provided within a first chamber positioned on one side of the media web; at least one fan positioned to force air past the heating element; the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through an opening into a second heating chamber positioned on the other side of the media web; and, the second heating chamber receiving subsequent portions of the printed media web passed into the second heating chamber through the opening. 22. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a method of drying a printed media web in a printing system, the method including the steps of: passing a media web along a media path from a media cartridge, past a printhead, and over an opening; using at least one fan to force air past an heating element provided within a first chamber located on one side of the opening, the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through the opening into a second drying chamber located on the other side of the opening; and, driving the printed media web along the media path such that the printed media web extends from the media path, via the opening, into the second drying chamber which receives subsequent portions of the printed media web as the media web is driven along the media path. 23. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system, the system adapted to feed printed media web to a container, the printing system including a winding area adapted to receive the container, the container comprising: a casing able to be closed to envelope the printed media web; a core about which printed media web is wound; two support members that each associate with opposite distal ends of the core, the support members bearing the load of the printed media web against at least one interior surface of the casing; and, at least one of the support members including a hub which protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing, the hub adapted to engage with a drive spindle provided in the winding area of the printing system, the drive spindle rotating the hub which results in rotation of the core and consequent winding of the printed media web about the core. 24. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system, the system adapted to receive a media web from a media web cartridge for storing a media web, the printing system including a region to receive the media web cartridge and feed the media web past a printhead at least as wide as the width of the media web, the media web cartridge comprising: a casing which envelopes the media web; a fixed shaft about which the media web is wound and is free to rotate; two support members that each hold an opposite end of the shaft, the support members adapted to be supported by the casing and to prevent rotation of the shaft relative to the casing; at least two feed rollers to draw the media web from about the shaft and force the media web through an exit region of the casing; and, at least one of the feed rollers including a coupling which protrudes through an opening in an end of the casing and is adapted to engage with a drive spindle provided in the printing system, the drive spindle adapted to rotate the at least one feed roller. 25. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a wallpaper printing system for producing wallpaper, the wallpaper comprising: a media web; and, a wallpaper pattern printed on the media web by the wallpaper printing system; whereby, the wallpaper pattern is selected by a consumer using an input device of the printing system, and the wallpaper width is selected by a consumer using the input device; and, whereby, the printing system for producing the wallpaper comprises: at least one media cartridge containing a media web; a printhead extending at least the width of the media web; at least one processor to control printing by the printhead of the wallpaper pattern on the media web; the input device in communication with at least one processor; and, a slitter device to cut the wallpaper to the selected width. 26. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system having a printhead assembly, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module, the printhead module comprised of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged substantially along the length of the printhead module; a fluid channel member held within the casing adjacent the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts, fluid within each of the ducts being in fluid communication with each of the printhead tiles; and, each printhead tile including a printhead integrated circuit formed to dispense fluid, a printed circuit board to facilitate communication with a processor controlling the printing, and fluid inlet ports to receive fluid from the fluid channel member. 27. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a method of printing on-demand printed media web, the method comprising the steps of: receiving input data from a user which identifies a user selected print pattern; processing data associated with the print pattern to raster and compress the print pattern; transmitting the compressed print pattern data to a print engine controller; expanding and rendering the print pattern in the print engine controller; extracting a continuous blank media web from a media cartridge; driving the blank media web past a printhead controlled by the print engine controller using drive means; and, printing the user selected print pattern using the printhead which extends at least the width of the media web. 28. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printer having an ink fluid delivery system, the ink fluid delivery system comprising: a plurality of ink reservoirs associated in fluid communication with a plurality of ink fluid supply tubes; at least one ink fluid delivery connector attached to the plurality of ink fluid supply tubes; an ink fluid supply channel member associated in fluid communication with the at least one ink fluid delivery connector, the ink fluid supply channel member containing a plurality of ducts, at least one duct associated with at least one ink reservoir; the ink fluid supply channel member provided with a series of groups of outlet ports dispersed along the length of the ink fluid supply channel member; and, a series of printhead tiles forming a printhead, each printhead tile provided with a group of inlet ports aligned with a group of the outlet ports. 29. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system having at least one printhead tile, each of the printhead tiles comprising: a printhead integrated circuit including an array of ink nozzles; a channel layer provided adjacent the printhead integrated circuit, the channel layer provided with a plurality of channel layer slots; an upper layer provided adjacent the channel layer, the upper layer provided with an array of upper layer holes on a first side, and an array of upper layer channels on a second side, at least some of the upper layer holes in fluid communication with at least some of the upper layer channels, and at least some of the upper layer holes aligned with a channel layer slot; a middle layer provided adjacent the upper layer, the middle layer provided with a plurality of middle layer holes, at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with at least some of the upper layer channels; and, a lower layer provided adjacent the middle layer, the lower layer provided with an array of inlet holes on a first side, and an array of lower layer channels on a second side, at least one of the inlet holes in fluid communication with at least one of the lower layer channels, and at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with a lower layer channel; whereby, the inlet holes receive different types or colors of ink, each type or color of ink separately transported to different nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit. 30. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printing system having a printhead assembly with a communications module, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module; a fluid channel member positioned adjacent to the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts that substantially span the length of the printhead module; a power supply connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the power supply port electrically connected to at least one busbar that substantially spans the length of the printhead module; a fluid delivery connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the fluid delivery port in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, a data connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the data port electrically connected to at least one printed circuit board positioned within the casing, the at least one printed circuit board further electrically connected to the printhead module. 31. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printer provided with a micro-electro-mechanical printhead for producing printed media web, the printer comprising: a micro-electro-mechanical printhead extending at least the width of a media web; drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; at least one processor to receive and process a selected print pattern and to control printing of the print pattern, by the printhead, on the media web; the printhead including of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged along the length of the printhead; a fluid channel member adjacent the printhead; each printhead tile including a series of micro-electro-mechanical nozzle arrangements, each nozzle arrangement in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, each nozzle arrangement comprising: a nozzle chamber for holding fluid; a lever arm for forcing at least part of the fluid from the nozzle chamber; an actuator beam for distorting the lever arm; and, at least one electrode for receiving an electrical current that heats and expands the actuator beam. 32. The combined cutter and slitter module as claimed in claim 1, for use in a mobile printer for producing printed media web, the printer comprising: a vehicle adapted to hold and transport the printer; input means for a consumer to select a print pattern to be printed on a media web to form the printed media web; at least one media cartridge containing the media web; a printhead extending at least the width of the media web; drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; and, at least one processor to receive and process the selected print pattern and to control printing of the selected print pattern. 