A device for centrifugation and robotic manipulation of specimen samples, including incubating eggs, and uses thereof are provided. The device may advantageously be used for the incubation of avian, reptilian or any type of vertebrate eggs. The apparatus comprises a mechanism for holding samples individually, rotating them individually, rotating them on a centrifuge collectively, injecting them individually with a fixative or other chemical reagent, and maintaining them at controlled temperature, relative humidity and atmospheric composition. The device is applicable to experiments involving entities other than eggs, such as invertebrate specimens, plants, microorganisms and molecular systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples comprising: a housing defining an environment therein; at least one carousel rotatably coupled via a carousel drive subsystem to said housing through a first axis through said at least one carousel to enable an infinite number of inertial acceleration conditions within said environment; a plurality of sample holder assemblies, each of said sample holder assemblies having a respective longitudinal centroidal axis therethrough, coupled to said carousel and disposed at a distance from said first axis, each sample holder assembly rotatably coupled to said carousel via a sample turning subsystem for rotation about each of said respective longitudinal centroidal axes therethrough; and a control computer interfaced with said carousel drive subsystem and said sample turning subsystem and at least one output device, and driven by software that activates and deactivates said carousel drive subsystem and said sample turning subsystem at times and for durations and speeds defined by a user wherein said carousel drive subsystem further comprises a carousel base mounted to said housing and a carousel plate rotatably coupled to said carousel base by a drive mechanism. 2. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 1 wherein said carousel plate further comprises a hub disposed about a main drive gear, wherein said hub is connected to a periphery by a plurality of spokes. 3. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 2 wherein said hub portion interfaces said carousel base via a slip ring and said main drive gear. 4. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 3 wherein said periphery is mounted to said carousel base by a clamped bearing preventing out of plane rotation of said carousel plate. 5. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 4 wherein said main drive mechanism engages said main drive gear and imparts torque to said hub, said torque being transmitted to said periphery via said spokes thereby rotating said periphery about said first axis and imparting centripetal acceleration to said periphery. 6. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 5 wherein said torque rotates said periphery at speeds in the range of approximately 0 revolutions per minute to approximately 100 revolutions per minute. 7. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 1 wherein said plurality of sample holder assemblies are coupled to said carousel at said carousel plate. 8. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 7 wherein said sample turning subsystem further comprises a gear motor and mating gears coupled to each of said plurality of sample holder assemblies. 9. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 8 wherein each of said mating gears coupled to each of said plurality of sample holder assemblies are coupled such that each adjacent sample holder assembly of said plurality of sample holder assemblies are rotatable about said respective longitudinal centroidal axes upon rotation of a lead sample holder by said gear motor. 10. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 9 wherein each of said sample holder assemblies of said plurality of sample holder assemblies further comprises a sample isolator, a sample holder containing said sample isolator and an endcap assembly, a septum coupled to said endcap, a needle hole in said septum, a sample holder bearing with locking plate surrounding said sample holder, and a sample holder assembly bearing surrounding said sample holder bearing. 11. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 10 wherein said sample isolator further comprises an annular ring having a first surface and a second surface and at least two standoff legs for positioning said sample within said sample holder a predetermined distance away from said endcap assembly wherein said at least two standoff legs extend from said first surface said annular ring at connection points defined from a reference origin at approximately 0 degrees and approximately 180 degrees about a perimeter of said annular ring, each of said at least two standoff legs extending in a first radial direction from said annular ring. 12. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 11 wherein said sample isolator further comprises at least two resiliently opposed sidearms having an inner surface and an outer surface extending from said second surface of said annular ring in a second direction from said annular ring opposite said first direction. 13. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 12 wherein said at least two resiliently opposed sidearms are located at approximately 90 degrees and approximately 270 degrees from said reference origin about said perimeter of said annular ring. 14. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 12 wherein said sidearms further comprise pads attached to said inner surface of said sidearms for resiliently engaging a sample therebetween. 15. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 10 wherein said sample holder further comprises an open cylindrical body defining an interior environment and having a first end and a second end and a cylindrical surface therearound defining a sample holder diameter, and having at least one opening through said cylindrical surface and O-rings fitted around said opening to provide gas exchange between said sample and said interior environment when said sample holder is open, and to seal said interior environment when said sample holder is closed. 16. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 15 wherein said sidearms further comprise pads attached to said outer surface of said sidearms for engaging said cylindrical surface in said interior environment. 17. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 10 wherein said endcap assembly further comprises an endcap having locking tabs extending from a perimeter thereof, and having an upper surface and a lower surface and a hydrophobic vent therethrough, wherein said lower surface comprises a disc with air channels therein, at least one O-ring at a perimeter of said lower surface of said endcap and at least one hydrophobic membrane for sealingly engaging said lower surface of said endcap to said first end of said sample holder upon engaging said locking tabs into mating openings in said sample holder. 18. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 15 wherein said sample holder bearing further comprises an open cylindrical body having a first end and a second end and a cylindrical surface therearound defining a sample holder bearing diameter, said sample holder bearing diameter being greater than said sample holder diameter, and wherein said cylindrical surface engages said O-rings for sealing said sample holder. 19. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 15 wherein said locking plate has an upper surface and a lower surface and a diameter greater than said sample holder diameter and wherein said lower surface receives said endcap assembly. 20. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 19 wherein said locking plate is mounted to said sample holder bearing allowing said sample holder to rotate within said sample holder bearing. 21. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 15 wherein said sample holder assembly bearing further comprises an annular member having a cylindrical surface defining an inner diameter and further comprising mounting tabs extending radially from said cylindrical surface. 22. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 21 wherein said mounting tabs are coupled to said carousel plate. 23. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 21 wherein said cylindrical surface of said sample holder assembly bearing receives said cylindrical body of said sample holder and allows said sample holder to rotate within said cylindrical surface. 24. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises a chemical process system for conducting procedures on said samples. 25. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 24 wherein said chemical process system further comprises an injection reservoir, an injection pump coupled to said injection reservoir, and an injection head coupled to said injection pump. 26. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 25 wherein said injection head is mounted to said carousel base. 27. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 25 wherein said injection reservoir further comprises a flexible container of liquid surrounded by a solid container. 28. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 25 wherein said injection pump is a peristaltic pump controlled by a stepper motor with programmable controls. 29. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 25 wherein said injection head further comprises a stepper motor, a lead screw coupled to said stepper motor, a needle carrier connected to said lead screw, a needle mounted to said needle carrier, and a locking plate having a needle hole therein and O-rings located on either side of said needle hole, said locking plate being slidably coupled to said injection head. 30. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 29 wherein a first switch and a second switch are coupled to said injection head to detect positions of said carousel plate. 31. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 30 wherein a third switch and a fourth switch are coupled to said injection head to contact said bottom of said sample holder bearing. 32. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 31 wherein a fifth switch is coupled to said injection head to detect a needle extended situation wherein said injection needle is fully extended. 33. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 32 wherein a sixth switch is coupled to said injection head to detect a needle and locking plate retracted condition wherein said injection needle and said injection locking plate are fully retracted. 34. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 33 wherein said control computer determines a desired sample holder of said plurality of sample holders to locate over said injection head, causes rotation of said carousel plate to cease, receives index information from said first switch and said second switch, determines said index information for said desired sample holder, activates said stepper motor to index said desired sample holder adjacent said injection head, and locks said desired sample holder into position. 35. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 34 wherein said stepper motor drives said lead screw, thereby driving said needle carrier toward said sample holder, wherein said engagement plate travels concurrently therewith. 36. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 35 wherein said third switch and said fourth switch actuate to cease travel of said needle carrier upon full engagement of said locking plate with said sample holder. 37. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 36 wherein said gear motor rotates said sample holder bearing to close said sample holder within said sample holder bearing and expose said hydrophobic membrane while said injection head holds said sample holder stationary. 38. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 37 wherein said third switch disengages upon detecting a cutout in said egg holder bearing. 39. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 38 wherein said injection head indexes said injection needle through said needle hole in said septum into said sample. 40. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 39 wherein said fifth switch indicates needle engagement by actuating against said needle carrier. 41. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 40 wherein said injection pump activates upon needle engagement. 42. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 41 wherein said stepper motor activates to turn said sample holder bearing to close said hydrophobic membrane. 43. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 42 wherein said fourth switch detects a closed condition, thereby activating said stepper motor to retract said needle into said locking plate and retract said locking plate from said sample holder, thereby returning said needle hole to a sealed position between said two O-rings in said locking plate. 44. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 43 wherein said sixth switch indicates that said needle and said locking plate are fully retracted, thus sending a signal to said control computer to allow said carousel plate to freely rotate. 45. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises a humidity control system comprising a moisture delivery system and a moisture removal system and a humidity sensor. 46. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 45 wherein said moisture delivery system further comprises a reservoir for holding water, a sponge within said environment, and flexible tubing coupling said flexible reservoir to said sponge via a pump. 47. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 46 wherein said pump is activated to dispense water from said reservoir to said sponge when said humidity sensor detects a humidity level below a predetermined lower humidity set point. 48. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 45 wherein said moisture removal system further comprises a desiccant canister having an entrance and an exit, a pump having a pump entrance and a pump exit wherein said pump entrance is open to said environment and wherein said pump exit is coupled to said entrance of said desiccant canister. 49. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 48 wherein said exit of said desiccant canister further comprises a check valve. 50. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 49 wherein said pump is activated to pull air from said environment into said pump entrance when said humidity sensor detects a humidity level above a predetermined upper humidity set point. 51. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises an atmospheric control system. 52. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 51 wherein said atmospheric control system further comprises an oxygen control system. 53. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 52 wherein said oxygen control system further comprises an air tank containing air, an oxygen sensor to monitor oxygen concentration in said environment, and a solenoid valve connected to said air tank via tubing and to said control computer. 54. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 53 wherein said solenoid valve operates to add a burst of oxygen into said environment upon receiving a signal from said computer controller when said oxygen sensor detects an oxygen concentration below a predetermined set point. 55. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 54 wherein said atmospheric control system further comprises a carbon dioxide system. 56. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 55 wherein said carbon dioxide system further comprises a canister containing lithium hydroxide, a pump connected to said canister, and a carbon dioxide sensor to monitor carbon dioxide concentration in said environment. 57. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 56 wherein said pump activates when said carbon dioxide sensor detects a level of carbon dioxide in said air that is above a predetermined set point, and then draws said air from said environment into said canister whereby said lithium hydroxide converts carbon dioxide present in said air into solid lithium carbonate and water, and then discharges treated air back into said environment. 58. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises a thermal control system. 59. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 58 wherein said thermal control system further comprises at least one heat exchanger within said environment, a temperature sensor within said environment, a plurality of fans within said environment, and at least one exhaust opening through said housing, said at least one heat exchanger, temperature sensor, and plurality of fans coupled to said control computer to activate upon said temperature sensor detecting a temperature outside a predetermined range of acceptable temperatures within said environment. 60. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 1 wherein said apparatus further comprises a fire suppression system. 61. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 60 wherein said fire suppression system further comprises a holder for at least one pressurized carbon dioxide cartridge, a lever rotatably mounted to said holder in cooperation with a cam, said cam actuating a self-sealing penetrator upon rotation of said lever that penetrates said pressurized carbon dioxide canister thereby releasing contents into said environment. 62. The apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples of claim 60 wherein said fire suppression system further comprises a holder for at least one pressurized carbon dioxide cartridge in an environment containing electronic components, a lever rotatably mounted to said holder in cooperation with a cam, said cam actuating a self-sealing penetrator upon rotation of said lever that penetrates said pressurized carbon dioxide canister thereby releasing contents into said environment. 63. An apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples comprising: a housing defining an environment therein; at least one carousel rotatably coupled via a carousel drive subsystem to said housing through a first axis through said at least one carousel to enable an infinite number of inertial acceleration conditions within said environment; a plurality of sample holder assemblies, each of which having a respective longitudinal centroidal axis therethrough, coupled to said carousel and disposed at a distance from said first axis, each sample holder assembly rotatably coupled to said carousel via a sample turning subsystem for rotation about each of said respective longitudinal centroidal axes therethrough; and a control computer interfaced with said carousel drive subsystem and said sample turning subsystem and at least one output device, and driven by software that activates and deactivates said carousel drive subsystem and said sample turning subsystem at times and for durations and speeds defined by a user; wherein said housing further comprises two levels of sealed containment and wherein electronic signals are passed through said two levels of sealed containment from an external connector to a circuit board thence along conductors printed on said circuit board thence to an internal connector having terminals electrically coupled thereto and connected to said conductors, said terminals being attached at through-holes in said circuit board and said through-holes sealed within the internal volume by a panel and two pairs of captured O-rings, thereby providing two levels of containment for vapors, liquids and solids. 64. An apparatus for centrifugation and manipulation of samples comprising: a housing defining an environment therein; at least one carousel rotatably coupled via a carousel drive subsystem to said housing through a first axis through said at least one carousel to enable an infinite number of inertial acceleration conditions within said environment; a plurality of sample holder assemblies, each of which having a respective longitudinal centroidal axis therethrough, coupled to said carousel and disposed at a distance from said first axis, each sample holder assembly rotatably coupled to said carousel via a sample turning subsystem for rotation about each of said respective longitudinal centroidal axes therethrough; and a control computer interfaced with said carousel drive subsystem and said sample turning subsystem and at least one output device, and driven by software that activates and deactivates said carousel drive subsystem and said sample turning subsystem at times and for durations and speeds defined by a user; wherein said housing further comprises a hydrophobic membrane subsystem and a neutralizing housing, said hydrophobic membrane subsystem further comprising a primary hydrophobic membrane that contains liquid and solid materials and a secondary hydrophobic membrane located at an entrance to said neutralizing housing, and wherein said neutralizing housing provides redundant containment of liquid and solid materials and further neutralizes vapors being vented from said environment. 