A sensor device for examining the surfaces of a work piece, in particular in regard to burrs, is provided wherein said device comprises a probe shaft having a detector head with at least one inductive element, wherein said at least one inductive element couples inductively to the work piece, and wherein the at least one inductive element is constructed and arranged in such a manner that, with respect to a longitudinal axis of the probe shaft, the detector head has a field of view surrounding the probe shaft.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A sensor device for the examination of the surfaces of a work piece, comprising: a probe shaft having a detector head with at least one inductive element adapted to inductively couple to the work piece; wherein said at least one inductive element is constructed and arranged such that the detector head has a field of view surrounding the probe shaft with regard to the longitudinal axis of the probe shaft, the field of view comprising a plurality of sight directions transverse to the longitudinal direction of the probe shaft. 2. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the coupling of the detector head to the work piece is dependent on the distance between the detector head and the work piece. 3. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the distance between the work piece and the detector head is determinable in non-contact-making manner. 4. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the detector head is in the form of a distance detector comprising one or more distance sensors. 5. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element is constructed and arranged in such a manner that the distance to the work piece is determinable in radial directions. 6. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element is arranged on a roll core. 7. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the field of view around the detector head extends over a range of 360.degree.. 8. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the field of view is substantially rotationally symmetrical with respect to the longitudinal axis of the sensor shaft. 9. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element produces an electromagnetic field which is effective about the detector head in all transverse directions taken with respect to the longitudinal direction of the probe shaft. 10. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic field around the detector head is continuously interconnected. 11. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the field of view around the detector head is continuously interconnected. 12. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein an active surface of the detector head via which the detector head is coupled to the work piece comprises a circumferential surface of the detector head. 13. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element is constructed and arranged in such a manner that a field of view extends forwardly from a distal end of the probe shaft. 14. A sensor device in accordance with claim 13, wherein the forward field of view has a sight direction substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the probe shaft. 15. A sensor device in accordance with claim 13, wherein an active surface, via which the detector head is coupled to the work piece, at least partly comprises an end face of the detector head. 16. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the detector head is arranged in the area of a distal end of the probe shaft. 17. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the detector head forms the distal end of the probe shaft. 18. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element is in the form of a toroidal coil. 19. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element is arranged on a core. 20. A sensor device in accordance with claim 6, wherein a longitudinal axis of the roll core is aligned substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the probe shaft. 21. A sensor device in accordance with claim 6, wherein a coil axis of said at least one inductive element is substantially coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the roll core. 22. A sensor device in accordance with claim 6, wherein the roll core comprises an active rim which is oriented towards one end of the detector head or forms an end of the detector head. 23. A sensor device for the examination of the surfaces of a work piece, comprising: a probe shaft having a detector head with at least one inductive element arranged on a roll core and adapted to inductively couple to the work piece; wherein: the at least one inductive element is constructed and arranged such that the detector head has a field of view surrounding the probe shaft with regard to the longitudinal axis of the probe shaft, the roll core comprises an active rim oriented towards one end of the detector head or forming an end of the detector head, and the roll core comprises a passive rim which is located opposite the active rim. 24. A sensor device in accordance with claim 23, wherein the field of view comprises a plurality of sight directions transverse to the longitudinal direction of the probe shaft. 25. A sensor device in accordance with claim 23, wherein the passive rim is at least partly metallized. 26. A sensor device in accordance with claim 23, wherein the passive rim carries at least a part of an evaluating circuit. 27. A sensor device in accordance with claim 6, wherein the inductive element is encapsulated on the roll core. 28. A sensor device in accordance with claim 19, wherein the core is made of an electrically non-conductive material. 29. A sensor device in accordance with claim 19, wherein the core is made of an electrically conductive material. 30. A sensor device in accordance with claim 29, wherein the core is used as an electrode for the purposes of determining the distance capacitively. 31. A sensor device in accordance with claim 19, wherein a screen is provided for the core. 32. A sensor device in accordance with claim 31, wherein the screen surrounds the core. 33. A sensor device in accordance with claim 31, wherein the screen is substantially rotationally symmetrical with a symmetry break. 34. A sensor device in accordance with claim 33, wherein the symmetry break is produced by means of a slit in the screen. 35. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the detector head comprises a single inductive element in the form of a field-generating element. 36. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein a plurality of inductive elements are arranged in the detector head. 37. A sensor device in accordance with claim 36, wherein a plurality of inductive elements distributed around the longitudinal axis of the probe shaft are arranged in the detector head. 38. A sensor device in accordance with claim 37, wherein the respective inductive elements are arranged on a pot core. 39. A sensor device in accordance with claim 36, wherein at least one inductive element for providing a forward field of view is arranged in the detector head. 40. A sensor device in accordance with claim 39, wherein said at least one inductive element is arranged on a pot core. 41. A sensor device in accordance with claim 39, wherein said at least one inductive element is arranged on a mushroom core. 42. A sensor device in accordance with claim 39, wherein said at least one inductive element is arranged on an I-core. 43. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein there is provided a flange portion for fixing the sensor device. 44. A sensor device in accordance with claim 43, wherein the length of the probe shaft is adjustable with respect to the flange portion. 45. A sensor device in accordance with claim 43, wherein an evaluating circuit is arranged in at least one of the flange piece and in the probe shaft. 46. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the length of the probe shaft is at least ten times greater than the diameter thereof. 47. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element is integrated into a Q-circuit. 48. A sensor device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said at least one inductive element is integrated into a bridge circuit. 49. A sensor device for the examination of the surfaces of a work piece, comprising: a probe shaft having a detector head with at least one inductive element adapted to inductively couple to the work piece; wherein: the at least one inductive element is constructed and arranged such that the detector head has a field of view surrounding the probe shaft with regard to the longitudinal axis of the probe shaft, and a deburring tool is arranged on the probe shaft. 