A cassette stocker includes a plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned adjacent a cleanroom wall and vertically disposed relative to a plurality of cassette docking stations, and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations. An interstation transfer apparatus includes a support beam and a transfer arm adapted to carry a cassette between processing stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fabrication system, comprising: a first processing station adapted to perform a process on a substrate, the first processing station having a first docking station, a first frame, a plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the first frame and positioned above the first docking station, a second docking station positioned above the first docking station, and a cassette mover mounted on the first frame to carry a cassette among the plurality of shelves and the first and second docking stations; a second processing station adapted to perform a process on a substrate, the second processing station having a third docking station, a second frame, a plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the second frame and positioned above the third docking station, a fourth docking station positioned above the third docking station and a cassette mover mounted on the second frame to carry a cassette between the plurality of shelves and the third and fourth docking stations; and an interstation cassette mover adapted to transport a cassette between the first processing station and the second processing station. 2. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the first processing station performs a first fabrication step. 3. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second processing stations is a metrology system. 4. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the shelves and the first and second docking stations of the first processing station are arranged in vertical columns, the shelves and the third and fourth docking stations of the second processing station are arranged in vertical columns, and the interstation cassette mover transports a cassette between a topmost shelf of each of the first and second processing stations. 5. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the interstation cassette mover includes a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path parallel to a cleanroom wall, and an end effector configured to engage a cassette, the end effector adapted to move vertically relative to the support member. 6. The fabrication system of claim 5, wherein the interstation cassette mover further includes a supporting part mounted between the plurality of cassette storage shelves of the first processing station and the plurality of cassette storage shelves of the second processing station, and wherein the supporting member is movably mounted on the supporting part. 7. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the interstation cassette mover includes: a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path parallel to a cleanroom wall; an end effector configured to engage a cassette and adapted to move vertically relative to the support member; and a supporting part mounted between the respective frames of the first and second processing stations, the support member being movably mounted on the supporting part. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an upper one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open upwardly, and a lower one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open downwardly. 9. A fabrication system, comprising: a first processing station adapted to perform a process on a substrate, the first processing station having a first docking station, a first frame, a plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the first frame and positioned above the first docking station, a second docking station, and a cassette mover mounted on the first frame to carry a cassette among the plurality of shelves and the first and second docking stations; a second processing station adapted to perform a process on a substrate, the second processing station having a third docking station, a second frame, a plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the second frame and positioned above the third docking station, a fourth docking station, and a cassette mover mounted on the second frame to carry a cassette between the plurality of shelves and the third and fourth docking stations; and an interstation cassette mover adapted to transport a cassette between the first processing station and the second processing station. 10. The fabrication system of claim 9, wherein the first processing station performs a first fabrication step. 11. The fabrication system of claim 9, wherein at least one of the first and second processing stations is a metrology system. 12. The fabrication system of claim 9, wherein the shelves and the first and second docking stations of the first processing station are arranged in vertical columns, the shelves and the third and fourth docking stations of the second processing station are arranged in vertical columns, and the interstation cassette mover transports a cassette between a topmost shelf of each of the first and second processing stations. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein an upper one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open upwardly, and a lower one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open downwardly. 14. The fabrication system of claim 9, wherein the interstation cassette mover includes a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path parallel to a cleanroom wall, and an end effector configured to engage a cassette, the end effector adapted to move vertically relative to the support member. 15. The fabrication system of claim 14, wherein the interstation cassette mover further includes a supporting part mounted between the plurality of cassette storage shelves of the first processing station and the plurality of cassette storage shelves of the second processing station, and wherein the supporting member is movably mounted on the supporting part. 16. The fabrication system of claim 9, wherein the interstation cassette mover includes: a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path parallel to a cleanroom wall; an end effector configured to engage a cassette and adapted to move vertically relative to the support member; and a supporting part mounted between the respective frames of the first and second processing stations, the support member being movably mounted on the supporting part. 