An interior rearview mirror assembly for a vehicle includes a reflective element and a casing. An attachment plate is secured to the reflective element and an electronic circuitry element, such as a printed circuit board, is attached to the attachment plate. The attachment plate includes at least one mounting member protruding through the circuit board for engaging a mounting assembly that mounts the mirror assembly to an interior portion of the vehicle and directly supports the attachment plate, along with the printed circuit board and the reflective element at an end of the mounting assembly. The mounting assembly may comprise a toggle assembly for a prismatic reflective element.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An interior rearview mirror assembly for a vehicle, said interior rearview mirror assembly comprising: a reflective element, said reflective element comprising a prismatic reflective element; a mounting assembly that is configured to mount said mirror assembly to an interior portion of the vehicle, said mounting assembly including a toggle portion and a cam actuator; an attachment plate secured to said reflective element; an electronic circuitry element attached to said attachment plate, said attachment plate including at least one mounting member protruding at least partially through said electronic circuitry element when said electronic circuitry element is attached to said attachment plate; wherein a portion of said mounting assembly engages said at least one mounting member; and wherein said at least one mounting member comprises a first mounting member protruding at least partially through said electronic circuitry element and a second mounting member protruding at least partially through said electronic circuitry element, wherein said portion of said mounting assembly comprises a portion of said toggle portion, said portion of said toggle portion pivotally engaging said first mounting member protruding at least partially through said electronic circuitry element. 2. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said first mounting member comprises a pair of receiving members for pivotally receiving respective portions of said toggle portion. 3. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said cam actuator pivotally engages said second mounting member. 4. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 3, wherein said cam actuator engages said mounting assembly. 5. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 4, wherein said cam actuator includes a receiving portion that receives a guide portion of said toggle portion. 6. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1 including an accessory pod attached to said mounting assembly. 7. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 6, wherein said accessory pod comprises a compass pod receiving compass circuitry therein. 8. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 6, wherein said accessory pod includes circuitry therein, said circuitry being electrically connected to said electronic circuitry element. 9. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 6, wherein said accessory pod comprises a unitarily formed pod that receives circuitry therein and closes to substantially retain said circuitry within said pod. 10. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a circuit board. 11. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 10, wherein said circuit board comprises a substantially rigid circuit board. 12. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 10, wherein said circuit board comprises a flexible circuit board. 13. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 1, wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a printed circuit board. 14. An interior rearview mirror assembly for a vehicle, said interior rearview mirror assembly comprising: a reflective element; a mounting assembly that is configured to mount said mirror assembly to an interior portion of the vehicle, said mounting assembly including a toggle portion for pivoting said reflective element relative to the interior portion of the vehicle; an attachment plate secured to said reflective element; an electronic circuitry element attached to said attachment plate, said attachment plate including at least one mounting member protruding at least partially through said electronic circuitry element when said electronic circuitry element is attached to said attachment plate; and wherein a portion of said toggle portion adjustably engages said at least one mounting member. 15. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 14, wherein said at least one mounting member comprises a pair of receiving members for pivotally receiving respective portions of said toggle portion. 16. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 14, wherein said reflective element comprises a prismatic reflective element. 17. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 14, wherein said mounting assembly includes a cam actuator. 18. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 17, wherein said cam actuator pivotally engages a respective portion of said at least one mounting member. 19. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 18, wherein said cam actuator engages said mounting assembly. 20. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 19, wherein said cam actuator includes a receiving portion that receives a guide portion of said toggle portion. 21. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 14 including an accessory pod attached to said mounting assembly. 22. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 21, wherein said accessory pod comprises a compass pod receiving compass circuitry therein. 23. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 21, wherein said accessory pod includes circuitry therein, said circuitry being electrically connected to said electronic circuitry element. 24. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 21, wherein said accessory pod comprises a unitarily formed pod that receives circuitry therein and closes to substantially retain said circuitry within said pod. 25. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 14, wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a circuit board. 26. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 25, wherein said circuit board comprises a substantially rigid circuit board. 27. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 25, wherein said circuit board comprises a flexible circuit board. 28. The interior rearview mirror assembly of claim 14, wherein said electronic circuitry element comprises a printed circuit board. 