Systems and methods for calculating a modification of a geometrical shape by applying an inverse modification function to an array representing the shape. An array representing the geometrical shape is defined on a multi-dimensional space. A modification function is used to modify the geometrical shape. A user or a programmed computer can select the modification function. The computer applies an inverse of the modification function to the array. The computer deduces a change in the geometrical shape from the modified array. An advantage of the system and method is the ability to compute shape changes in certain situations where a direct computation is cumbersome or otherwise inconvenient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of modifying a geometrical shape, the method comprising the steps of: representing a geometrical shape as an array of values; selecting a modification function that represents a desired modification to be applied to the geometrical shape; applying an inverse of the modification function to the array of values so as to produce a modified array that would result from direct application of the modification function, thereby modifying the geometrical shape. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of displaying to a user the modified geometrical shape. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the modification function comprises a soft-edged deformation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the selecting step and the applying step is performed using a virtual tool. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the geometrical shape is displaced away from the virtual tool. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the geometrical shape is displaced toward the virtual tool. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the modification function represents a warping function. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the modification function represents a smoothing function. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the modification function comprises a member of the group consisting of a displacement function, a volumetric interference, an areal interference, a result of a simulation, a data re-fitting, and a force. 10. A method of modifying a geometrical shape, the method comprising the steps of: representing a geometrical shape as an array of values; specifying a first region of the array for application of a modification function; defining a scratch buffer region comprising values corresponding to values of the array, wherein the corresponding values of the array are identified by applying an inverse of the modification function to the array; and replacing the first region of the array with the scratch buffer region, thereby modifying the geometric shape. 11. A method of warping a geometrical shape, the method comprising the steps of: representing a geometrical shape as an array of values; specifying a first region of the array for application of a warp function; defining a scratch buffer region comprising values corresponding to values of the array, wherein the corresponding values of the array are identified by applying an inverse of the warp function to the array; and replacing the first region of the array with the scratch buffer region, thereby warping the geometric shape. 