A weather resistant modular sensor and computing platform reduces costs and enhances versatility of sensor systems. Rapidly evolving electronic technology results in hyper-obsolescence wherein sensor systems that are state of the art technology when designed, fall behind the art quickly as new transducers, batteries and components are developed. A cylindrical shaped modular system provides an architecture for up-grading sensors, batteries, special modules, communications, and control. A modular architecture extends the life cycle of a system and avoids hyper-obsolescence and the requirement to design a complete new system to incorporate new technology. Modularity and low cost manufacturing methods enable the practical definition of a cylindrical computer. The cylinder shaped enclosures have on their ends a common connection interface to which modules may be added. This provides a long system life cycle and wide ranging versatility. The size of the platform is not restricted. Larger systems are capable of supporting more sophisticated processing. A scaled up version of the modular platform provides an outdoor weather resistant community computing server.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular computer architecture comprising a plurality of scalable weather resistant computer platforms interconnected to operate as a digital grid connecting multiple processors and peripheral nodes within a neighborhood, wherein each weather resistant computer platform comprises a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus. 2. The modular computer architecture of claim 1 wherein said digital grid executes a multi-processor operating system transforming said digital grid into a supercomputer capacity utility connected to users to provide digital services to residential digital devices and whereby upgraded capacity can be obtained by installing more servers on said digital grid. 3. The modular computer architecture of claim 1 comprising wireless high speed access points to provide convenient locations throughout said neighborhood where high speed wireless service is available from said communications servers. 4. The modular computer architecture of claim 1 wherein residential computing capacity is installed to interface residential digital services with neighborhood digital servers. 5. The modular computer architecture of claim 1 wherein said architecture is connected using media types selected from the group consisting of fiber optics, infrared signaling, coaxial cable, twisted pair, wireless, and lasers. 6. The modular computer architecture of claim 1 wherein said scalable platforms are structured to meet a mission specific functionality by configuring modules on platforms to apply resources required as needed. 7. The modular computer architecture of claim 6, wherein said mission specific functionality is a data storage platform. 8. The modular computer architecture of claim 6, wherein said mission specific functionality is a multi-processor platform. 9. The modular computer architecture of claim 6, wherein said mission specific functionality is a wireless access platform. 10. The modular computer architecture of claim 6, wherein said mission specific functionality is an external networks communications interface server providing protocol conversion and connections to networks and resources external to said grid. 11. A modular computer platform, comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, wherein the internal circuit boards comprise a stack of circular circuit boards, each circular circuit board comprising a center circular void wherein said stack provides a center passage in said stack, and wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant. 12. A modular computer platform according to claim 11 further comprising a hollow post passing through said center passage for adding support to said stack of said boards. 13. A modular computer platform according to claim 11 further comprising lenses configured for optical focusing of light onto sensors. 14. A modular computer platform according to claim 11 further comprising a hollow support post with signal transfer bus tracks to connect circuitry on said circuit boards wherein said circuit boards are in contact via signal contacts on a periphery of said center circular void. 15. A modular computer platform according to claim 14 wherein said signal transfer tracks are comprised of superconducting material and liquid nitrogen is circulated through said hollow support post for cooling said tracks to superconducting temperatures. 16. A modular computer platform according to claim 11 further comprising a telescoping antenna within said center passage. 17. A modular computer platform according to claim 11 further comprising a laser beam operation space in said passage. 18. A sensor platform operating under water comprising: a modular computer platform comprising a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant and is submerged under water; and a radio frequency transmission line extending from said modular computer platform out of said water onto dry land and terminating at an antenna, wherein said modular computer platform sends radio frequency messages to receivers over said transmission line. 19. The sensor platform of claim 18 further comprising a power generator for developing electrical power, wherein said power generator is driven by torque from a propeller, said propeller being rotated by water current. 20. A modular computer platform according to claim 11, said circular circuit boards comprising protruding contacts on the perimeter of said boards, said stack being wrapped with a flexible circuit board comprising precise openings that are aligned to provide a point where said protruding contacts pass through said openings and make electrical contact between the said circular circuit boards protruding contacts and electrical contacts on said flexible circuit board and thereby provide electrical connectivity among said stack of circular circuit boards. 21. A modular computer platform according to claim 20 wherein said flexible circuit boards comprise mounted electronic components. 22. A modular computer platform, comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, wherein the internal circuit boards comprise a stack of hex-shaped circuit boards comprising hex-shaped circuit boards wherein contacts protrude from the perimeter of said boards and said stack is wrapped with a combination of flexible joints and rigid circuit boards whereby a wrapper is provided for the hex shaped circuit board wherein said hex circuit boards flat rigid parts of said wrapper rest on a flat part of said hex boards and said flex joints are comprised to allow the rigid portion of the wrapper to fold around a corner of said hex board, and aligned contacts protruding from said hex boards penetrate openings in said wrapper and join circuitry from said rigid boards on the wrapper with said hex shaped wrapper, and wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant. 23. A modular computer platform, comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, wherein the bus comprises a flat ribbon of transparent material terminated on both ends with a light absorbent material to reduce reflections, and a surface coating of reflective material on said flat ribbon's non-connector side to enhance reflections, said ribbon comprising v-shaped notches along the ribbon length, said v-shaped notches being in place to mate with v-shaped probes made of transparent material fitted into said notches to absorb light signals traveling on said bus and also to project light signals onto said bus, and wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant. 24. A modular computer platform, comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, and a video camera which is remotely controlled over a network by a user, and said video camera is enclosed in a transparent enclosure module, wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant. 25. A modular computer platform, comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant, and wherein a sponsor may stay in contact with the modular computer platform and the platform reaches a first hop connectivity point through satellite, radio, or land line. 26. A modular computer platform according to claim 25, wherein said platform has a cylindrical shape. 27. A modular computer platform according to claim 25, said platform having a unique binary coded address to which the platform will respond when addressed electronically. 28. A modular computer platform according to claim 25, said platform comprising a communication module that can be delivered by radio frequency, ultrasonic, laser, or infrared light. 29. A modular computer platform according to claim 25, wherein the plurality of modules may include a module selected from the group consisting of communications modules, memory modules, amplifier modules, low power receiver modules, specialized antenna modules, platform container modules, impact shock absorption containment modules, video collection modules, underwater power generation modules, ultrasonic, sound, GPS, seismic, smoke detection, chemical detection, gas detection, radiation detection module, intelligent munitions, or control modules. 30. A modular computer platform according to claim 25, wherein the internal circuit boards comprise micro-controllers, memory, amplifiers, switches, digitally controlled potentiometers, spread spectrum communications circuits, encryption, oscillators, frequency synthesizers or crystals. 31. A utility pole comprising a modular computer platform, comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, and wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant. 32. A utility pole according to claim 31, wherein said modular computer platform comprises a disk drive module for storage and an operating system to provide services to terminals or personal computers in nearby buildings or residences. 33. A utility pole according to claim 31, wherein said modular computer platform comprises an external connection interface module that provides media to computer users. 34. A utility pole according to claim 31, wherein said modular computer platform is interfaced with telephone services, cable services, or electrical power. 35. A utility pole according to claim 31, wherein said modular computer platform is networked with cable systems to acquire broadband communications. 36. A utility pole according to claim 32, wherein said modular computer platform provides services to residences. 37. A utility pole according to claim 32, wherein said services comprise word processing, spread sheet, database, communications, and entertainment services. 38. A utility pole according to claim 32, wherein said services comprise internet services. 39. A utility pole according to claim 32, wherein said residences are connected to the modular computer platform by fiber optic cable, twisted pair, or coaxial cable. 40. A utility pole according to claim 39, wherein said residences are connected to the modular computer platform by twisted pair cable. 41. A utility pole according to claim 32, wherein said residences are connected to the modular computer platform by a wireless connection. 42. A utility pole according to claim 32, wherein said residences are connected to the modular computer platform by a laser. 43. A utility pole according to claim 31, wherein said modular computer platform is interfaced to wide area and local area networks. 44. A buried container comprising a modular computer platform comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, and wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant. 45. A building comprising a modular computer platform comprising: a plurality of separate modules, each module comprising an internal circuit board, wherein the internal circuit boards of the plurality of separate modules are connected via the same bus, and wherein the modular computer platform is weather-resistant. 46. A building according to claim 45, wherein the building is an apartment building or a business building. 