A method and apparatus for providing low-cost, realistic force feedback including an improved actuator. The invention provides force sensations to a user and includes an interface device coupled to a host computer and allowing a user to interact with a host application program. A user object, such as a joystick, is moveable by a user in at least one rotary degree of freedom. A sensor reports a locative signal to the host computer to indicate a position of the user object. An actuator outputs forces on the user object in response to signals from the host computer and program. The actuator includes a housing, a set of grounded magnets provided on opposing surfaces of the housing and creating a magnetic field, and a rotor coupled to the user object positioned between the magnets. The rotor rotates about an axis of rotation and includes a shaft and teeth spaced around the shaft. An electric current flows through one or more coils on the teeth to cause the rotor to rotate. The teeth and the magnets are provided in a skewed, helical arrangement relative to each other so that, as the rotor rotates, a first tooth gradually exits the magnetic field as the next consecutive tooth gradually enters the magnetic field, thereby significantly reducing a cogging effect of the rotor when the user object is moved by the user and increasing the fidelity of forces experienced by the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: sensing a position of a user manipulable object in at least one degree of freedom; and providing a force on the user manipulable object, in response to position data associated with the sensed position, the force being provided using a motor coupled to the user manipulable object, the motor including a rotor within a housing of the motor, the rotor defining a longitudinal axis, the rotor having a tooth projecting therefrom in a direction skewed from the longitudinal axis. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a force on the user manipulable object, correlated with the sensing the position, in a second degree of freedom using a second motor coupled to the user manipulable object, the second motor configured to reduce a cogging effect. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: reducing a cogging effect of the motor, the motor including a rotary actuator including the rotor and a stator, the stator including a magnet associated with a magnetic field, the rotor further including a plurality of teeth radially disposed about a shaft in a skewed configuration relative to the magnet, the rotor configured to rotate such that a portion of one of the plurality of teeth exits the magnetic field substantially simultaneously with an adjacent one of the plurality of teeth entering the magnetic field. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the force includes using the motor and a gimbal mechanism coupled between the motor and the user manipulable object. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising amplifying the force provided on the user manipulable object using a transmission coupled between the gimbal mechanism and the motor. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the transmission is a capstan drive mechanism. 7. A method, comprising: receiving a force signal from a host computer; sensing a position of a user manipulable object in at least one degree of freedom; outputting a force in response to the force signal and a position signal using a grounded actuator coupled to the user manipulable object, the position signal associated with the sensed position, the ground actuator configured to provide a reduced cogging effect; and amplifying the force output by said ground actuator using a transmission coupled between the actuator and the user manipulable object, the amplified forced being output to the user manipulable object. 8. The method of claim 7, outputting the force includes using a DC servo motor as the grounded actuator. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein outputting the force includes using a brush motor as the grounded actuator. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein receiving the force signal includes receiving at a microprocessor a host force command from the host computer, the host command being associated with data values associated with events of a host application program. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein outputting the force includes decoding the host force command; and outputting the force signal to the actuator based on the decoded host force command. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein receiving the host force command includes receiving the host force command via a communication bus. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein receiving the host force command includes receiving a high-level force command received from the host computer. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein the user manipulable object is a joystick. 15. The method of claim 7, wherein the transmission includes gears. 16. The method of claim 7, wherein the transmission includes a belt drive mechanism. 17. The method of claim 7, wherein outputting the force includes outputting a rotary force using a rotary actuator in a rotary degree of freedom of the user manipulable object. 18. A method, comprising: sensing a position of a user manipulable object in at least one degree of freedom; and outputting a force to the user manipulable object using a grounded actuator coupled to the user manipulable object, the actuator having a means for reducing a cogging effect as a shaft of the actuator is rotated. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein outputting the force is in response to a force signal received from a host computer, the output force is associated with data values associated with an event of a host application program. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising amplifying the output force provided by the actuator using a transmission coupled between the actuator and the user manipulable object, the amplified force being applied to the user manipulable object. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the transmission is one of a capstan drive mechanism, a gear mechanism and a belt mechanism. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the means for reducing the cogging effect includes a rotor having a plurality of skewed teeth. 23. The method of claim 18, wherein the means for reducing the cogging effect includes a rotor having a plurality of teeth and a magnet, the plurality of teeth and the magnet being skewed relative to one another. 24. The method of claim 18, wherein the means for reducing the cogging effect is configured to substantially eliminate force pulsations caused by the cogging effect. 