A method for weighing and portioning items utilizing a robot device. The robot device includes a grip, e.g., a suction cup, to remove an item from a delivery station to a receiving area for placement into a particular batch. The method involves placing the items at delivery station according their weight and the weight of items already moved to a receiving area, selecting the items for a batch from the combination of items available for movement to the batch, and selective batching of the items in weight-determined and, optionally, type-determined groups.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for separating-out of supplied natural foodstuff items for the batching of these items in weight-determined groups, said batching method comprising the steps of: a) determining the weight of each item of an incoming supply of natural foodstuff items; b) supplying said natural foodstuff items in a spaced distribution; c) using a control unit to keep track of the weight and location of each of the spaced foodstuff items and d) using at least two robots, each of which is under the control of said control unit and each of which has a gripping element for the selective gripping of a foodstuff item, to selectively grip and transfer each foodstuff item from the supply of spaced foodstuff items to a receiving location in accordance with the weight of the foodstuff items and the weight of the foodstuff items already transferred, or a combination of the foodstuff items available for transfer, so as to produce batches of foodstuff items of a predetermined weight or predetermined weight and type. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of performing an item type determination, and the production of batches includes selective positioning of arriving items into type-determined groups. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said weight determining is performed by a "negative weighting" in which the items are supplied to a static weighing device at a supply station and the item weight is determined as a function of a weight reduction which takes place by the removal of the individual item from the supply station. 4. The method according to claim 1, comprising the further step of employing vision equipment to perform at least one of a type-determination, weighing and position-determination of the items. 5. The method according to claim 1, comprising the further step of using at least one of the robots to perform a periodic cleaning procedure in an area of operation of the robot by gripping of a supply hose for water or other cleaning agent and spraying the water or other cleaning agent on relevant areas of operation. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said weighing is performed by a weighing arrangement integrated with the gripping element. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein a first of said robots transfers each item to a first receiving location in which the items are segregated in accordance with at least the weight of the item, and wherein a second of said robots transfers said items from said first receiving location to a second receiving location in which items are formed into said batches. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein each of said robots directly transfers each item from the incoming supply of items directly to a respective receiving location in which selected ones of said items are formed into said batches. 9. The method according to claim 1, comprising the step of adjusting batch content by robotically retrieving an item transferred to one of the batches being formed to another of the batches being formed upon determination by the control unit that the item to be retrieved is better suited to formation of the other batch. 10. An Apparatus for separating-out of supplied natural foodstuff items for the batching of these items in weight-determined groups, said batching apparatus comprising: a) weight determining means for determining the weight of each item of an incoming supply of items; b) means for supplying said foodstuff items in a spaced distribution; c) a control unit for keeping track of the weight and location of each of the spaced foodstuff items; and d) at least two robots, each of which is under the control of said control unit and each of which has a gripping element for the selective gripping of an individual foodstuff item, for selectively gripping and transferring each foodstuff item from the supply of spaced foodstuff items to a receiving location in accordance with the weight of the foodstuff items and the weight of foodstuff items already transferred, or a combination of the foodstuff items available for transfer, so as to produce batches of foodstuff items of a predetermined weight or predetermined weight and type; wherein the weight determining means comprises a static weighing device at a supply station for the items for accumulated weighing-in of items and for enabling the determination of the weight of each item removed from the supply station by the gripping element of one of the robots by a reduction of the weight of items at the supply station due to the removal of the item. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said apparatus further comprises means for performing a type-determination of the incoming items and wherein said control unit is operative for effecting a selective batching of the items in both weight-determined and type-determined groups. 12. An Apparatus for separating-out of supplied natural foodstuff items for the batching of these items in weight-determined groups, said batching apparatus comprising: a) weight determining means for determining the weight of each item of an incoming supply of items; b) means for supplying said foodstuff items in a spaced distribution; c) a control unit for keeping track of the weight and location of each of the spaced foodstuff items and d) at least two robots, each of which is under the control of said control unit and each of which has a gripping element for the selective gripping of an individual foodstuff item, for selectively gripping and transferring each foodstuff item from the supply of spaced foodstuff items to a receiving location in accordance with the weight of the foodstuff items and the weight of foodstuff items already transferred, or a combination of the foodstuff items available for transfer, so as to produce batches of foodstuff items of a predetermined weight or predetermined weight and type; wherein a first of said robots is adapted to selectively transfer each item to a first receiving location in which the items are segregated in accordance with at least the weight of the item, and wherein a second of said robots is adapted to selectively transfer said items from said first receiving location to a second receiving location in which items are formed into said batches. 13. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein each of said robots is adapted to directly transfer each item from the incoming supply of items directly to a respective receiving location in which selected ones of said items are formed into said batches. 14. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said control unit is adapted to adjust batch content by causing a robotic to retrieve a item transferred to one of the batches being formed to another of the batches being formed upon determination by the control unit that the item to be retrieved is better suited to formation of the other batch. 