A consumer tote for a roll of wallpaper is disclosed. The tote has a disposable exterior with a main access flap and a pair of core access openings, one at each end. The tote has an interior in which may be located a disposable core. The core aligns with the access openings. In some embodiments there is a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior, when the flap is closed. In preferred embodiments, the core is supported at each end by a molding having a hub which engages the core.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A consumer tote for a roll of wallpaper, the tote comprising: an exterior in which is formed an access flap and, when the access flap is closed, a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior; an interior in which is located a rotatable core for receiving wallpaper, via the gap, printed by a wallpaper printer to which the consumer tote is mounted, the core supporting the printed wallpaper as a roll; and a handle formed by two sub-units having openings arranged to cooperate with one another so as to form a grip, each sub-unit having an edge which is affixed to the exterior, adjacent to the gap. 2. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the exterior is formed from a non-metallic textile. 3. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the core is supported at each end by a molding having a hub which engages the core. 4. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 3, wherein: each hub is surrounded by a bearing surface which locates the hub in the exterior to provide said rotation of the core. 5. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 4, wherein: the bearing surface is circular and connected to the hub by spokes. 6. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 3, wherein: at least one hub has an external coupling for engaging a rotating winding spindle. 7. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 6, wherein: the coupling comprises a ring of teeth. 8. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: a visible marker located on the exterior for indicating the location of the hub. 9. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the exterior further comprises a viewing window. 10. A consumer tote as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the exterior is adapted to hold about 50 meters of wallpaper wound onto the core. 