A method of analyzing performance data collected in regard to a plurality of content sources on a network. A ratio of performance metrics such as a render time for retrieving and displaying images and a fetch time for retrieving a base document, or a render bandwidth and a fetch bandwidth, for different content sources, is very useful in analyzing the performance of a distributed application across the network. By comparing measurements for two or more content sources and analyzing them according to a network structure, it is possible to recognize differences in the relative performance of the content sources and to quantify one content source relative to a standard defined by the performance of the other. The analysis both determines network performance and identifies specific performance problems manifest at specific localities of the network topology.
Claims The invention in which an exclusive right is claimed is defined by the following: 1. A method of analyzing the performance of a distributed application across a network using measurement related to a plurality of different content sources, the method comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining performance data related to the distributed application, the performance data including measurements related to different content sources; (b) defining a metric for a specific type of network structure related to the distributed application, the metric quantifying a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the specific type of network structure, said metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; (c) for different network structures of the same type as said specific type of network structure, using the defined metric and the performance data to obtain a numerical result corresponding to the relative performance of the distributed application; and (d) comparing the numerical result for each different network structure, to determine a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the specific type of network structure. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining additional performance data, the additional performance data including measurements related to different content sources; (b) for each different network structure of the specific type of network structure, using the defined metric and the additional performance data to obtain an additional numerical result corresponding to a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the network structure; and (c) comparing the additional numerical result for each different network structure, to determine a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the type of network structure. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining additional performance data, the additional performance data including measurements related to different content sources; (b) for each different network structure of the specific type of network structure, using the defined metric and the additional performance data to obtain an additional numerical result corresponding to a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the network structure; and (c) for each different network structure, determining an average value based on the numerical result and each additional numerical result corresponding to the specific type of network structure, to determine a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the type of network structure. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of obtaining performance data comprises the step of utilizing performance data previously obtained for a different purpose. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of obtaining performance data comprises the step of collecting the performance data specifically to determine the relative performance of the distributed application. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (a) defining an additional metric for an additional specific type of network structure related to the distributed application, the additional metric quantifying a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the additional specific type of network structure, each metric including measurements related to different content sources; (b) for each different network structure of the additional specific type, using the additional metric that was defined and the performance data to obtain an additional numerical result corresponding to the relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the additional different network structure; and (c) comparing the additional numerical results for each different network structure of the additional specific type, to determine the relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the additional specific type of network structure. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the denominator further comprises an average of a selected measurement related to each different one of the different content sources. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the denominator further comprises an average of a selected measurement related to each different one of the different content sources, but not related to the one of the different content sources whose selected measurement comprises the numerator of the ratio. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein a numerator of the ratio comprises a throughput of a first one of the different content sources, and the denominator comprises an average of the throughputs of each other one of the different content sources. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein a numerator of the ratio comprises a throughput of a first one of the different content sources, and the denominator comprises an average of the throughputs of each of the different content sources. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein a numerator of the ratio comprises a render time required to retrieve a component from a source on the network and a time required to process the component to display it, and wherein the denominator comprises a fetch time required to retrieve a base document relating to the distributed application from a source and process the base document. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the network structure is for a Web page. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the network structure is for a network subnet. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the network structure is for an autonomous system. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the network structure is for at least one of an economic entity, a political entity, and a geographic entity. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein a ratio of bandwidths is employed for analyzing Web pages. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the distributed application comprises a Web site. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the metric comprises a ratio of selected metrics of the distributed application. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the ratio comprises a render time divided by a fetch time. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the ratio comprises a render bandwidth divided by a fetch bandwidth. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the ratio is for metrics related to obtaining data from different sources. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the two content sources comprise different Internet Service Providers (ISPs), and wherein the metric comprises a ratio of metrics for retrieving a document relating to the distributed application using each different ISP. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the ratio comprises a metric for retrieving a document relating to the distributed application using a first one of the different Internet Service Providers (ISPs), divided by metric for retrieving the document relating to the distributed application using a second one of the different ISPs. 24. An article of manufacture adapted for use with a processor, comprising: (a) a memory medium; and (b) a plurality of machine instructions, which are stored on the memory medium, said plurality of machine instructions when executed by a processor, causing the processor to: (i) access performance data related to the distributed application, the performance data including measurements related to different content sources; (ii) enable a user to define a metric for a specific type of network structure related to the distributed application, the metric quantifying a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the specific type of network structure, said metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; and (iii) compute a numerical result for each network structure of the specific type of network structure using the defined metric and the performance data, the numerical result corresponding to a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the network structure. 25. An article of manufacture adapted for use with a processor, comprising: (a) a memory medium; and (b) a plurality of machine instructions, which are stored on the memory medium, said plurality of machine instructions when executed by a processor, causing the processor to: (i) enable a user to select a specific type of network structure related to the distributed application; (ii) based on the specific type of network structure selected by the user, access performance data related to the distributed application and the specific type of network structure that was selected, the performance data including measurements related to different content sources; (iii) based on the specific type of network structure selected by the user, access a predefined metric that quantifies a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the specific type of network structure that was selected, said predefined metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; and (iv) compute a numerical result related to the distributed application for each network structure of the type selected, using the predefined metric and the performance data, the numerical result corresponding to a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the network structure. 26. A system for measuring a performance of a distributed application across a network, comprising: (a) a memory in which a plurality of machine instructions are stored; (b) a display; and (c) a processor that is coupled to the memory to access the machine instructions and to the display, said processor executing said machine instructions and thereby implementing a plurality of functions, as follows: (i) accessing performance data related to the distributed application, the performance data including measurements related to different content sources; (ii) enabling a user to define a metric for a specific type of network structure related to the distributed application, the metric quantifying a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the specific type of network structure, said predefined metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; and (iii) computing a numerical result for each network structure of the specific type using the defined metric and the performance data, the numerical result corresponding to a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the network structure. 27. A system for measuring the performance of a distributed application across a network, comprising: (a) a memory in which a plurality of machine instructions are stored; (b) a display; and (c) a processor that is coupled to the display and to the memory to access the machine instructions, said processor executing said machine instructions and thereby implementing a plurality of functions, including: (i) enabling a user to select a specific type of network structure related to the distributed application; (ii) based on the specific type of network structure selected by the user, accessing performance data related to the distributed application and the specific type of network structure selected, the performance data including measurements related to different content sources; (iii) based on the specific type of network structure selected by the user, accessing a predefined metric that quantifies a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to network structures of the specific type, said predefined metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; and (iv) computing a numerical result for each network structure of the selected specific type related to the distributed application using the predefined metric and the performance data, the numerical result corresponding to a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to that network structure. 28. A method of analyzing the performance of a distributed application across a network, comprising the steps of: (a) identifying a plurality of similar network structures related to the distributed application that can be compared to one another to determine a relative performance of the distributed application; (b) for each similar network structure identified, obtaining data related to the performance of the distributed application, said data comprising measurements relating to different content sources; (c) defining performance metrics for the plurality of similar network structures using the data, said metrics comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; (d) computing the performance metric for each similar network structure identified, to obtain a numerical result; and (e) comparing numerical results computed for the plurality of similar network structures, to determine a relative performance of the distributed application with respect to the plurality of similar network structures identified. 29. A method of analyzing the performance of a distributed application across a network, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a set of performance records relating to the distributed application, each performance record comprising measurements for different content sources; (b) for each content source, computing a metric, said metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; and (c) analyzing metrics for the set of performance records according to a network structure, to determine a relative performance of the different content sources by quantifying the performance of the distributed application for a first one of the different content sources, relative to a standard defined by a second one of the different content sources. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the step of analyzing the metrics for the set of performance records comprises the steps of: (a) computing a baseline metric, wherein said baseline metric is the mean of the metrics for the set of performance records; (b) classifying the metrics for the set of performance records according to the network structure, such that metrics corresponding to related network structures are classified together in a common class; (c) for each class of metrics corresponding to related network structures, determining an average metric for the class; and (d) comparing the average metric for each class to the baseline metric. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein the step of providing a set of performance records comprises the step of utilizing a set of performance records that were previously provided for a different purpose. 32. The method of claim 29, wherein the step of providing a set of performance records comprises the step of generating a set of performance records specifically for measuring the performance of the distributed application across a network. 33. The method of claim 29, wherein the performance records comprise: (a) a fetch time required to retrieve a base document relating to the distributed application from a remote location in the network, to a specific end point; and (b) a render time required to retrieve and display an object relating to the distributed application. 34. The method of claim 29, wherein the network structure is for a Web page. 35. The method of claim 29, wherein the network structure is for a network subnet. 36. The method of claim 29, wherein the network structure is for an autonomous system. 37. The method of claim 29, wherein the network structure is for at least one of an economic entity, a political entity, and a geographic entity. 38. The method of claim 29, wherein a ratio of bandwidths is employed for analyzing Web pages. 39. The method of claim 29, wherein the distributed application comprises a Web site. 40. The method of claim 29, wherein the ratio comprises a render time divided by a fetch time. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein the set of performance records comprises performance records corresponding to different subnets. 42. The method of claim 29, wherein the ratio comprises a render bandwidth divided by a fetch bandwidth. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the set of performance records includes performance records for different Web pages. 44. The method of claim 29, wherein the different content sources are associated with different Internet Service Providers (ISPs), and the metric comprises a ratio based on measurements relating to the distributed application for each different ISP. 45. An article of manufacture adapted for use with a processor, comprising: (a) a memory medium; and (b) a plurality of machine instructions, which are stored on the memory medium, said plurality of machine instructions when executed by a processor, cawing to processor to: (i) access a set of performance records relating to the distributed application, each performance record comprising measurements for different content sources; (ii) for each performance record, compute a metric that reveals a relative performance of the different content sources, said metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; (iii) compute a baseline metric, wherein said baseline metric is a mean of the metrics for the set of performance records, said metrics each comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; (iv) classify the metrics for the set of performance records according to the network structure, so that metrics corresponding to related network structures are classified together in common classes; (v) for each of the common classes corresponding to related network structures, determine an average metric; and (vi) compare the average metric to the baseline metric. 46. A system for measuring a performance of a distributed application across a network, comprising: (a) a memory in which a plurality of machine instructions defining the parent application are stored; (b) a display; and (c) a processor that is coupled to the display and to the memory to access the machine instructions, said processor executing said machine instructions and thereby implementing a plurality of functions, including: (i) enabling a user to access a set of performance records relating to the distributed application, each performance record comprising measurements from different content sources; (ii) for each performance record, computing a metric that reveals a relative performance of the different content sources, said metric comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; and (iii) analyzing metrics for the set of performance records according to a network structure, to determine a relative performance of the different content sources by quantifying the performance of the distributed application with respect to a first one of the different content sources relative to a standard defined by a second one of the different content sources. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the plurality of functions implemented by the processor executing said machine instructions further include: (a) computing a baseline metric, wherein said baseline metric is a mean of metrics for the set of performance records; (b) classifying the metrics for the set of performance records according to the network structure, such that metrics corresponding to related network structures are classified together in common classes of metrics; (c) for each class of metrics corresponding to related network structures, determining an average metric for the class; and (d) comparing the average metric for each class to the baseline metric. 48. A method for measuring a performance of a distributed application across a network, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a set of performance records relating to the distributed application, each performance record comprising measurements from different content sources; (b) for each performance record, computing a metric that reveals a relative performance of the different content sources; (c) computing a baseline metric, wherein said baseline metric is a mean of metrics for the set of performance records, said metrics comprising a ratio of performance data, such that a numerator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to one of the different content sources, and a denominator of the ratio comprises a measurement related to another of the different content sources; (d) classifying the metrics for the set of performance records according to a structure of the network, such that metrics corresponding to related network structures are classified together in common classes of metrics; (e) for each class of metrics corresponding to related network structures, determining an average metric for the class; and (f) comparing the average metric for each class to the baseline metric to determine a relative performance of the distributed application. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the ratio comprises at least one of time divided by another time, a bandwidth divided by another bandwidth, a throughput of said at least one of the different content sources divided by an average of throughputs of all other of the different content sources, and a throughput of said at least one of the different content sources divided by an average of throughputs of each of the different content sources. 