An improved method of screening crystal growth conditions is provided wherein molecules are crystallized from solutions containing dyes. These dyes are selectively incorporated or associated with crystals of particular character thereby rendering crystals of particular character colored and improving detection of the dyed crystals. A preferred method involves use of dyes in protein solutions overlayed by oil. Use of oil allows the use of small volumes of solution and facilitates the screening of large numbers of crystallization conditions in arrays using automated devices that dispense appropriate solutions to generate crystallization trials, overlay crystallization trials with an oil, provide appropriate conditions conducive to crystallization and enhance detection of dyed (colored) or undyed (uncolored) crystals that result.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for forming dyed protein crystals comprising: (a) providing a protein solution, wherein the protein solution contains at least one dye, which dye is capable of dyeing at least a portion of protein crystals formed from the protein solution; (b) subjecting the protein solution to environmental conditions effective to form protein crystals; and (c) detecting the presence of dyed protein crystals, whereby the presence of the dyed protein crystals indicates the presence of protein crystals. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the dye is selected from the group consisting of methylene blue, methylene green, Izit and crystal violet. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the dye binds to protein molecules of the protein crystals formed from the protein solution. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the dye does not bind to protein molecules of the protein crystals formed from the protein solution and wherein molecules of the dye reside in channels present in the protein crystals. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the protein solution is partitioned from the atmosphere. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the protein solution is overlayed with an oil selected from the group consisting of paraffin oil, silicone oil and combinations thereof. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the protein solution further comprises a component selected from the group consisting of salts, buffers, precipitants, crystallization aids and any combination thereof. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the component crystallizes under the environmental conditions of (b). 9. The method of claim 8, wherein step (b) comprises addition of a precipitate solution. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the component crystals are undyed component crystals. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising detecting crystals formed in the provided protein solution and distinguishing dyed protein crystals from undyed component crystals. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the protein crystals and the component crystals are detected by microscopy. 13. A method for screening protein crystal growth conditions, comprising: (a) providing a set of at least two protein solutions, wherein the protein solutions contain a dye, which dye (i) is capable of dyeing at least a portion of protein crystals formed from the protein solution and (ii) does not dye a significant portion of component crystals formed from the protein solution; (b) subjecting the protein solutions to predetermined conditions, wherein the environmental conditions to which each member of the set of protein solutions is subjected is not identical to the environmental conditions to which another member of the set is subjected; and (c) detecting the presence or non-presence of dyed protein crystals and/or undyed component crystals, wherein; (i) the presence of the dyed protein crystals indicates the formation of protein crystals; and (ii) the presence of undyed component crystals indicates formation of component crystals. 14. The method of 13, wherein the set of protein solutions consists of greater than 10 protein solutions. 15. The method of 14, wherein the set of protein solutions consists of greater than 100 protein solutions. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the dye is selected from the group consisting of methylene blue, methylene green, Izit and crystal violet. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein the protein solutions are partitioned from the atmosphere. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the protein solutions are overlayed with an oil selected from the group consisting of paraffin oil, silicone oil and combinations thereof. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein the protein solution further comprises a component selected from the group consisting of salt, buffer, precipitant, crystallization aid and any combination thereof. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein the component crystallizes under the environmental conditions of (b). 21. The method of claim 20, wherein step (b) comprises addition of a precipitate solution. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the component crystals comprise undyed component crystals. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising distinguishing dyed protein crystals from undyed component crystals. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein dyed protein crystals are distinguished from component crystals by use of microscopy. 25. The method of claim 13, wherein detection of dyed protein crystals indicates a combination of conditions to promote crystal growth of a protein in the provided protein solution. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the detected dyed protein crystals are evaluated in respect to protein crystal quality. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the evaluation of protein crystal quality includes criterion selected from the group consisting of size of crystals, volume of crystals, intensity of coloration of crystals by dye, color of coloration of crystals by dye, sharpness of crystal edges, crystal shape and combinations thereof. 28. A method for forming dyed component crystals comprising (a) providing a component solution, wherein the component solution contains at least one dye, which dye is capable of dyeing at least a portion of component crystals formed from the component solution; (b) subjecting the component solution to environmental conditions effective to form component crystals; and (c) detecting the presence of dyed component crystals, whereby the presence of the dyed component crystals indicates the presence of component crystals. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the component solution is partitioned from the atmosphere. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the component solution is overlayed with an oil selected from the group consisting of paraffin oil, silicone oil and combinations thereof. 31. The method of claim 28, wherein the component solution further comprises a protein. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the protein crystallizes under the environmental conditions of (b). 33. The method of claim 32, wherein step (b) comprises addition of a precipitate solution. 34. The method of claim 32, wherein the protein crystals comprises undyed protein crystals. 35. The method of claim 32, further comprising detecting any crystals formed in the provided component solution and distinguishing the undyed protein crystals from the dyed component crystals on the basis that the component crystals are dyed component crystals and the protein crystals are undyed protein crystals. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the protein crystals and the component crystals are detected by microscopy. 37. A method for screening protein crystal growth conditions, comprising: (a) providing a set of at least two protein solutions, wherein the protein solutions contain a dye, which dye (i) is capable of dyeing at least a portion of component crystal formed from the protein solution and (ii) does not dye a significant portion of protein crystals formed from the protein solution; (b) subjecting the protein solutions to predetermined conditions, wherein the environmental conditions to which each member of the set of protein solutions is subjected is not identical to the environmental conditions to which another member of the set is subjected; and (c) detecting the presence or non-presence of undyed protein crystals and/or dyed component crystals, wherein; (i) the presence of undyed protein crystals indicates the formation of protein crystals; and (ii) the presence of dyed component crystals indicates formation of component crystals. 38. The method of 37, wherein the set of protein solutions consists of greater than 10 protein solutions. 39. The method of 38, wherein the set of protein solutions consists of greater than 100 protein solutions. 40. The method of claim 37, wherein the protein solution is partitioned from the atmosphere. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein the protein solution is overlayed with an oil selected from the group consisting of paraffin oil, silicone oil and combinations thereof. 42. The method of claim 37, wherein the protein solution further comprises a component selected from the group consisting of salt, buffer, precipitant, crystallization aid and any combination thereof. 43. The method of claim 37, wherein the protein crystallizes under the environmental conditions of (b). 44. The method of claim 43, wherein step (b) comprises addition of a precipitate solution. 45. The method of claim 43, wherein the protein crystals comprise undyed protein crystals. 46. The method of claim 45, further comprising distinguishing the undyed protein crystals from the dyed component crystals. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein the undyed protein crystal is distinguished from the component crystals by use of microscopy. 48. The method of claim 37, wherein detection of the undyed protein crystals indicates a combination of conditions to promote crystal growth of a protein in the provided protein solutions. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the detected undyed protein crystals are evaluated in respect to protein crystal quality. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the evaluation of protein crystal quality includes criterion selected from the group consisting of size of crystals, volume of crystals, intensity of coloration of crystals by dye, color of coloration of crystals by dye, sharpness of crystal edges, crystal shape or combinations thereof. 51. An automated method of screening protein crystal growth conditions comprising the steps of: a) providing a set of at least two protein solutions, wherein the protein solutions contain a dye, which dye (i) is capable of dyeing at least a portion of protein crystals formed from the protein solution and (ii) does not dye a significant portion of component crystals formed from the protein solution; b) dispensing the protein solutions onto a platform, wherein the protein solutions are dispensed using an automated dispensing system in accordance with a predetermined program; c) controlling the protein crystal growth conditions of the protein solutions; and d) detecting the presence or non-presence of dyed protein crystals and/or undyed component crystals, wherein the presence of the dyed protein crystals indicates the formation of protein crystals; and the presence of undyed component crystals indicates the formation of component crystals. 52. The method according to claim 51 wherein protein solutions on the platform are overlayed with an oil. 53. A method for screening protein crystal growth conditions, comprising: a) providing a set of at least two protein solutions, wherein the protein solutions contain a dye, which dye (i) is capable of dyeing at least a portion of component crystals formed from the protein solution and (ii) does not dye a significant portion of protein crystals formed from the protein solution; b) dispensing the protein solutions onto a platform, wherein the protein solutions are dispensed using an automated dispensing system in accordance with a predetermined program; c) controlling the protein crystal growth conditions of the protein solutions; and d) detecting the presence or non-presence of undyed protein crystals and/or dyed component crystals, wherein the presence of the undyed protein crystals indicates the formation of protein crystals; and the presence of the dyed component crystals indicates formation of component crystals. 54. The method according to claim 53 wherein the protein solutions on the platform are overlayed with an oil. 55. The method of claim 31, wherein the component solution is partitioned from the atmosphere. 