A radiation treatment system (100) for accurately delivering radiation to a targeted site within a cancer patient (108) that includes a modular patient support system and a patient positioner (114). The modular patient support system includes a modularly expandable patient pod (200) and at least one immobilization device, such as, for example, a rigid moldable foam cradle (350). The patient pod (200) includes a generally hemi-cylindrical support shell (212) that extends longitudinally between proximal edge (214) and distal edge (216), and transversely between two lateral edges (222, 224). In one embodiment, the lateral edges (222, 224) are tapered to minimize edge effects that result when radiation beams traverse the lateral edges (222, 224).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular patient support system for efficiently securing a cancer patient in a fixed position during radiation treatment and for repositioning the patient to the fixed position for any subsequent radiation treatments pursuant to a radiation treatment protocol, the support system comprising: a modular patient pod, comprising: a longitudinally-extending, generally hemi-cylindrical support shell extending from a shell proximal edge through a shell longitudinal center section to a shell distal edge, the shell having a bottom transverse concave surface, a top transverse concave surface, a first upwardly-extending lateral edge, and a second upwardly-extending lateral edge, a proximal extension track connected to the shell proximal edge, a distal extension track connected to the shell distal edge, and a positioner-pod connector attached to the shell bottom surface between the shell proximal edge and the shell longitudinal center section; and a first immobilization device. 2. The support system of claim 1, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a rigid moldable foam cradle, comprising a mold that conforms to at least a portion of the patient's body. 3. The support system of claim 1, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a bite block system. 4. The support system of claim 1, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a face mask. 5. The support system of claim 1, wherein the first immobilization device comprises a cranial ring. 6. The support system of claim 1, wherein the pod comprises a distal pod attachment that engages with the distal extension track. 7. The support system of claim 3, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending, generally flat attachment, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's head. 8. The support system of claim 3, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending flat attachment, comprising a head-rest region and an immobilization device attachment region, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's head. 9. The support system of claim 1, wherein the pod comprises a proximal pod attachment that engages with the proximal extension track. 10. The support system of claim 9, wherein the proximal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending positioner-end extension chamfered at about a 45-degree angle relative to a visualized longitudinal axis extending between the proximal and distal extension tracks, wherein the extension prevents collision of the pod with any patient positioning devices that engage with pod, wherein the extension provides cantilevered support for the patient's leg region. 11. The support system of claim 1, further comprising a second immobilization device. 12. The support system of claim 11, wherein the second immobilization device comprises a bite block system. 13. The support system of claim 11, wherein the second immobilization device comprises a face mask. 14. The support system of claim 11, wherein the second immobilization device comprises a cranial ring. 15. The support system of claim 1, wherein the wherein the shell comprises a first treat-through material. 16. The support system of claim 15, wherein the wherein the first treat-through material comprises carbon fiber. 17. The support system of claim 1, wherein the radiation treatment protocol comprises the delivery of proton beams to a targeted site within the patient. 18. A modular patient pod for providing cantilevered support of a cancer patient undergoing radiation treatment pursuant to a treatment protocol, the pod comprising: a longitudinally-extending generally hemi-cylindrical support shell extending from a shell proximal edge through a shell longitudinal center section to a shell distal edge, the support shell having a bottom transverse concave surface, a top transverse concave surface, a first upwardly-extending lateral edge, and a second upwardly-extending lateral edge; a proximal extension track connected to the shell proximal edge; a distal extension track connected to the shell distal edge; and a positioner-pod connector attached to the shell bottom surface between the shell proximal edge and the shell longitudinal center section. 19. The patient pod of claim 18, wherein the shell comprises a first treat-through material. 20. The patient pod of claim 19, wherein the first treat-through material comprises carbon fiber. 21. The patient pod of claim 18, further comprising a distal pod attachment that engages with the distal extension track. 22. The patient pod of claim 21, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending, generally flat attachment, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's head. 23. The patient pod of claim 21, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending, generally hemi-cylindrical attachment, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's head. 24. The patient pod of claim 21, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending flat attachment, comprising a head-rest region and an immobilization device attachment region, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's head. 25. The patient pod of claim 21, wherein the distal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending prone headrest, wherein the headrest defines a face-through hole through which the patient can place his face, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's head. 26. The patient pod of claim 18, further comprising a proximal pod attachment that engages with the proximal extension track. 27. The patient pod of claim 26, wherein the proximal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending robot-end extension chamfered at about a 45-degree angle relative to a visualized longitudinal axis extending between the proximal and distal extension tracks, wherein the extension prevents collision of the pod with any patient positioning devices that engage with pod, wherein the extension provides cantilevered support for the patient's leg region. 28. The patient pod of claim 26, wherein the proximal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending, generally flat attachment, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's leg region. 29. The patient pod of claim 26, wherein the proximal pod attachment comprises a longitudinally-extending, generally hemi-cylindrical attachment, wherein the attachment provides cantilevered support for the patient's leg region. 30. The patient pod of claim 18, wherein the radiation treatment protocol comprises the delivery of proton beams to a targeted site within the patient. 31. A modular patient pod configured to reduce any edge effects that may arise during radiation treatment of a cancer patient pursuant to a radiation treatment protocol, the pod comprising: a longitudinally-extending support shell extending from a shell proximal edge through a shell longitudinal center section to a shell distal edge, the support shell having a bottom transverse concave surface, a top transverse concave surface, a first lateral edge, and a second lateral edge; a proximal extension track connected to the shell proximal edge; and a distal extension track connected to the shell distal edge; wherein the first lateral edge comprises a first tapered edge and a first longitudinally-extending rail, the first rail comprising a first rail inferior portion that is complementary to the shape of the first tapered edge and a first rail superior portion that is rounded, the first rail comprising a first low-density material; wherein the first tapered edge facilitates the delivery of prescribed radiation beam doses through the first lateral edge pursuant to a radiation treatment protocol. 32. The patient pod of claim 31, wherein the first tapered edge is tapered with a gradient from about 0.1 mm water equivalency/mm to about 5 mm water equivalency/mm. 33. The patient pod of claim 31, wherein the first tapered edge is tapered with a gradient of about 0.5 mm water equivalency/mm. 34. The patient pod of claim 31, wherein the first low-density material comprises epoxy with microspheres. 35. The patient pod of claim 31, wherein the first low-density material comprises nylon. 36. The patient pod of claim 31, wherein the first low-density material comprises urethane. 37. The patient pod of claim 31, wherein the second lateral edge comprises a second tapered edge and a second longitudinally-extending rail, the second rail comprising a second rail inferior portion that is complementary to the shape of the second tapered edge and a second rail superior portion that is rounded, the second rail comprising a second low-density material, wherein the second tapered edge facilitates the delivery of prescribed radiation beam doses through the second lateral edge pursuant to the radiation treatment protocol. 38. The patient pod of claim 37, wherein the second tapered edge is tapered with a gradient from about 0.1 mm water equivalency/mm to about 5 mm water equivalency/mm. 39. The patient pod of claim 37, wherein the second tapered edge is tapered with a gradient of about 0.5 mm water equivalency/mm. 40. The patient pod of claim 37, wherein the second low-density material comprises epoxy with microspheres. 41. The patient pod of claim 37, wherein the second low-density material comprises nylon. 42. The patient pod of claim 37, wherein the second low-density material comprises urethane. 43. The patient pod of claim 31, wherein the radiation treatment protocol comprises the delivery of proton beams to a targeted site within the patient. 44. A modular patient pod for radiation treatment of a cancer patient pursuant to a radiation treatment protocol, the pod comprising: a support shell extending from a shell proximal edge through a shell longitudinal center section to a shell distal edge, the support shell having a first lateral edge, and a second lateral edge; means for extending the length of the pod at the shell proximal edge; means for extending the length of the pod at the shell distal edge; wherein the first lateral edge comprises a means for reducing any edge effects associated with any beams that traverse the first lateral edge pursuant to the treatment protocol; wherein the second lateral edge comprises a means for reducing any edge effects associated with any beams that traverse the second lateral edge pursuant to the treatment protocol. 