Multi-disk processing system and method of continuous finishing of memory media disks for digital data storage systems in preparation for magnetic memory coating, comprising four main sub-systems: 1) multiple driven spindles mounted on a chassis, at 3, 6, 9 and 12 o'clock positions; 2) finishing tape head units mounted on a base; 3) a robotic handler for loading and unloading disks onto/off at least one of the spindles; and 4) a programmable system controller that controls the sub-system operations and loading/unloading. The tape head sub-system includes its own programmable controller and sensors for control of the finishing tape advance. The multiple spindles and handler rotate relative to each other. In a preferred embodiment, the spindles are mounted on a rotating turntable that also oscillates. Alternately, the spindles are fixed in position and a rotating handler with multiple grippers for simultaneously loading/unloading disks from all spindles at once is used.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A multi-station disk finishing system for digital memory media disks comprising in operative combination: a) a robotic handler for receiving un-processed disk substrates from an incoming carrier, sequentially loading un-processed disks for finish processing, and unloading processed disks to an outgoing carrier; b) a multi-spindle disk processor unit, including an array of processing station positions and a plurality of rotationally driven spindles, at least one spindle for each processing station position; c) said robotic handler sequentially loads onto said spindles each of a plurality of disks for processing at said processing stations, and from which spindles said robotic handler unloads disks to said outgoing carrier after processing; d) a tape finishing unit, including at least two driven tape magazine assemblies, each magazine assembly being disposed in cooperative alignment with an individual one of said processing stations; and e) a disk processor controller for synchronously sequencing the operation of said robotic handler, said spindles at each station and said tape finishing unit to provide substantially continuous progression of un-processed disks to, from and between all processing stations to a completed, processed disk, and for text messaging to an operator console. 2. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 1 wherein at least one of said robotic handler and said disk processor unit are rotationally mounted to provide relative rotational motion between them. 3. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 2 wherein said robotic handler includes a plurality of disk gripping assemblies mounted to rotate with respect to said spindle processing station positions to provide said relative rotation to sequentially bring said disks into alignment with said spindles at said stations for loading disks onto, and unloading disks from, said spindles for processing. 4. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 2 wherein said robotic handler includes at least one disk gripping assembly and said spindles are mounted on a rotatable turntable assembly to provide said relative rotation to sequentially bring each of said spindles into alignment with said disk gripping assembly for loading disks into, and unloading disks from, said spindle, and for sequentially bringing each loaded spindle into successive station positions for processing. 5. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 4 wherein each abrasive tape magazine assembly includes spaced, opposed, openable/closable load rollers defining a nip into which a disk is received for processing on at least one face of said disk and a tape advance drive mechanism, and said tape finishing unit includes at least one controller for processing input/output signals relating to tape operations. 6. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 5 wherein said disk processor controller is configurable to monitor at least one of said input/output signals of said tape finishing unit controller selected from intercepting, sampling, delaying and reissuing said signals to assist in synchronizing operation of said multi-station disk processor with operation of said tape finishing unit or said robotic handler. 7. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 5 which includes an operator console having at least one input device and a display device, and wherein said disk processor controller is configurable to evaluate at least one input/output signal of said tape finishing unit controller selected from intercepting, monitoring, sampling, delaying and reissuing said signals to assist in synchronizing operation of said multi-station disk processor with operation of said tape finishing unit and said robotic handler. 8. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 7 wherein said disk processor controller intercepts at least one signal output from a tape magazine and sends a satisfied signal as an input to said tape finishing unit controller. 9. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 7 wherein said disk processor controller intercepts at least one signal output from said tape finishing unit controller and reissues it to said robotic handler. 10. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 7 wherein said disk processor controller intercepts at least one signal output from said robotic handler and reissues it to at least one of said multi-spindle unit and said tape finishing unit. 11. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 7 wherein said disk processor controller includes a communications interface unit controller for communicating text relating to the operation of said system to said operator console and for forwarding console input and output signals between said disk processor controller and said console. 12. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 11 wherein said disk processor controller receives at least one signal output from at least one of a tape magazine, said tape finishing unit controller, said multi-spindle unit, said handler and said console as input to maintain synchronous operation of said system. 13. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 4 which includes an oscillation pivot and drive assembly including drive motors for driving a plurality of said spindles when located in said processing station positions. 14. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 13 wherein said rotatable turntable assembly is mounted to said oscillation pivot and drive assembly to provide a lateral oscillation of said disks during selected processing operations. 15. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 14 wherein said rotatable turntable assembly includes an array of at least four spindles, of which at least three are rotationally driven, said spindles being indexable to processing station positions defined as a 12 o'clock position, a 3 o'clock position, a 6 o'clock position and a 9 o'clock position. 16. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 15 wherein at least one of said 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock positions is a load/unload station for receiving un-processed disks from, and delivering processed disks to, said handler. 17. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 16 which includes a tape magazine assembly positionable to provide tape to load rollers at each of said 3 o'clock and 9 o'clock positions. 18. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 17 wherein both the 12 and 6 o'clock positions are load/unload stations, and said disks are processed in at least one of the 3 and 9 o'clock position stations. 19. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 14 wherein said turntable is driven to rotate spindle-mounted disks sequentially, clockwise or counterclockwise, from the 6 o'clock position to the other three positions and back to the 6 o'clock position, and said turntable rotation pauses at each said position for processing of disks at the respective stations of those positions. 20. A multi-station disk finishing systems as in claim 13 wherein said oscillation is centered at the axis of a load/unload station. 21. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 20 wherein said oscillation assembly includes a mechanism to oscillate in an amplitude range of from about 0.025'' (.+-.0.0125'') to about 0.125'' (.+-.0.0625'') during processing in at least one processing station. 22. A multi-station disk finishing system as in claim 21 wherein at least one of the 12 o'clock and the 6 o'clock position is said load/unload station. 23. A multi-station unit for handling disk substrates in a finishing process and interfacing with a disk tape finishing unit and a robotic handler, comprising in operative combination: a) a multi-spindle disk handling unit, including an array of processing station positions and a plurality of rotationally driven spindles, at least one spindle for each processing station position; b) an operator console having at least one input device and a display device; c) a disk processor controller for synchronously sequencing the operation of said spindles at each station to provide substantially continuous progression of un-processed disks to, from and between all processing stations to a completed, processed disk, and for text messaging to said operator console. 24. A multi-station unit as in claim 23 wherein said spindles are mounted on a rotatable turntable assembly to provide relative rotation to sequentially bring each of said spindles into alignment with a disk handler assembly for loading disks into, and unloading disks from, said spindle, and for sequentially bringing each loaded spindle into successive station positions for processing. 25. A multi-station unit as in claim 24 which includes an oscillation pivot and drive assembly including drive motors for driving a plurality of said spindles when located in said processing station positions. 26. A multi-station unit as in claim 25 wherein said rotatable turntable assembly is mounted to said oscillation pivot and drive assembly to provide a lateral oscillation of said disks during processing in at least one processing station. 27. A multi-station unit as in claim 26 wherein said turntable is driven to rotate spindle-mounted disks sequentially, clockwise or counterclockwise, from the 6 o'clock position to the other three positions and back to the 6 o'clock position, and said turntable rotation pauses at each said position for processing of disks at the respective stations of those positions. 28. A multi-station unit as in claim 25 wherein said oscillation is centered at the axis of a load/unload station. 29. A multi-station unit as in claim 28 wherein said oscillation assembly includes a mechanism to oscillate in an amplitude range of from about 0.025'' (.+-.0.0125'') to about 0.125'' (.+-.0.0625'') during processing in at least one processing station. 30. A multi-station unit as in claim 29 wherein at least one of the 12 o'clock and the 6 o'clock position is said load/unload station. 31. A multi-station unit as in claim 24 wherein said rotatable turntable assembly includes an array of at least four spindles, of which at least three are rotationally driven, said spindles being indexable to processing station positions defined as a 12 o'clock position, a 3 o'clock position, a 6 o'clock position and a 9 o'clock position. 32. A multi-station unit as in claim 31 wherein at least one of said 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock positions is a load/unload station for receiving un-processed disks from, and delivering processed disks to, said robotic handler. 33. A multi-station unit as in claim 32 wherein said disks are processed at each of said 3 o'clock and 9 o'clock positions. 34. A multi-station unit as in claim 32 wherein both the 12 and 6 o'clock positions are load/unload stations, and said disks are processed in at least one of the 3 and 9 o'clock position stations. 35. A multi-station unit as in claim 23 wherein said disk processor controller is configurable to evaluate at least one input/output signal of a controller of said tape finishing unit selected from intercepting, monitoring, sampling, delaying and reissuing said signal to assist in synchronizing operation of said multi-station disk processor with operation of said tape finishing unit and said robotic handler. 36. A multi-station unit as in claim 35 wherein said disk processor controller intercepts at least one signal output from a tape magazine of said tape finishing unit and sends a satisfied signal as an input to said tape finishing unit controller. 37. A multi-station unit as in claim 35 wherein said disk processor controller intercepts at least one signal output from said tape finishing unit controller and reissues it to said robotic handler. 38. A multi-station unit as in claim 35 wherein said disk processor controller intercepts at least one signal output from said robotic handler and reissues it to at least one of said multi-spindle unit and said tape finishing unit. 39. A multi-station unit as in claim 35 wherein said disk processor controller includes a communications interface unit controller for communicating text relating to the operation of said unit to said operator console and for forwarding console input and output signals between said disk processor controller and said console. 40. A multi-station unit as in claim 39 wherein said disk processor controller receives at least one signal output from at least one of a tape magazine of said tape finishing unit, said tape finishing unit controller, said multi-spindle unit, said handler and said console as input to maintain synchronous operation of said system. 41. Method of control of interactive sub-assemblies of memory media disk finishing processing system operations, comprising in operative combination: a) providing a configurable system controller having at least one digital processor for receiving as input, output signals from at least two electromechanical sub-assemblies, and for out-putting operating signals as input signals to said sub-assemblies, at least one of said sub-assemblies including its own controller and having at least one sensor providing an input signal to its sub-assembly controller; b) linking said system controller electronically to said sub-assemblies directly or through their own controllers; c) configuring said system controller to evaluate at least one of said input/output signals of said sub-assemblies controllers or sensors, said evaluation being selected from intercepting, monitoring, sampling, delaying and reissuing said signals; d) sequencing the operation of said mechanical sub-assemblies by synchronizing in said system controller, input/output signals to provide substantially continuous progression of said disks to, from and between all sub-assemblies to produce a completed processed disk; and e) sending text messages to and receiving input from an operator console relating to said operations. 42. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 41 wherein at least one of said signals of a sub-assembly is evaluated and said system controller sends a satisfied signal in response to said sub-assembly. 43. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 42 wherein said satisfied signal is in response to a signal from said tape finishing unit. 44. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 41 wherein said system controller includes a communications interface unit controller for communicating said text relating to the operation of said system to said operator console and for forwarding console input and output signals between said system controller and said console. 45. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 44 wherein said sub-assemblies include a tape finishing unit and a multi-spindle unit, and said system controller receives at least one signal output from said tape finishing unit and said console as input to maintain synchronous operation of said system. 46. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 45 wherein said sub-assemblies include a robotic handler to load and unload disks to and from said multi-spindle unit, and said system controller evaluates at least one signal of said robotic handler to maintain synchronous operation of said system. 47. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 46 wherein at least one of said robotic handler and said multi-spindle unit are rotationally mounted to provide relative rotational motion between them. 48. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 47 wherein said robotic handler includes a plurality of disk gripping assemblies mounted to rotate with respect to said multi-spindle unit to provide said relative rotation to sequentially bring said disks into alignment with said spindles at stations for loading disks onto, and unloading disks from, said spindles for processing. 49. Method of interactive sub-assembly control as in claim 47 wherein said robotic handler includes at least one disk gripping assembly and said spindles are mounted on a rotatable turntable assembly to provide said relative rotation to sequentially bring each of said spindles into alignment with said disk gripping assembly for loading disks into, and unloading disks from, said spindle, and for sequentially bringing each loaded spindle into successive positions for processing. 50. Method of finishing digital memory media disk substrates comprising the steps in operative order of: a) loading at least one unprocessed memory media disk substrate from a group of said disks onto each of a plurality of rotationally driven spindles in an array of processing station positions; b) contacting at least one side of each disk in at least two selected station positions in said array with a finishing process tape; c) rotating said disks in said stations by driving said spindles for a time sufficient to provide a preselected amount of finish processing by said tape; d) unloading processed disks from spindles at said stations when said finish processing is completed at each said station; and e) controlling the operation of said steps of tape finish processing, said loading and said unloading from said spindles to provide substantially continuous synchronous sequential finishing processing of said disks. 51. Method of finishing disks as in claim 50 wherein said steps of loading and unloading are enabled by a robotic handler, and said step of synchronizing includes the operation of said handler to maintain said continuous sequential processing. 52. Method of finishing disks as in claim 51 which includes the step of rotating said spindle array and said robotic handler relative to each other. 53. Method of finishing disks as in claim 52 wherein said step of relative rotation includes rotating a plurality of disk gripping mechanisms of said robotic handler. 54. Method of finishing disks as in claim 52 wherein said step of relative rotation includes sequentially rotating each of said plurality of spindles into successive alignment with a disk gripping mechanism of said robotic handler for said steps of loading said unprocessed disks and unloading said processed disks from said disk gripping mechanism of said robotic handler. 55. Method of finishing disks as in claim 54 which includes an array of four spindles rotatable into station positions of 12 o'clock, 3 o'clock, 6 o'clock and 9 o'clock, and at least one position is a load/unload station and at least two positions are finish processing stations. 56. Method of processing disks as in claim 55 wherein said load/unload station is selected from at least one of 12 o'clock and 6 o'clock. 57. Method of finishing disks as in claim 56 which includes the step of lubricating, cooling or rinsing said disks in at least one of said four stations. 58. Method of finishing disks as in claim 56 which includes rotating spindle-mounted disks sequentially, clockwise or counterclockwise, from the 6 o'clock position to the other three positions and back to the 6 o'clock position, and said rotation pauses at each said position for processing of disks at the respective stations of those positions. 59. Method of finishing disks as in claim 58 which includes the step of laterally oscillating said disks during at least one selected finishing processing step. 60. Method of texturing disks as in claim 59 wherein said oscillation is centered at the axis of a load/unload station. 61. Method of finishing disks as in claim 54 wherein said spindles are mounted on a rotatably driven turntable, and said operation controlling step is enabled by a system controller, said processing step is enabled by a tape finishing unit having a controller, said disk loading/unloading steps are enabled by a robotic handler having a controller, and said controlling step includes providing actuation signals to said turntable and said spindle drives, and interfacing with said tape finishing unit controller, said handler controller and an operator console having an operator input device and a display. 62. Method of finishing disks as in claim 61 wherein said operation controlling step includes: i) evaluating at least one input/output signal relating to rotation of said spindle turntable and the position of said robotic handler relative thereto, and relating to said tape finish processing, said evaluation being selected from intercepting, monitoring, sampling, delaying and reissuing said signal; ii) sequencing input/output signals relating to operational steps to provide substantially continuous progression of said disks to, from and between all processing stations to produce a completed processed disk; and iii) sending text messages to and receiving input from said operator console relating to said operations. 63. Method of finishing disks as in claim 62 wherein said evaluating includes sending a satisfied signal in response to an input signal from said controller of said tape finish processing operation. 64. Method of finishing disks as in claim 52 which includes the step of laterally oscillating said disks during at least one selected finishing processing step. 65. Method of finishing disks as in claim 64 wherein said oscillation is centered at the axis of a load/unload station. 66. Method of finishing disks as in claim 52 wherein said step of controlling operational steps includes: i) evaluating at least one input/output signal relating to relative rotation of said robotic handler and said spindle array, and relating to said tape finishing processing, said evaluation being selected from intercepting, monitoring, sampling, delaying and reissuing said signal; ii) sequencing input/output signals relating to operational steps to provide substantially continuous progression of said disks to, from and between all processing stations to produce a completed processed disk; and iii) sending text messages to and receiving input from an operator console relating to said operations. 67. Method of finishing disks as in claim 66 wherein said evaluating includes sending a satisfied signal in response to an input signal from a processing operation controller. 68. Method of finishing disks as in claim 67 wherein said satisfied signal is in response to a signal from said tape finish processing operation. 69. Method of finishing disks as in claim 66 wherein said step of controlling includes communicating text relating to said operations to an operator console and for forwarding console input and output signals between a processing operations controller and said console. 70. Method of texturing disks as in claim 52 wherein said controlling step is enabled by a system controller, said finishing step is enabled by a tape finishing unit having a controller, said disk loading/unloading steps are enabled by a robotic handler having a controller, and said controlling step includes interfacing with said tape finishing unit controller, said robotic handler controller and an operator console having an operator input device and a display. 