An in-mold and in-line decorating method is disclosed which, using a single sheet layer, allows the placement of the highest possible quality graphics into the surface of products made from a variety of moldable thermoplastic, thermoset, and vulcanizable materials using a variety of molding processes. The methods also provide new or improved capabilities for product identification, safety, and serialized tracking.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of in-mold decorating an article comprising the steps of: introducing a single layer sheet comprising microporous material, a printed image, and a UV cured polymeric material applied over said printed image into a mold, contacting said single layer sheet with a thermoplastic polymer; and permanently fusing said sheet into the surface of said polymer during the molding process to produce an in-mold decorated article. 2. The method of claim 1 where said single layer sheet is printed using a method selected from the group consisting of lithography, screen printing, flexography, high resolution ink-jet printing and color or monochrome electrostatic laser printing. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the single layer sheet is a precipitated silica filled microporous material. 4. The method of claim 1 where said material applied over said printed image is a coating applied using a method selected from the group consisting of lithography, screen printing, and roll coating. 5. The method of claim 1 where said thermoplastic polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyolefins, polyesters, polycarbonate, elastomers, polyamides, polystyrene, polyphenylene oxide, polyvinyl chloride, partially devulcanized crumb rubber, crumb rubber filled polymer, and acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene. 6. The method of claim 1 where said mold utilizes a process selected from the group consisting of injection, blow, thermoforming, gas assist, or rotational molding. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the UV cured coating comprises an acrylate ester. 