Featured is a system to determine the three-dimensional position and orientation of an effector (a needle, probe, or other medical instrument) relative to a subject using cross-sectional images (e.g. from a CT or MRI scanner). Also provided is a method for image guided effector placement that requires no immobilization of the patient or fiducial implantation. A localization module (fiducial object) is integrated or associated with the effector allowing for the localization of the effector in the image space using a single cross-sectional image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An imaging system for invasive therapy of a patient, the system comprising: an imaging apparatus that can provide a cross-sectional image of a patient; and a medical instrument comprising a fiducial object that can be simultaneously imaged in the same image as a targeted site of the patient wherein the fiducial object comprises three N-shaped fiducial motifs each on a coplanar space, the coplanar space of each N-shaped fiducial motif being non-coplanar. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the fiducial object representation in the image is unique for the pose of the instrument within the therapeutic field or range of motion of the instrument. 3. The system of claim 1 or 2 wherein the image can produce three identifiable points to coordinate pose of the instrument and the targeted site of the patient. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the instrument pose is directly manipulated in reference to the medical image. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the relative position and orientation of the medical instrument and target site of the patient can be determined from the information contained in a single cross-sectional image produced by the imaging apparatus. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the system comprises a control apparatus that can register the instrument in a detected image space and calculate instrument movement. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the control apparatus calculates the instrument pose in the image space by generating at least three corresponding points. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the three N-shaped fiducial motifs are arranged orthogonally in a U-shape with one fiducial motif forming the bottom and two fiducial motifs forming the sides. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the medical instrument is manipulated manually. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a robotic apparatus capable of positioning the medical instrument. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the instrument is positioned by the robot in the desired pose relative to the patient. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the imaging device is a CT, MRI or ultrasound device. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein the fiducial object is affixed to the instrument. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein the fiducial object is integral to the instrument. 15. A method for guiding invasive therapy in a patient, comprising: a) providing a system that comprises an imaging apparatus and a medical instrument comprising a fiducial object that can be simultaneously imaged in the same image as a targeted site of the patient, the fiducial object comprising three N-shaped fiducial motifs each on a coplanar space, the coplanar space of each N-shaped fiducial motif being non-coplanar; b) obtaining a cross-sectional image that comprises both the fiducial object and the targeted site of the patient; and c) manipulating the instrument with respect to the patient using information derived from the image. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the relative position and orientation of the medical instrument and target site of the patient are determined from the information contained in a single cross-sectional image. 17. The method of claim 15 or 16 wherein the instrument is manipulated using information derived from a single reference frame of the relative position of the instrument and target site. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the instrument is manipulated substantially contemporaneously with respect to obtaining the image. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the instrument is manipulated based on a single image. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein a plurality of images are obtained. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the plurality of images are taken over a period of at least one minute. 22. The method of claim 20 or 21 wherein one or more volumetric images are obtained. 23. The method of claim 15 wherein a material is deposited or administered to the patient by the instrument. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the administered or deposited material is a therapeutic agent. 25. The method of claim 15 wherein energy is administered to the patient. 26. The method of claim 15 wherein energy is removed from the patient. 27. The method of claim 15 wherein tissue is removed from the patient by the instrument. 28. The method of claim 15 wherein the instrument administers to the patient a radiation seed implant, a DNA therapeutic, a chemotherapeutic agent, a cryotherapeutic treatment, a sclerotic solution, ethanol, high intensity ultrasound, directed beam therapy, localized X-ray therapy, photodynamic therapy, laser ablation therapy, or RF ablation therapy. 29. The method of claim 15 wherein the fiducial object representation in the image is unique for the pose of the instrument. 30. The method of claim 15 wherein the image can produce three identifiable points to coordinate pose of the instrument and the targeted site of the patient. 31. The method of claim 15 wherein the instrument pose is directly manipulated in reference to the medical image. 32. The method of claim 15 wherein the instrument is registered in detected image space by a control apparatus. 33. The method of claim 32 wherein the instrument is registered in the image space by the image generating at least three corresponding points. 34. The method of claim 15 wherein the three N-shaped fiducial motifs are arranged orthogonally in a U-shape with one fiducial motif forming the bottom and two fiducial motifs forming the sides. 35. The method of claim 15 wherein the medical instrument is manipulated manually. 36. The method of claim 15 wherein the instrument is manipulated by a robotic apparatus. 37. The method of claim 15 wherein the imaging device is a CT, MRI or ultrasound device. 