Systems and methods for shape animation are described. In one aspect, a degree of freedom is linearly approximated. The degree of freedom is associated with a new form or motion for rendering based on multiple examples that define respective forms or motions within a multi-dimensional abstract space. Each dimension of the abstract space is defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb. A radial basis function is defined for each of the examples by scaling the radial basis function for each example. The scaling includes evaluating a matrix system to ascertain a plurality of scaling weights. Individual weights are used to scale the radial basis functions. The linear approximation and the radial basis functions are combined to provide a cardinal basis function. The cardinal basis function is used to render the new form or motion.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer-readable medium comprising computer-program instructions executable by a processor for a blending method, the computer-program instructions comprising instructions for: linearly approximating a degree of freedom that is associated with a new form or motion that is to be rendered based upon a plurality of examples that define respective forms or motions within a multi-dimensional abstract space, wherein each dimension of the abstract space is defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb; defining a radial basis function for each of the examples by scaling the radial basis function for each example, the scaling comprising evaluating a matrix system to ascertain a plurality of scaling weights, individual weights of which are used to scale the radial basis functions; combining the linear approximation and the radial basis functions to provide a cardinal basis function; and using the cardinal basis function to render the new form or motion. 2. A computer-readable medium as recited in claim 1, wherein the matrix system is configured so that its evaluation yields scaling weights which, when used to scale a corresponding radial basis functions, result in a combination of the radial basis functions and the linear approximation to provide the cardinal basis function. 3. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory comprising computer-program instructions executable by the processor for a blending method, the computer-program instructions comprising instructions for: linearly approximating a degree of freedom that is associated with a new form or motion that is to be rendered based upon a plurality of examples that define respective forms or motions within a multi-dimensional abstract space, wherein each dimension of the abstract space is defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb; defining a radial basis function for each of the examples by scaling the radial basis function for each example, the scaling comprising evaluating a matrix system to ascertain a plurality of scaling weights, individual weights of which are used to scale the radial basis functions; combining the linear approximation and the radial basis functions to provide a cardinal basis function; and using the cardinal basis function to render the new form or motion. 4. A computing device as recited in claim 3, wherein the matrix system is configured so that its evaluation yields scaling weights which, when used to scale a corresponding radial basis functions, result in a combination of the radial basis functions and the linear approximation to provide the cardinal basis function. 5. A computing device comprising: approximating means to linearly approximate a degree of freedom that is associated with a new form or motion that is to be rendered based upon a plurality of examples that define respective forms or motions within a multi-dimensional abstract space, wherein each dimension of the abstract space is defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb; defining means to define a radial basis function for each of the examples by scaling the radial basis function for each example by evaluating a matrix system to ascertain a plurality of scaling weights, individual weights of which are used to scale the radial basis functions; combining means to combine the linear approximation and the radial basis functions to provide a cardinal basis function; and rendering means to use the cardinal basis function to render the new form or motion. 6. A computing device as recited in claim 5, wherein the matrix system is configured so that its evaluation yields scaling weights which, when used to scale a corresponding radial basis functions, result in a combination of the radial basis functions and the linear approximation to provide the cardinal basis function. 