High throughput screening of crystallization of a target material is accomplished by simultaneously introducing a solution of the target material into a plurality of chambers of a microfabricated fluidic device. The microfabricated fluidic device is then manipulated to vary the solution condition in the chambers, thereby simultaneously providing a large number of crystallization environments. Control over changed solution conditions may result from a variety of techniques, including but not limited to metering volumes of crystallizing agent into the chamber by volume exclusion, by entrapment of volumes of crystallizing agent determined by the dimensions of the microfabricated structure, or by cross-channel injection of sample and crystallizing agent into an array of junctions defined by intersecting orthogonal flow channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for promoting interaction between two solutions, the method comprising: defining a first microfluidic chamber; priming the first microfluidic chamber with a first solution; defining a second microfluidic chamber; priming the second microfluidic chamber with a second solution; placing the first microfluidic chamber into fluid communication with the second microfluidic chamber to define a microfluidic free interface between the first solution and the second solution; and permitting free-interface diffusion to occur between the first solution and the second solution such that the first solution interacts with the second solution. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first solution comprises a crystallization target material solution; the second solution comprises a crystallizing agent solution; and the interaction comprises alteration of a solvent environment of the target material to promote crystallization of the target material. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first solution comprises a sample solution; the second solution comprises a reagent solution; and the interaction comprises a chemical reaction between the sample and the reagent. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein defining the first chamber and the second chamber comprises placing an elastomer block bearing a first patterned recess on a lower surface into contact with a substantially planar substrate. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein defining the first chamber and the second chamber comprises placing a substantially planar lower surface of an elastomer block into contact with a substrate bearing a first patterned recess. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein defining the first chamber and the second chamber comprises placing an elastomer block bearing a first patterned recess on a lower surface into contact with a substrate bearing a second patterned recess, the first patterned recess aligned with the second patterned recess. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein: the elastomer material is permeable to a gas; priming the first microfluidic chamber comprises introducing the first solution solution under pressure into the first microfluidic chamber to displace into the surrounding elastomer the gas formerly occupying the first chamber, thereby enabling substantially complete filling of the first chamber; and priming the second microfluidic chamber comprises introducing the second solution under pressure into the second microfluidic chamber to displace into the surrounding elastomer the gas formerly occupying the second chamber, thereby enabling substantially complete filling of the second chamber. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the first chamber and the second chamber are placed into fluid communication through a microfluidic flow channel defined between the elastomer block and the substrate. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the chambers are placed into fluidic communication through actuation of a valve present in the microfluidic flow channel. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the chambers are placed into fluidic communication through deactuation of a normally-open valve structure, such that application of a reduced pressure to a control recess crossing over the flow channel in the elastomer block causes an elastomer membrane defined between the control recess and the flow channel to relax out of the flow channel to define the microfluidic free interface. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the chambers are placed into fluidic communication through actuation of a normally-closed valve structure, such that application of a reduced pressure to a control recess crossing over the flow channel in the elastomer block causes an elastomer membrane defined between the control recess and the flow channel to be deflected out of the flow channel into the control channel to define the microfluidic free interface. 12. A method of capturing a concentration gradient between two fluids, the method comprising: providing a first fluid on a first side of an elastomer membrane present within a microfluidic flow channel; providing a second fluid on a second side of the elastomer membrane; displacing the elastomer membrane from the microfluidic flow channel to define a microfluidic free interface between the first fluid and the second fluid; allowing the first fluid and the second fluid to diffuse across the microfluidic free interface; and actuating a group of elastomer valves positioned along the flow channel at increasing distances from the microfluidic free interface to define a succession of chambers whose relative concentration of the first fluid and the second fluid reflects a time of diffusion. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the first fluid is a crystallizing agent and the second fluid is a crystallization target solution, such that a plurality of crystallizing conditions is created in the succession of chambers. 14. A method for forming crystals of a target material comprising: priming a first chamber of an elastomeric microfluidic device with a first predetermined volume of a target material solution; priming a second chamber of an elastomer micro fluidic device with a second predetermined volume of a crystallizing agent solution; and placing the first chamber into fluidic contact with the second chamber to allow free-interface diffusion between the target material and the crystallizing agent solution, such that an environment of the target material is changed to cause formation of crystal. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the first and second volumes are predetermined by dimensions of the first chamber and the second chamber. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising harvesting the crystal from the microfluidic device to use as a seed crystal for additional crystallization screening. 17. The method of claim 14 further comprising irradiating the crystal within the microfluidic device with x-ray radiation to determine a three dimensional structure of the crystal. 18. The method of claim 14 further comprising delivering a cryogen to the microfluidic device prior to irradiating the crystal. 19. The method of claim 14 wherein: a concentration and volume of material within the first and second chambers represents one of a plurality of crystallization conditions within the microfluidic device; and the method further comprises performing a second crystallization screening on a second microfluidic chip under a set of conditions related to the one of the plurality of crystallization conditions. 