A robotic device may include a plurality of concatenated assemblies, a tendon slidably connected to the plurality of concatenated assemblies, and an actuator that moves the tendon. Each assembly of the concatenated plurality may include a joining member that neighbors an adjacent assembly, a linkage that may fixedly connect to the joining member and may pivotably connect to the adjacent assembly, and an appendage that may extend from the joining member to a length. The appendage may include a connector through which the tendon may be connected to slide through. The connector may be adjustably disposable along the length of the appendage to a specified position thereon. The appendage may extend in a direction at a specified angle relative to the linkage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device comprising: a plurality of concatenated assemblies, each assembly including: a joining member that neighbors an adjacent assembly; a linkage that fixedly connects to the joining member and pivotably connects to the adjacent assembly; an appendage that extends from the joining member along at least a lateral direction having a specified angle to the linkage, wherein the appendage includes a connector that is adjustably disposable along the at least one lateral direction of the appendage to a position thereon; a tendon that slidably connects to at least one connector corresponding to the at least one appendage of the plurality of concatenated assemblies to form a connection; and an actuator that pulls the tendon in response to a command. 2. The robotic device, according to claim 1, wherein the position of the connector along the at least one lateral direction of the appendage is adjustable by an auxiliary actuator. 3. The robotic device, according to claim 2, wherein the auxiliary actuator laterally translates the connector along the at least one lateral direction of the appendage between a root that attaches the appendage to the joining member and an opposite end of the appendage. 4. The robotic device, according to claim 1, further comprising: a torsion actuator that rotates the appendage, wherein the appendage extends radially around the joining member to form a rim having a radius from the joining member, the radius of the rim varying angularly along the at least one lateral direction of the appendage. 5. The robotic device, according to claim 4, further comprising: an auxiliary tendon that slidably connects to at least one connector of the plurality of concatenated assemblies to form a connection, the auxiliary tendon being angularly separated along the rim from the tendon; and an auxiliary actuator that pulls the auxiliary tendon in response to an auxiliary command. 6. The robotic device, according to claim 1, wherein a linkage angle between the linkage and an adjacent linkage of the adjacent assembly is established absent the command to the actuator. 7. A robotic device comprising: first and second assemblies, the first assembly including: a first joining member that neighbors the second assembly; a first linkage that fixedly connects to the first joining member and pivotably connects to the second assembly; a first appendage that extends from the first joining member along a first lateral direction having an angle to the first linkage, wherein the first appendage includes a first connector that is adjustably disposable along the first lateral direction of the appendage to a first position thereon, the second assembly including: a second appendage that extends from a second joining member along a second lateral direction, wherein the second appendage includes a second connector that is adjustably disposable along the second lateral direction of the appendage to a second position thereon; a tendon slidably connected to the first connector and the second connector; and an actuator that pulls the tendon in response to a command. 8. The robotic device, according to claim 7, wherein the position of the first connector along the first lateral direction of the first appendage is adjustable by an auxiliary actuator. 9. The robotic device, according to claim 8, wherein the auxiliary actuator laterally translates the first connector along the first lateral direction of the appendage between a root that attaches the first appendage to the first joining member and an opposite end of the first appendage. 10. The robotic device, according to claim 7, wherein the second appendage further includes a second linkage, and the second appendage extends in a second direction having a second angle to the second linkage. 11. The robotic device, according to claim 10, wherein a linkage angle between the first linkage and the second linkage of the second assembly is established absent the command to the actuator. 12. The robotic device, according to claim 7, further comprising: a torsion actuator that rotates the first appendage, wherein the first appendage extends radially to form a rim having a radius from the first joining member, and the radius varies angularly along the first lateral direction of the first appendage. 13. A method for controlling a robotic device having a plurality of concatenated assemblies, the method comprising: fixedly connecting a linkage to a joining member of an assembly of the concatenated assemblies; extending an appendage from the joining member along at least a lateral direction having a specified angle to the linkage; attaching a connector to the appendage of at least one of the concatenated assemblies, wherein the connector is adjustably disposable along the at least one lateral direction of the appendage to a position thereon; pivotably connecting the linkage to an adjacent joining member of an adjacent assembly of the concatenated assemblies; connecting a tendon to slide through the connector corresponding to at least one appendage of the plurality of concatenated assemblies; and pulling the tendon by an actuator in response to a command. 14. The method, according to claim 13, further comprising: adjusting the position of the connector along the at least one lateral direction by an auxiliary actuator. 15. The method, according to claim 14, wherein adjusting the position by the auxiliary actuator further includes translating the connector along the at least one lateral direction of the appendage between a root that attaches the appendage to the joining member and an opposite end of the appendage. 16. The method, according to claim 13, further comprising: establishing a linkage angle between the linkage and an adjacent linkage of the adjacent assembly, the linkage angle being adjustable in response to the command to the actuator. 17. The method, according to claim 13, further comprising: extending the appendage radially from the joining member to form a rim having a radius from the joining member that angularly varies; and rotating the first appendage around the first joining member. 