The present invention generally relates to apparatuses having some characteristic(s) of traditional "roly-poly" toys, which are traditional passive toys that, when struck, wobble about their typically-rounded base but stay upright due to bottom-heavy weighting. Some embodiments of the present invention can be especially relevant to such an apparatus that is mobile and/or not totally passive. For example, some embodiments of the present invention have locomotive ability, for example, via one or more wheels or other type of roller(s)
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile toy vehicle, comprising: a wheel; a weight coupled to the wheel via a shaft, including a main weight and a sidewise adjustable weight, wherein the main weight is fixed to the shaft, and the sidewise adjustable weight is coupled to the main weight and is movable sidewise relative to the main weight; an outer body member fixedly coupled to the main weight and the sidewise adjustable weight, wherein the outer body member and the main weight are rotatable relative to the wheel so that the outer body member can swing relative to the wheel; a first motor to drive the shaft relative to the wheel so as to generate forward/backward swing of the main weight and the sidewise adjustable weight to thereby cause locomotion the vehicle; and a side-drive assembly configured to move the sidewise adjustable weight from side to side within a cavity formed by the main weight body. 2. The mobile toy vehicle as described in claim 1, wherein the sidewise adjustable weight is disposed within a cavity formed by the main weight. 3. The mobile toy vehicle as described in claim 2, wherein the side-drive assembly includes a swing arm configured to move the sidewise adjustable weight leftward or rightward. 4. The mobile toy vehicle as described in claim 3, wherein the swing arm is inserted in a vertical slot of the sidewise adjustable weight. 5. The mobile toy vehicle as described in claim 2, wherein the shaft is connected at its two ends to the wheel by a bearing, the bearing permitting the shaft to rotate relative to the wheel. 6. The mobile toy vehicle as described in claim 5, wherein the bearing includes an inner layer and an outer layer that can rotate relative to each other on ball bearings, wherein the inner layer is fixed to the shaft. 