Drug candidate screening methods are applied to discover compounds with activity against ion channel targets. The method may include modulating the transmembrane potential of host cells in a plurality of sample wells with a repetitive application of electric fields so as to set the transmembrane potential to a level corresponding to a pre-selected voltage dependent state of a target ion channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A high throughput screening system comprising: a plurality of wells having a high transmittance portion through which cells present in said wells are optically observable in an area of observation; at least two electrodes in each of said plurality of wells; an optical detector configured to detect light emanating from said wells through said high transmittance portion; a power supply connected to said electrodes; wherein said power supply and said electrodes are configured to apply a series of electric fields to cells within said area of observation, said electric fields having a spatial variation of less than 25% of a mean field intensity within said area of observation, said electric fields being effective to controllably alter the transmembrane potential of a portion of said cells; a data processing unit configured to store data indicative of light intensity detected by said optical detector and corresponding to ion channel activity of at least some of said cells. 2. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of wells are located in a multiwell plate. 3. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said high transmittance portion is made from a material selected from the group consisting of glass, quartz, cycloolefin, Aclar, polypropylene, polyethylene and polystyrene. 4. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said high transmittance portion exhibits less fluorescence when excited with UV light in the range of 250 nm to 400 nm than polystyrene. 5. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are located in a wall of said plurality of wells. 6. The high throughput screening system of claim 5, wherein said electrodes are located in a bottom layer of said plurality of wells. 7. The high throughput screening system of claim 2, wherein said multiwell plate comprises up to 96 wells. 8. The high throughput screening system of claim 2, wherein said multiwell plate comprises greater than 96 wells. 9. The high throughput screening system of claim 8, wherein said multiwell plate comprises greater than 384 wells. 10. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are made of a material selected from the group consisting of gold, platinum, palladium, chromium, molybdenum, iridium, tungsten, tantalum and titanium. 11. The high throughput screening system of claim 2, wherein said multiwell plate comprises optically opaque materials or pigments to reduce the transmission of light. 12. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are separated by a gap within the range of about 1 to 4 mm. 13. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are separated by a gap within the range of about 0.1 to 1 mm. 14. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are separated by a gap within the range of about 0.01 to 0.1 mm. 15. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said electrodes are charged to create an electrical field intensity of between 5 to 100 V/cm across said gap, and wherein the total charge transferred across the surface area of the electrically conductive material, in fluidic connection with the interior of the well is less than or equal to 100 .mu.C/mm.sup.2. 16. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of wells further comprise an insulator orientated and configured so as to create an area of observation within said well in which the electrical field intensity varies by no more than 10% from the mean electrical field intensity when said at least two strips of electrically conductive material are charged to create an electrical field intensity of between 5 to 100 V/cm across said gap, and wherein the total charge transferred across the surface area of the electrically conductive material, in fluidic connection with the interior of the well is less than or equal to 100 .mu.C/mm.sup.2. 17. The high throughput screening system of claim 1, wherein said plurality of wells further comprise at least two satellite electrical conductors. 