A laser scanning system can be used in construction projects to generate a field survey. An architect or engineer can use the field survey to create construction drawings. In addition, relevant points from the construction drawings can be identified at the construction site with the scanning system. Further, earth moving equipment can be controlled using the same information. The laser scanning system can be used to determine if two parts can be mated together by scanning and comparing the parts that are to be mated. The laser scanning system can further be used to determine if an object can be moved through an opening in a structure by comparing scan points of the structure with scan points from the object. The laser scanning system can be used to identify objects within the site, to build databases that have relevant information about the objects, and to guide reproducing machines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for visibly identifying a position at a construction site of a user selected specific location of interest within a three-dimensional model of a structure to be constructed at that site, the method comprising the steps of: scanning a site with a laser scanner to create a field survey, the field survey having a number of scan points; designing a three-dimensional model of the structure to be constructed at the site using the scan points from the field survey of the site, the three-dimensional model of the structure having a number of defined points that are positionally related to the scan points in the field survey; rescanning the site with the laser scanner to obtain rescan data, the rescan data corresponding to at least a portion of the number of the original scan points; registering the rescan data with the defined points from the three-dimensional model of the structure in order to form registered data of the structure to be constructed; and thereafter illuminating a position at the site with a visible laser beam from the laser scanner that corresponds with a user selected specific location of interest within the three-dimensional model of the structure. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: displaying the registered data to a user; and allowing the user to select a location of interest from the displayed data. 3. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: marking the position corresponding to the location of interest whereby the marked position can be used in the construction of the structure. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining an amount of material to be added or removed from the site before construction using the registered data; and illuminating a position at the site with a laser beam from the laser scanner that corresponds with the material to be added or removed. 5. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: illuminating the site with a laser beam from the laser scanner in order to trace out key features of the structure to be constructed. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the position is illuminated by illuminating a device positioned above the surface of the site. 7. A method according to claim 6, wherein: the device reflects the laser beam back to the laser scanner, whereby the laser scanner indicates direction to reach the location of interest. 8. A method for monitoring construction of a structure at a site, comprising the steps of: scanning a site with a laser scanner to create a field survey, the field survey having a number of scan points; designing a three-dimensional model of the structure to be constructed at the site using the scan points from the field survey of the site, the three-dimensional model of the structure having a number of defined points that are positionally related to the scan points in the field survey; rescanning the site with the laser scanner to obtain rescan data, the rescan data corresponding to at least a portion of the number of the original scan points; registering the rescan data with the defined points from the three-dimensional model of the structure in order to form registered data of the structure to be constructed; and thereafter illuminating the site with a visible laser beam from the laser scanner in order to trace out key features of the structure as the structure is being constructed in order to determine variations between the structure and the three-dimensional model of the structure during construction. 9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: marking on the structure any deviations between the structure being constructed and the three-dimensional model of the structure. 10. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: displaying the registered data to a user; and allowing the user to select a location of interest from the displayed data; and illuminating a position at the site with a laser beam from the laser scanner that corresponds with the location of interest. 11. A method according to claim 10, further comprising: marking the position corresponding to the location of interest whereby the marked position can be used in the construction of the structure. 12. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: using the registered data to determine an amount of material to be added or removed from one of the site and the structure during construction; and illuminating a position at the site with a laser beam from the laser scanner that corresponds with the material to be added or removed. 13. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: rescanning the structure after completion of construction in order to generate a three-dimensional model of the as-built structure. 