The present invention was developed by a neurosurgeon and seeks to mimic the results of primate neurological research which is indicative of a human's actual neurological control structures and logic. Specifically, the motor proprioceptive and tactile neurophysiology functioning of the surgeon's hands and internal hand control system from the muscular level through the intrafusal fiber system of the neural network is considered in creating the robot and method of operation of the present invention. Therefore, the surgery is not slowed down as in the art, because the surgeon is in conscious and subsconscious natural agreement and harmonization with the robotically actuated surgical instruments based on neurological mimicing of the surgeon's behavior with the functioning of the robot. Therefore, the robot can enhance the surgeon's humanly limited senses while not introducing disruptive variables to the surgeon's naturally occurring operation of his neurophysiology. This is therefore also a new field, neurophysiological symbiotic robotics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a surgical instrument connected to a surgical robot for a surgeon comprising the steps of: locating a controller robot between a handle and a surgical instrument; sensing incident tremor force components present generated by the surgeon's hand on the handle; modulating the incident tremor force components in the controller robot; and outputting through the controller robot a modulated tremor force on the surgical instrument. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: displaying a signal representing the modulated tremor force on a display. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the step of: controlling and adjusting the modulated tremor force to the surgeon's settings via an input. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: attaching the controller robot to a patient's head via cranial screws. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the modulation of the incident tremor force is outputted in all anatomically possible movement directions of the human hand. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the modulation of the incident tremor force is determined by the surgeon's instructions and supplemented in the controller robot with historical data specific to the surgeon. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein at the step of outputting through the controller robot a modulated tremor force on the surgical instrument; the output is scaled and/or smoothed. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein at the step of outputting through the controller robot a modulated tremor force on the surgical instrument; the output is smoothed to eliminate anomalies. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the smoothing comprises modulating a frequency signal derived from the incident tremor force components in the controller robot. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the smoothing improves a natural neurological calibration of the surgeon's hand/eye coordination neural circuits and brain function. 11. A method of controlling a surgical instrument connected to a surgical robot comprising the steps of: locating a controller robot between a handle and a surgical instrument; sensing incident reflectance force from a sensor when the surgical instrument is placed against body tissue; modulating the reflectance force components in the controller robot; and outputting through the controller robot a modulated reflectance force on the handle. 12. The method of claim 11 comprising the further step of: computing the tissue elasticity coefficient in the controller robot from the sensed reflectance force. 13. The method of claim 11 comprising the further step of: scaling the sensed reflectance force to a scaled output level for outputting through the controller robot. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein during the scaling step, naturally human unsensable reflectance forces are scaled upwards by the controller robot to enable human level sensing on the handle. 15. The method of claim 11 wherein the modulation scaling step includes the further step of outputting in all anatomically possible movement directions of the human hand. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the output is outputted in all anatomically possible movement directions of the human hand. 17. A method of controlling by a surgeon a surgical instrument connected to a surgical robot comprising the steps of: locating a controller robot between a handle and a surgical instrument; sensing incident tremor force components (TF) present on the handle generated by the surgeon's hand; sensing an incident motion force (MF) component present on the handle generated by the surgeon's hand natural motion (NM) as the surgeon moves the handle; modulating and scaling the incident tremor force (MTF) components in the controller robot; modulating and scaling the incident motion force (MMF) components in the controller robot; creating a modulated and scaled output movement (MSOM) including the modulated and scaled incident motion force (MMF) and the modulated and scaled incident tremor force (MTF) in the controller robot for moving the surgical instrument via the controller robot, with all anatomically possible degrees of human hand motion freedom, in response to the natural movement (NM) inputted by the surgeon on the handle; outputting the modulated and scaled movement (MSOM) to move the surgical instrument with all anatomically possible degrees of human hand motion freedom, in response to a respective natural movement (NM) inputted by the surgeon on the handle; sensing incident reflectance force (RF) components from the surgical instrument in the controller robot when the surgical instrument is near body tissue; modulating and scaling the reflectance force (RFMS) components in the controller robot; outputting at the handle the modulated and scaled reflectance force (RFMS); sensing contact in a binary manner with the tissue (TC) in the controller robot; sending a contact signal to a display and creating in the controller robot a scaled jerk motion in the handle to represent contact to the surgeon. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the steps of: viewing the tip of the surgical instrument by locating a mini-endoscope on the robot controller to gather an image; and displaying the image on a display including instant replay capability. 19. The method of claim 17 further comprising the step of: viewing the surgical instruments through a microscope viewer. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein at the step of modulating and scaling the incident tremor force (MTF) components in the controller robot; the modulation included a smoothing of the incident tremor force (TF) to remove anomalies in the modulated and scaled incident tremor force (MTF). 21. A surgical robot for a surgeon comprising: a controller robot located between a handle and a surgical instrument; a sensor for sensing incident tremor force components present generated by the surgeon's hand on the handle; a modulator for modulating the incident tremor force components in the controller robot; and a motor for outputting through the controller robot a modulated tremor force on the surgical instrument. 22. A surgical robot comprising: a controller robot located between a handle and a surgical instrument; a sensor for sensing an incident reflectance force from the sensor when the surgical instrument is placed near body tissue; a modulator for modulating the reflectance force components in the controller robot; and a motor for outputting through the controller robot a modulated reflectance force on the handle. 23. A surgical robot comprising: a controller robot located between a handle and a surgical instrument; a first sensor for sensing incident tremor force components (TF) present on the handle generated by the surgeon's hand; a second sensor for sensing an incident motion force (MF) component present on the handle generated by the surgeon's hand natural motion (NM) as the surgeon moves the handle; a first modulator for modulating and scaling the incident tremor force (MTF) components in the controller robot; a second modulator for modulating and scaling the incident motion force (MMF) components in the controller robot; a third modulator for creating a modulated and scaled output movement (MSOM) including the modulated and scaled incident motion force (MMF) and the modulated and scaled incident tremor force (MTF) in the controller robot for moving the surgical instrument via the controller robot, with all anatomically possible degrees of human hand motion freedom, in response to the natural movement (NM) inputted by the surgeon on the handle; an first interface for outputting the modulated and scaled movement (MSOM) to move the surgical instrument with all anatomically possible degrees of human hand motion freedom, in response to a respective natural movement (NM) inputted by the surgeon on the handle; a third sensor for sensing incident reflectance force (RF) components from the surgical instrument in the controller robot when the surgical instrument is near body tissue; a fourth modulator for modulating and scaling the reflectance force (RFMS) components in the controller robot; a second interface for outputting at the handle the modulated and scaled reflectance force (RFMS); sensing contact in a binary manner with the tissue (TC) in the controller robot; and a third interface for sending a contact signal to a display and creating in the controller robot a scaled jerk motion in the handle to represent contact to the surgeon. 