A valve stem installation system includes a robotic arm for moving a valve stem insertion device around the lip of wheel. The system also includes a pair of valve stem aperture sensors positioned on the robotic arm adjacent the valve stem insertion device and moveable around the lip of the wheel. The sensors can be positioned on opposite sides of the valve stem insertion device. When the first sensor locates the valve stem aperture, movement of the robotic arm can be slowed. When the second sensor locates the valve stem aperture, movement of the robotic arm can be stopped. The conveyor unit can include an identification station to sense the configuration of the wheel. A controller can select the appropriate valve stem to insert in the valve stem aperture in response to the sensed configuration of the wheel.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for inserting a valve stem into a wheel having a lip portion and an aperture defined therein as said device moves around the wheel, said device comprising: a pair of plates adjacent one another with one of said plates having a pair of emitters and the other of said plates having a pair of receivers disposed in parallel relationship with said emitters with the opposite sides of the lip portion facing said pair of receivers and said pair of emitters; a pin connected to one of said plates for holding the valve stem and inserting the valve stem into the aperture; and said plates movable in unison around the lip portion in a reversible direction for inserting the valve stem into the aperture as said pin is aligned with the aperture. 2. A device as set forth in claim 1 including a controller connected to said pair of emitters and said pair of receivers. 3. A device as set forth in claim 2 wherein said pair of emitters are light emitters for emitting a light beam and said pair of receivers are light receivers for receiving the light beam. 4. A device as set forth in claim 3 wherein each of said plates are moveable in said reversible direction at a predetermined angular velocity with each of said emitters and said receivers passing through the aperture as each of said receivers absorbs the light beam emitted by the respective emitters. 5. A device as set forth in claim 4 wherein said controller determines the interval between each of said light beams received by each of said receivers and slows the movement of said plates around the lip portion for aligning said pin with the aperture for inserting the valve stem into the aperture. 6. A device for inserting a valve stem into a wheel having a lip portion and an aperture defined therein as said device moves around the wheel, said device comprising: a pair of plates adjacent one another with one of said plates having a pair of emitters and the other of said plates having a pair of receivers disposed in parallel relationship with said emitters with the opposite sides of the lip portion facing said pair of receivers and said pair of emitters, and a pin connected to one of said plates and disposed between at least one of said pair of receivers and said pair of emitters for holding the valve stem and inserting the valve stem into the aperture as said plates are moved in unison around the lip portion in a reversible direction for locating the aperture. 7. A device as set forth in claim 6 including a controller connected to said pair of emitters and said pair of receivers. 8. A device as set forth in claim 7 wherein said pair of emitters are light emitters for emitting a light beam and said pair of receivers are light receivers for receiving the light beam. 9. A device as set forth in claim 8 wherein each of said plates are moveable in said reversible direction at a predetermined angular velocity with each of said emitters and said receivers passing through the aperture as each of said receivers absorbs the light beam emitted by the respective emitters. 10. A device as set forth in claim 9 wherein said controller determines the interval between each of said light beams received by each of said receivers and slows the movement of said plates around the lip portion for aligning said pin with the aperture for inserting the valve stem into the aperture. 11. An apparatus for inserting a valve stem in an aperture defined by a wheel having at least one lip, said apparatus comprising: a first plate having a first sensing device for locating the aperture as said first plate moves around the lip; a pin connected to said first plate for supporting the valve stem insertable in the aperture; a second plate movable in unison with said first plate, said second plate having a second sensing device disposed in parallel relationship with said first sensing device for locating the aperture for inserting the valve stem into the aperture detected by said first and second sensing devices with said first sensing device includes a pair of optical emitters oppositely spaced from said pin; and robotic apparatus engaging said first and second plates for moving said first and second plates in unison around the wheel to locate the aperture. 12. The apparatus as set forth in claim 11 wherein said second sensing device includes a pair of optical receivers spaced one from the other with one of said optical receivers and one of said optical emitters aligned along a first path extending substantially parallel to said pin and the other of said optical emitters and the other of said optical receivers being aligned along a second path extending substantially parallel to said pin. 13. A robotic device for inserting a valve stem into a wheel having a lip portion and an aperture defined therein as said device moves around the wheel, said device comprising: a pair of plates adjacent one another with one of said plates having a pair of light emitters for emitting light beams and the other of said plates having a pair of light receivers disposed in parallel relationship with said pair of light emitters for receiving said light beams with the opposite side of the lip portion facing said pair of light receivers and said pair of light emitters as said plates are movable in unison around the lip portion in a reversible direction for inserting the valve stem into the aperture; a pin connected to one of said plates for holding the valve stem and inserting the valve stem into the aperture; a controller connected to said pair of light emitters and said pair of light receivers for regulating said reversible direction of said plates as each of said light emitters and each of said light receivers passes over the aperture with each of said light receivers absorbing the light beam emitted by the respective light emitter and for determining the interval between each of said light beams received by each of said light receivers to slow the movement of said plates around the lip portion thereby aligning said pin with the aperture for inserting the valve stem into the aperture. 