Aspects of the invention relate to a method and a device for transferring workpieces. In the method, at least one first handling device positions and/or securely holds at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine, and, in at least one shaping process in the shaping machine, the at least one first handling device subsequently transfers the workpiece to at least one second handling device. The at least one workpiece is then aligned in a predetermined (or predeterminable) position when it is received by the at least one second handling device with the assistance of the at least one positioning means and a positioning aid.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine; transferring the at least one workpiece with at least one first handling device from the shaping machine to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; and producing at least one positioning aid on the workpiece during the at least one shaping process, wherein the produced positioning aid cooperates with at least one corresponding positioning means of a gripping mechanism of the second handling device. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising aligning the at least one workpiece in a predetermined or predeterminable position when the at least one workpiece is received by the at least one second handling device with the assistance of the at least one positioning means and the at least one positioning aid. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising one or more of: (i) transferring the at least one workpiece from at least one first gripping mechanism of the first handling device to at least one second gripping mechanism of the second handling device; or (ii) moving any one or more of the at least one first gripping mechanism of the first handling device, or the at least one second gripping mechanism of the second handling device, into a transfer position for transferring the at least one workpiece by means of the corresponding first or second handling device. 4. The method as recited in claim 3, further comprising any one or more of: (i) gripping the at least one workpiece with the second gripping mechanism of the at least one second handling device while the at least one workpiece is held by the first gripping mechanism; or (ii) releasing the at least one workpiece from the first gripping mechanism when the at least one workpiece is aligned in the second gripping mechanism. 5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one shaping process in the shaping machine is carried out using at least one hollow mold, and carried out by at least one pair of tools that are movable relative to one another, wherein a peripheral burr is produced on the at least one workpiece during the at least one shaping process. 6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the produced at least one positioning aid comprises at least one projection and/or at least one recess. 7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein any one or more of the at least one positioning aid or at least one or each positioning means is rotationally symmetrical, and has the design of a cone, cylinder, prism, pyramid, or oblong burr or groove. 8. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: providing the at least one positioning aid on one or more peripheral burrs on the at least one workpiece; and removing the at least one positioning aid and the one or more peripheral burrs from the at least one workpiece after transferring the at least one workpiece to the at least one second handling device. 9. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising providing the at least one positioning aid on a side of the at least one workpiece that opposes a side on which at least one first gripping mechanism engages the workpiece. 10. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising producing, during the at least one shaping process, at least two positioning aids on the at least one workpiece, wherein the at least two positioning aids cooperate and/or engage two corresponding positioning means on at least one gripping mechanism for the at least one second handling device. 11. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising any one or more of: gripping the at least one workpiece, after shaping, at a peripheral burr on the workpiece produced during the at least one shaping process with at least one first gripping mechanism; or gripping the at least one workpiece, during receiving, with the at least one second gripping mechanism on a side of the at least one workpiece on which the at least one positioning aid is provided. 12. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising any one or more of: (i) engaging, with the at least one second gripping mechanism, the at least one positioning aid via the corresponding at least one positioning means, whereby the workpiece is aligned or capable of being aligned in a predetermined or predeterminable position during receiving; (ii) shaping the at least one positioning aid wherein the at least one workpiece avoids twisting or sliding when the at least one positioning aid and at least one positioning means are cooperating; or (iii) positioning the at least one positioning aid and the at least one positioning means wherein the at least one workpiece avoids twisting or sliding when the at least one positioning aid and at least one positioning means are cooperating. 13. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: gripping, with a first or second gripping mechanism, the at least one workpiece using first and second gripping elements that are movable relative to one another; wherein the at least one positioning means is provided on at least one of the first and second gripping elements on the first or second gripping mechanism. 14. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the at least one first handling device performing any one or more of: (i) securely holding the at least one workpiece during the at least one shaping process; (ii) moving the at least one workpiece in the shaping machine from one working region to at least one other working region; or (iii) positioning the at least one workpiece in the shaping machine from one shaping position to at least one other shaping position. 15. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the at least one second handling device performing any one or more of: (i) positioning the at least one workpiece in a processing machine; or (ii) securely holding the at least one workpiece in the processing machine during a further machining process. 16. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein the first and second gripping mechanisms each comprise at least one pair of gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the at least one workpiece; wherein the at least one positioning means is provided on any one or more of: (i) on the gripping elements for the second gripping mechanism; or (ii) on at least one of a plurality of mutually facing interior sides of the at least one pair of gripping elements on at least one end thereof. 17. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the shaping machine is a forging machine. 18. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the shaping machine is a drop forging machine. 19. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the produced positioning aid cooperates with at least one corresponding positioning means of a gripping mechanism of the second handling device; and one or more of: (i) transferring the at least one workpiece from at least one first gripping mechanism of the first handling device to at least one second gripping mechanism of the second handling device; or (ii) moving any one or more of the at least one first gripping mechanism of the first handling device, or the at least one second gripping mechanism of the second handling device, into a transfer position for transferring the at least one workpiece by means of the corresponding first or second handling device. 20. The method as recited in claim 19, further comprising any one or more of: i. gripping the at least one workpiece with the second gripping mechanism of the at least one second handling device while the at least one workpiece is held by the first gripping mechanism; or ii. releasing the at least one workpiece from the first gripping mechanism when the at least one workpiece is aligned in the second gripping mechanism. 21. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; and producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the produced positioning aid cooperates with at least one corresponding positioning means of a gripping mechanism of the second handling device; wherein the at least one shaping process in the shaping machine is carried out using at least one hollow mold, and carried out by at least one pair of tools that are movable relative to one another, wherein a peripheral burr is produced on the at least one workpiece during the at least one shaping process. 22. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the positioning aid cooperates with at least one positioning means of the second handling device; and the at least one first handling device performing any or more of: (i) securely holding the at least one workpiece during the at least one shaping process; (ii) moving the at least one workpiece in the shaping machine from one working region to at least one other working region; or (iii) positioning the at least one workpiece in the shaping machine from one shaping position to at least one other shaping position. 23. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the positioning aid cooperates with at least one positioning means of the second handling device; and providing the at least one positioning aid on side of the at least one workpiece that opposes a side on which at least one first gripping mechanism engages the workpiece. 24. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the positioning aid cooperates with at least one positioning means of the second handling device; and producing, during the at least one shaping process, at least two positioning aids on the at least one workpiece, wherein the at least two positioning aids cooperate and/or engage two corresponding positioning means on at least one gripping mechanism for the at least one second handling device. 25. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the positioning aid cooperates with at least one positioning means of the second handling device; and the at least one second handling device performing any one or more of: (i) positioning the at least one workpiece in a processing machine; or (ii) securely holding the at least one workpiece in the processing machine during a further machining. 26. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the positioning aid cooperates with at least one positioning means of the second handling device; and one or more of: (i) engaging, with at least one gripping mechanism, the at least one positioning aid via the corresponding at least one positioning means, whereby the workpiece is aligned or capable of being aligned in a predetermined or predeterminable position during receiving; (ii) shaping the at least one positioning aid wherein the at least one workpiece avoids twisting or sliding when the at least one positioning aid and at least one positioning means are cooperating; or (iii) positioning the at least one positioning aid and the at least one positioning means wherein the at least one workpiece avoids twisting or sliding when the at least one positioning aid and at least one positioning means are cooperating. 27. A method for transferring workpieces comprising: positioning at least one workpiece in a working region of a shaping machine with at least one first handling device, wherein the at least one workpiece is securely held; subsequently transferring the at least one workpiece to at least one second handling device after at least one shaping process in the shaping machine; producing at least one positioning aid during the at least one shaping process, wherein the positioning aid cooperates with at least one positioning means of the second handling device; and gripping, with a first or second gripping mechanism, the at least one workpiece using first and second gripping elements that are movable relative to one another; wherein the at least one positioning means is provided on at least one of the first and second gripping elements on the first or second gripping mechanism. 