An adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus includes a gun manifold, a dispensing module, and a dispensing orifice. The inlet port of the gun manifold is directly coupled with a reservoir of adhesive hot melt liquid that is fixedly attached to the manifold. The contents of the reservoir are under pressure so that the adhesive hot melt liquid is dispensed from the adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus without the need for heated supply hoses to connect the inlet port of the manifold to a remote source of adhesive hot melt liquid. Preferably, the adhesive liquid dispensing system is coupled with a robot that controls the positioning of the system during an adhesive liquid dispensing operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus movable by a robot between desired positions, the apparatus comprising: an adhesive liquid dispenser having a liquid inlet port and configured to be coupled to the robot for movement to the desired positions; a reservoir coupled with said adhesive liquid dispenser in communication with said inlet port and having a recharge port, said reservoir configured to contain an adhesive liquid under pressure so as to cause the adhesive liquid to enter said adhesive liquid dispenser through said liquid inlet port; a heating element operatively coupled with said reservoir and configured to maintain said adhesive liquid within said reservoir at a temperature; and a docking station for supplying additional adhesive liquid and including a connecting port for releasably coupling to said recharge port; wherein said docking station is configured to fill said reservoir with the additional adhesive liquid when the robot moves said adhesive liquid dispenser such that said recharge port is coupled to said connecting port. 2. The adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a robot coupled with said adhesive liquid dispenser and configured to move the liquid dispenser to desired positions. 3. The adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the adhesive liquid dispenser further comprises: a gun manifold; and a dispensing module coupled to said gun manifold. 4. The liquid dispensing apparatus of claim 1, wherein said reservoir further comprises: a level detector configured to detect an amount of said adhesive liquid within said reservoir. 5. An adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus comprising: an adhesive liquid dispenser having an inlet port; a reservoir coupled with said liquid dispenser and having an opening in communication with said inlet port and having a recharge port, said reservoir configured to contain an adhesive liquid under pressure so as to cause the adhesive liquid to enter said adhesive liquid dispenser through said inlet port, a level detector configured to detect an amount of said adhesive liquid within said reservoir; a heating element operatively coupled with said reservoir and configured to provide heat to the liquid contained in said reservoir; a docking station configured to contain a supply of additional adhesive liquid and including a connecting port for releasably coupling with said recharge port of said reservoir; and a control system in communication with said reservoir and a robot and configured to cause said robot to engage said docking station with said reservoir based on the amount of adhesive liquid detected within said reservoir by said level indicator, wherein said docking station is configured to fill said reservoir from said supply of additional adhesive liquid when said recharge port is coupled with said connecting port. 6. An adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus comprising: an adhesive liquid dispenser having a liquid inlet port; a reservoir coupled with said adhesive liquid dispenser in communication with said inlet port, said reservoir configured to contain an adhesive liquid under pressure so as to cause the adhesive liquid to enter said adhesive liquid dispenser through said liquid inlet port, said reservoir comprising: an opening configured to communicate said adhesive liquid to said inlet port; a pressure inlet port configured to receive a fluid used to pressurize said adhesive liquid within said liquid adhesive reservoir; a pressure relief port configured to relieve pressure within said reservoir; a level detector configured to detect a level of said adhesive liquid within said reservoir; a recharge port configured to communicate with an outlet port of a docking station to receive additional adhesive liquid within said reservoir; and a heating element operatively coupled with said reservoir and configured to maintain said adhesive liquid within said reservoir at a temperature. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising: an interface operatively coupling said pressure inlet port, said relief port, and said recharge port to a control system. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said control system is configured to open said relief port, open said recharge port and close said pressure inlet port so as to cause the additional adhesive liquid of the docking station to fill the reservoir. 