A device is provided for feeding an endless welding wire stored in a first container in a first coil generally concentric with a first vertical axis and a second container in a second coil generally concentric with a second vertical axis spaced longitudinally from the first axis in a given direction. The novel device including a track element extending in a path generally including the coil axes and extending above the coils in the given direction. A grommet, with a vertical wire receiving guide opening, is mounted on a support mechanism carried by the track element for movement of the grommet above the coils and along the path of the track element.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A device for feeding toward a welding station a welding wire stored in a first container in a first coil generally concentric with a first vertical axis and a second container in a second coil generally concentric with a second vertical axis spaced longitudinally from said first axis in a given direction, said device comprising: a track element extending in a path generally including said axes and extending above said coils in said given direction; a grommet with a vertical wire receiving guide opening surrounding a guide axis and having a lower entrant end; a support mechanism mounting said grommet on said track element for movement of the grommet above said coils and along said path; and, a mechanism with an input sensor mounted on said support mechanism and spaced below said grommet entrant end a distance defining a gap below said grommet to sense displacement of said welding wire generally in said given direction and a motion device responsive to said sensed displacement to move said grommet in the direction of said displacement, whereby said wire is generally aligned with said guide axis by said mechanism as it moves through said gap. 2. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said path is generally linear. 3. A device as defined in claim 2 wherein said mechanism is a servo mechanism. 4. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said mechanism is a servo mechanism. 5. A device as defined in claim 4 wherein said containers are drums. 6. A device as defined in claim 3 wherein said containers are drums. 7. A device as defined in claim 2 wherein said containers are drums. 8. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said containers are drums. 9. A device as defined in claim 4 wherein said containers are boxes. 10. A device as defined in claim 3 wherein said containers are boxes. 11. A device as defined in claim 2 wherein said containers are boxes. 12. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said containers are boxes. 13. A device as defined in claim 12 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 14. A device as defined in claim 13 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 15. A device as defined in claim 11 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 16. A device as defined in claim 15 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 17. A device as defined in claim 10 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 18. A device as defined in claim 17 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 19. A device as defined in claim 9 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 20. A device as defined in claim 19 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 21. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 22. A device as defined in claim 21 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 23. A device as defined in claim 7 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 24. A device as defined in claim 23 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 25. A device as defined in claim 6 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 26. A device as defined in claim 25 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 27. A device as defined in claim 5 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 28. A device as defined in claim 27 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 29. A device as defined in claim 4 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 30. A device as defined in claim 29 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 31. A device as defined in claim 3 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 32. A device as defined in claim 31 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 33. A device as defined in claim 2 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 34. A device as defined in claim 33 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 35. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said track element includes at least first and second rods and said support mechanism is a carrier movable along said first rod with a guide passage for said passage along said second rod. 36. A device as defined in claim 35 wherein said first rod is a rodless cylinder with an internal movable magnetic element and said carrier includes a magnetic coupling surrounding said first rod and movable with said magnetic element. 37. A device as defined in claim 32 wherein said motion device includes air cylinders to move said internal magnetic element. 38. A device as defined in claim 30 wherein said motion device includes air cylinders to move said internal magnetic element. 39. A device as defined in claim 32 wherein said servo mechanism is a pneumatic servo mechanism. 40. A device as defined in claim 31 wherein said servo mechanism is a pneumatic servo mechanism. 41. A device as defined in claim 30 wherein said servo mechanism is a pneumatic servo mechanism. 42. A device as defined in claim 29 wherein said servo mechanism is a pneumatic servo mechanism. 43. A device as defined in claim 4 wherein said servo mechanism is a pneumatic servo mechanism. 44. A device as defined in claim 3 wherein said servo mechanism is a pneumatic servo mechanism. 45. A device as defined in claim 12 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 46. A device as defined in claim 11 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 47. A device as defined in claim 10 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 48. A device as defined in claim 9 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 49. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 50. A device as defined in claim 7 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 51. A device as defined in claim 6 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 52. A device as defined in claim 5 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 53. A device as defined in claim 4 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 54. A device as defined in claim 3 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 55. A device as defined in claim 2 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 56. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said grommet is spaced above said containers a distance less than 2 feet. 57. A device as defined in claim 12 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 58. A device as defined in claim 11 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 59. A device as defined in claim 10 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 60. A device as defined in claim 9 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 61. A device as defined in claim 8 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 62. A device as defined in claim 7 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 63. A device as defined in claim 6 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 64. A device as defined in claim 5 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 65. A device as defined in claim 4 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 66. A device as defined in claim 3 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 67. A device as defined in claim 2 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 68. A device as defined in claim 1 including a wire guide sleeve above said grommet for directing said weld wire toward said welding station. 