Methods for dispensing tools that can be employed to generate multi-element arrays of sample material on a substrate surface. The resulting substrates are also provided. The substrates surfaces can be flat or geometrically altered to include wells of receiving material. The tool can dispense a spot of fluid to a substrate surface by spraying the fluid from the pin, contacting the substrate surface or forming a drop that touches against the substrate surface. The tool can form an array of sample material by dispensing sample material in a series of steps, while moving the pin to different locations above the substrate surface to form the sample array. The prepared sample arrays are passed to a plate assembly that disposes the sample arrays for analysis by mass spectrometry. To this end, a mass spectrometer is provided that generates a set of spectra signals that are indicative of the composition of the sample material under analysis.
Claims We claim: 1. A substrate, comprising a surface comprising material deposited at a plurality of discrete locations thereon thereby forming an array of spots thereon, wherein: the material comprises matrix material and a sample for matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometric analysis; the material in each spot is in amount that results from deposition of a defined and controlled sub-nanoliter to low-nanoliter volume of a solution containing the material; MALDI mass spectra of the sample obtained directly from each spot are reproducible from spot to spot within the array of spots. 2. A substrate of claim 1, wherein the surface is flat. 3. A substrate of claim 1 having wells disposed on the surface, wherein the material is deposited in the wells. 4. A substrate of claim 3, wherein the wells have a rough interior surface. 5. A substrate of claim 1, wherein the surface is pitted. 6. A substrate of claim 5, that comprises pits with beads therein. 7. A substrate of claim 1, comprising an array of pins wherein the material is deposited on the end of the pin. 8. A substrate of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises silica gel, controlled pore glass, magnetic beads, cross-linked dextrans, agarose, cellulose, glass, metal, or plastic. 9. A substrate of claim 8, wherein the metal is selected from the group consisting of steel, gold, silver aluminum and copper. 10. A substrate of claim 1, wherein the material further comprises a nucleic acid. 11. A substrate of claim 1, selected from the group consisting of capillaries, a capillary, a flat supports and membranes. 12. A substrate of claim 11, wherein the membrane comprises polyethylene, polypropylene, polyamide or polyvinylidenedifluoride. 13. A substrate of claim 1 that comprises silicon. 14. A substrate of claim 13 that is a silicon wafer. 15. The substrate of claim 13 that is a pitted silicon chip. 16. The substrate of claim 13 that comprises a hydrophilic flat surface. 17. A substrate of claim 1, wherein the surface of the substrate comprises metal, plastic, a membrane, polymeric material and a metal-grafted polymer. 18. A substrate of claim 1, wherein the surface of the substrate is functionalized chemically, functionalized with beads or functionalized with dendrite trees of captured material. 19. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the discrete locations are approximately 500 .mu.m apart. 20. The substrate of claim 1 that comprises a hydrophilic flat surface. 21. A substrate of claim 1, wherein the material at each location is in an amount that results from deposition of a defined and controlled 0.2 to 20 nanoliter volume containing the material on the surface. 22. A substrate of claim 21, wherein the material further comprises a nucleic acid. 23. The substrate of claim 21 that comprises a hydrophilic flat surface. 24. The substrate of claim 23 that comprises silica gel, controlled pore glass, magnetic beads, cross-linked dextrans, agarose, cellulose, glass, metal, or plastic. 25. The substrate of claim 21 that comprises silicon. 26. The substrate of claim 25 that is a silicon wafer. 27. The substrate of claim 1, wherein the discrete locations are hydrophilic. 28. The substrate of claim 27 that comprises silica gel, controlled pore glass, magnetic beads, cross-linked dextrans, agarose, cellulose, glass, metal, or plastic. 29. The substrate of claim 27 that comprises silicon. 30. The substrate of claim 29 that is a silicon wafer. 31. The substrate of claim 27, wherein the material further comprises a nucleic acid. 