A memory system and a method as well as robotic apparatus are strong against noise and excellent in memory capacity, volume of calculation, quantity of physical memory, and memory responsiveness. It is designed to store, in the frame form, the first information on a symbol as well as the second information on a symbol supplied separately from a variety of inputs in relation to competitive neurons corresponding to the symbol in a way to strengthen the connection between relevant input neurons and competitive neurons in response to the input patterns of a variety of inputs for each symbol with the use of a competitive neural network having a set of input layers composed of a plurality of input neurons and a set of competitive layers composed of a plurality of competitive neurons.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A memory system, comprising: memory means for storing first information on a symbol in a way to strengthen a connection between relevant input neurons and competitive neurons in response to input patterns of a variety of inputs for each symbol, with the use of a competitive neural network having an input layer composed of a plurality of said input neurons and a competitive layer composed of a plurality of said competitive neurons, wherein said memory means stores, with the use of a frame knowledge representation model, second information on said symbol supplied separately from said variety of inputs in relation to said competitive neurons corresponding to said symbol, and wherein statistical addition-learning is performed for the first information and immediate learning is performed for the second information. 2. The memory system according to claim 1, comprising recollecting means for recollecting said first information on said relevant symbol in accordance with said input patterns of said variety of inputs and for recollecting said second information stored in relation to said symbol. 3. A memory method, comprising: storing first information on a symbol in a way to strengthen a connection between relevant input neurons and competitive neurons in response to input patterns of a variety of inputs for each symbol, with the use of a competitive neural network having an input layer composed of a plurality of said input neurons and a competitive layer composed of a plurality of said competitive neurons, storing second information on said symbol supplied separately from said variety of inputs with the use of a frame knowledge representation model in relation to said competitive neurons corresponding to said symbol, wherein statistical addition-learning is performed for the first information and immediate learning is performed for the second information. 4. The memory method according to claim 3, further comprising: recollecting said first information on said relevant symbol in accordance with said input patterns of said variety of inputs and; recollecting said second information stored in relation to said symbol. 