Track anomalies are detected by measuring track impedance. A robotic device is moved along the track. A conductor on the track is contacted with a pair of pickups moved by the robotic device. Track health is determined based on impedance sensed between the pickups.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting a track anomaly in an automated data storage library, the method comprising: moving a robotic device along the track; contacting a conductor on the track with a pair of pickups moved by the robotic device; sensing impedance of the conductor between the pair of pickups; and determining track health based on the sensed conductor impedance. 2. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 1 wherein the track comprises a plurality of sections of interest, the method further comprising: determining as a reference impedance the conductor impedance for each section of interest at a time when the track is operational; and remembering the reference impedance for each section of interest. 3. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 2 wherein determining track health comprises comparing the sensed conductor impedance for a section of interest with a corresponding remembered reference impedance. 4. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 1 wherein sensing impedance comprises measuring resistance between the pair of pickups. 5. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 1 wherein sensing impedance comprises taking measurements at a plurality of frequencies. 6. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 1 wherein the conductor carries electrical current supplying power to the robotic device. 7. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 1 wherein the conductor carries commands sent to the robotic device. 8. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 1 further comprising transmitting a signal indicative of track health along the conductor. 9. A data storage library comprising: a plurality of storage locations for holding data storage media disposed within the library; at least one rail disposed within the library located to provide access to the storage locations; at least one conductor on each rail, each conductor carrying electrical current; at least one robotic device mounted to travel along the at least one rail, each robotic device accessing storage media held in the storage locations; at least one pair of brushes on each robotic device, each brush conducting electrical current between the robotic device and the conductor; and electronics operative to determine an operating status of the conductor based on a measurement of impedance between each brush in the pair of brushes. 10. A data storage library as in claim 9 further comprising at least one controller controlling operation of at least one robotic device, the electronics operative to transmit a signal indicative of the operating status to the controller. 11. A data storage library as in claim 10 wherein the electronics transmit the signal through at least one of the conductors. 12. A data storage library as in claim 9 wherein the determination of the operating status of the conductor is further based on a reference impedance measurement. 13. A data storage library as in claim 9 wherein the measurement of impedance comprises a measurement of resistance between each brush in the pair of brushes. 14. A data storage library as in claim 9 wherein the measurement of impedance comprises measurements taken at a plurality of frequencies. 15. A method for detecting a track anomaly in a plurality of track sections by measuring an impedance of each section of track, the track providing access to data storage devices in an automated data storage library by supporting movement of at least one robotic device along the track. 16. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 15 wherein measuring impedance of each section of track comprises: affixing a first electrical connection at a first end of the track section; affixing a second electrical connection at a second end of the track section; and measuring the impedance between the first electrical connection and the second electrical connection. 17. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 15 wherein measuring impedance of each section of track comprises measuring the impedance with at least one pickup located on a robotic device. 18. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 15 wherein measuring the impedance comprises measuring the resistance. 19. A method for detecting a track anomaly as in claim 15 wherein measuring the impedance is based on measurements taken at a plurality of frequencies. 