A remote controlled robot system that includes a robot and a remote control station. A user can control movement of the robot from the remote control station. The remote control station may generate robot control commands that are transmitted through a broadband network. The robot has a camera that generates video images that are transmitted to the remote control station through the network. The user can control movement of the robot while viewing the video images provided by the robot camera. The robot can automatically stop movement if it does not receive a robot control command within a time interval. The remote control station may transmit a stop command to the robot if the station does not receive an updated video image within a time interval.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a remote control station that transmits a robot control command; and, a robot that includes a camera and moves in response to said robot control command, said robot automatically stops movement if said robot does not receive a subsequent robot control command within a time interval. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot includes a processor that operates a program to determine whether said robot has received said subsequent robot control command within said time interval. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said remote control station includes a screen that receives a video image from said camera of said robot, said remote station transmits a stop command if a subsequent video image is not received by said remote station within a time interval. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said robot further includes a screen, a microphone and a speaker, and said remote control station includes a screen, a camera, a microphone and a speaker. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a broadband network that is coupled to said robot and said remote control station. 6. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a remote control station that transmits a robot control command; and, a robot that includes a camera and moves in response to said robot control command, said robot contains means for automatically stopping said robot movement if said robot does not receive a subsequent robot control command within a time interval. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said means includes a processor that operates a program to determine whether said robot has received said subsequent robot control command within said time interval. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein said remote control station includes a screen that receives a video image from said camera of said robot, said remote station contains means for transmitting a stop command if a subsequent video image is not received by said remote station within a time interval. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein said robot further includes a screen, a microphone and a speaker, and said remote control station includes a screen, a camera, a microphone and a speaker. 10. The system of claim 6, further comprising a broadband network that is coupled to said robot and said remote control station. 11. A method for remotely controlling a robot that has a camera, comprising: transmitting a robot control command from a remote control station; receiving the robot control command at a robot that has a camera; moving the robot in accordance with the robot control command; and, stopping movement of the robot if a subsequent robot control command is not received within a time interval. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the remote control station receives a video image from the robot camera and the remote control station transmits a stop command to the robot if the remote control station does not receive a video image within a time interval. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the robot control command is transmitted through a broadband network. 14. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot that includes a camera; and, a remote control station that transmits a stop command to said robot if said remote control station does not receive a video image from said camera within a time interval. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said remote control station includes a processor that operates a program to determine whether said remote control station has received said video image within said time interval. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein said robot further includes a screen, a microphone and a speaker, and said remote control station includes a screen, a camera, a microphone and a speaker. 17. The system of claim 14, further comprising a broadband network that is coupled to said robot and said remote control station. 18. A remote controlled robot system, comprising: a robot that includes a camera; and, a remote control station that contains means 7 for transmitting a stop command to said robot if said remote control station does not receive a video image from said camera within a time interval. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said means includes a processor that operates a program to determine whether said robot has received said video image within said time interval. 20. The system of claim 18, wherein said robot further includes a screen, a microphone and a speaker, and said remote control station includes a screen, a camera, a microphone and a speaker. 21. The system of claim 18, further comprising a broadband network that is coupled to said robot and said remote control station. 22. A method for remotely controlling a robot that has a camera, comprising: transmitting a robot control command from a remote control station; receiving the robot control command at a robot that has a camera; moving the robot in accordance with the robot control command; and, transmitting a stop command to the robot if a video image is not received from the camera within a time interval. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the robot control and stop commands are transmitted through a broadband network. 