Apparatus is disclosed for generating control signals for the manipulation of virtual objects in a computer system according to the gestures and positions of an operator's hand or other body part. The apparatus includes a glove worn on the hand which includes sensors for detecting the gestures of the hand, as well as hand position sensing means coupled to the glove and to the computer system for detecting the position of the hand with respect to the system. The computer system includes circuitry connected to receive the gesture signals and the hand position signals for generating control signals in response thereto. Typically, the control signals are used to manipulate a graphical representation of the operator's hand which is displayed on a monitor coupled to the computer system, and the graphical representations of the operator's hand manipulates virtual objects or tools also displayed by the computer.
Claims We claim: 1. A virtual reality system for depicting a body part of a human operator as a virtual body part in a visual display, the virtual reality system comprising: a processing system configured to generate image information representing said virtual body part; a glove, adapted to be worn on the body part of the human operator, wherein the glove comprises: an ultrasonic transducer positioned to convey an ultrasonic signal outwardly from a first surface of the glove; and a transmission tube configured to conduct the ultrasonic signal to a different part of the glove: wherein said processing system is configured to determine a position of said glove depending upon a reception of the ultrasonic signal. 2. The virtual reality system of claim 1, wherein the glove is adapted to be worn on a hand of the human operator. 3. The virtual reality system as recited in claim 1, wherein the image information is dependent upon said position of said glove. 4. The virtual reality system as recited in claim 1 further comprising a plurality of flexure sensors affixed to the glove and configured to detect an extent of bending of the human operator's fingers. 