The present invention relates to isolated polypeptides having cellulolytic enhancing activity and isolated nucleic acids encoding the polypeptides. The invention also relates to nucleic acid constructs, vectors, and host cells comprising the nucleic acids as well as methods for producing and using the polypeptides.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated polypeptide having the property of enhancing the cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide, selected from the group consisting of: (a) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence which has at least 95% identity with amino acids 23 to 250 of SEQ ID NO: 2; and (b) a polypeptide which is encoded by a polynucleotide which hybridizes under at least high stringency conditions with (i) nucleotides 67 to 796 of SEQ ID NO: 1, (ii) the cDNA sequence contained in nucleotides 67 to 796 of SEQ ID NO: 1, or (iii) a complementary strand of (i) or (ii). 2. The polypeptide of claim 1, which comprises the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. 3. The polypeptide of claim 1, which consists of SEQ ID NO: 2 or a fragment thereof having cellulolytic enhancing activity. 4. The polypeptide of claim 1, which consists of SEQ ID NO: 2. 5. The polypeptide of claim 1 which consists of amino acids 23 to 250 of SEQ ID NO: 2. 6. The polypeptide of claim 1 which is encoded by the polynucleotide contained in plasmid pDZA2-7 which is contained in E. coli NRRL B-30704. 7. A detergent composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1 having the property of enhancing the cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide, a cellulolytic polypeptide, and a surfactant. 8. A method for degrading or converting a cellulosic material, comprising: treating the cellulosic material with an effective amount of a cellulolytic protein in the presence of an effective amount of the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity of claim 1, wherein the presence of the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity increases the degradation of cellulosic material compared to the absence of the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity. 9. A method for producing an organic substance comprising: (a) saccharifying a cellulosic material with an effective amount of a cellulolytic protein in the presence of an effective amount of the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity of claim 1, wherein the presence of the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity increases the degradation of cellulosic material compared to the absence of the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity; (b) fermenting the saccharified cellulosic material of step (a) with one or more fermenting microorganisms; and (c) recovering the organic substance from the fermentation. 10. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, which comprises an amino acid sequence which has at least 95% identity with amino acids 23 to 250 of SEQ ID NO: 2. 11. The isolated polypeptide of claim 10, which comprises an amino acid sequence which has at least 97% identity with amino acids 23 to 250 of SEQ ID NO: 2. 12. The isolated polypeptide of claim 1, which is encoded by a polynucleotide which hybridizes under at least high stringency conditions with (i) nucleotides 67 to 796 of SEQ ID NO: 1, (ii) the cDNA sequence contained in nucleotides 67 to 796 of SEQ ID NO: 1, or (iii) a complementary strand of (i) or (ii). 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the cellulosic material is selected from the group consisting of herbaceous material, agricultural residue, forestry residue, municipal solid waste, waste paper, and pulp and paper mill residue. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein the cellulosic material is corn stover. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more cellulolytic enzymes are selected from the group consisting of a cellulase, endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and beta-glucosidase. 16. The method of claim 8, further comprising treating the cellulosic material with an effective amount of one or more enzymes selected from the group consisting of a hemicellulase, esterase, protease, laccase, or peroxidase. 17. The method of claim 8, wherein the method is a pretreatment process, a step in a simultaneous saccharification and fermentation process (SSF), or a step in a hybrid hydrolysis and fermentation process (HHF). 18. The method of claim 8, further comprising recovering the degraded cellulosic material. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the degraded cellulosic material is a sugar. 20. The method of claim 8, wherein the cellulolytic protein and/or the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity are in the form of a fermentation broth with or without cells. 21. The method of claim 9, wherein the cellulosic material is selected from the group consisting of herbaceous material, agricultural residue, forestry residue, municipal solid waste, waste paper, and pulp and paper mill residue. 22. The method of claim 9, wherein the cellulosic material is corn stover. 23. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more cellulolytic enzymes are selected from the group consisting of a cellulase, endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and beta-glucosidase. 24. The method of claim 9, further comprising treating the cellulosic material with an effective amount of one or more enzymes selected from the group consisting of a hemicellulase, esterase, protease, laccase, or peroxidase. 25. The method of claim 9, wherein steps (a) and (b) are performed simultaneously in a simultaneous saccharification and fermentation. 26. The method of claim 9 wherein the organic substance is an alcohol, organic acid, ketone, amino acid, or gas. 27. The method of claim 9, wherein the cellulolytic protein and/or the polypeptide having cellulolytic enhancing activity are in the form of a fermentation broth with or without cells. 