A manufacturing carrier has an insert that can be configured and reconfigured for a wide variety components. The carrier has a frame configured to be transported by a conveyor, an insert and at least one positioner. The insert has pin holes arranged in a matrix. The positioner is carried in a pin hole and configured for locating a component at an x axis position, a y axis position, and a z axis position in relation to the insert. The positioner is moveable from the pin hole configured for a component to another pin hole to reconfigure the insert for another component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manufacturing carrier with a configurable insert, comprising: a carrier having a frame, the carrier configured to be transported by a conveyor; an insert held by the carrier, the insert having a first side, a second side, and pin holes arranged in a matrix; a first positioner carried in at least a first pin hole, the first positioner configured for locating a component at an x axis position, a y axis position; and a z axis position in relation to the insert; at least one pin carried on a first positioner proximal end, the pin configured for insertion into at least the first pin hole with a frictional fit to secure the pin in the first pin hole; a platform distal to the pin, the platform configured for locating the component at the z axis position; and a guide distal to the platform, the guide configured for locating the component at the x axis position and the y axis position, wherein the first positioner is moveable from the first pin hole configured for a component to a second pin hole to reconfigure the insert for another component. 2. The manufacturing carries as in claim 1, further comprising: a second positioner carried in at least a third pin hole, the second positioner configured for cooperating with the first positioner for locating the component at the x axis position, the y axis position, and the z axis position in relation to the insert; wherein the second positioner is moveable from the third pin hole configured for the component to forth pin hole to reconfigure the insert for another component. 3. The manufacturing carrier as in claim 1, further comprising a grip distal to the guide, the grip configured for grasping the first positioner to move the first positioner from the first pin hole to the second pin hole. 4. The manufacturing carrier as in claim 3, wherein the grip is graspable by a robotic machine to move the first positioner from the first pin hole to the second pin hole. 5. The manufacturing carrier as in claim 1, wherein the first positioner pin includes a pin spring to control insertion force and extraction force within pin hole tolerances. 6. The manufacturing carrier as in claim 5, wherein the insertion force is less than about five Newtons and the extraction form is greater than about two Newtons. 7. The manufacturing carrier as in claim 1 further comprising, a conveyor that engages the carrier to move the carrier to selected positions for component manufacturing actions. 8. The manufacturing carrier as in claim 1 further comprising, a manufacturing hole formed in the insert to provide access to the component through the insert. 9. A positioner according to claim 1, wherein the component comprises an implantable medical device. 10. A positioner according to claim 9 wherein the implantable medical device includes at least one of an irregular shape and a rounded shape. 11. A configurable insert for a manufacturing carrier, comprising: an insert having a first side, a second side, and a plurality of pin holes arranged in a matrix; a first positioner carried in at least a first pin hole, the first positioner configured for locating a component at an x axis position, a y axis position, and a z axis position in relation to the insert, the first positioner including, at least one pin carried on a first positioner proximal end, the pin configured for insertion into the first pin hole with a frictional fit to secure the pin in the pin hole; a platform distal to the pin, the platform configured for locating the component at the z axis position; and a guide distal to the platform, the guide configured for locating the component at the x axis position and y axis position; wherein the positioner is moveable from the pin hole configured for a component to another pin hole to reconfigure the insert for another component. 12. The configurable insert as in claim 11, further comprising a grip distal to the guide, the grip configured for grasping the first positioner to move the first positioner. 13. A positioner according to claim 11, wherein the component comprises an implantable medical device. 14. A positioner according to claim 13, wherein the implantable medical device includes at least one of an irregular shape and a rounded shape. 