A Soft Computing (SC) optimizer for designing a Knowledge Base (KB) to be used in a control system for controlling a motorcycle is described. In one embodiment, a simulation model of the motorcycle and rider control is used. In one embodiment, the simulation model includes a feedforward rider model. The SC optimizer includes a fuzzy inference engine based on a Fuzzy Neural Network (FNN). The SC Optimizer provides Fuzzy Inference System (FIS) structure selection, FIS structure optimization method selection, and teaching signal selection and generation. The user selects a fuzzy model, including one or more of: the number of input and/or output variables; the type of fuzzy inference; and the preliminary type of membership functions. A Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used to optimize linguistic variable parameters and the input-output training patterns. A GA is also used to optimize the rule base, using the fuzzy model, optimal linguistic variable parameters, and a teaching signal. The GA produces a near-optimal FNN. The near-optimal FNN can be improved using classical derivative-based optimization procedures. The FIS structure found by the GA is optimized with a fitness function based on a response of the actual plant model of the controlled plant. The SC optimizer produces a robust KB that is typically smaller that the KB produced by prior art methods.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for optimizing a knowledge base in a soft computing controller for maneuvering a motorcycle, comprising: selecting a fuzzy model by selecting one or more parameters, said one or more parameters comprising at least one of a number of input variables, a number of output variables, a type of fuzzy inference model, and a teaching signal; optimizing linguistic variable parameters of a knowledge base according to said one or more parameters to produce optimized linguistic variables according to a teaching signal obtained from a dynamic simulation model of a motorcycle and rider; ranking rules in said rule base according to firing strength; and eliminating rules with relatively weak firing strength leaving selected rules from said rules in said rule base; optimizing said selected rules, using said fuzzy model, said linguistic variable parameters and said optimized linguistic variables, to produce optimized selected rules. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising optimizing said selected rules using a derivative-based optimization procedure. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising optimizing parameters of membership functions of said optimized selected rules to reduce approximation errors. 