Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, a thin film characteristic and an electrical property of a specimen. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use; a first measurement device coupled to the stage, wherein the first measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen during use, and wherein the first measurement device comprises an X-ray reflectometer; a second measurement device coupled to the stage, wherein the second measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to at least one electrical property of the specimen during use, wherein the second measurement device comprises a device configured to deposit a charge on an upper surface of the specimen, and wherein the second measurement device is further configured to anneal the specimen to drive metal contamination into a dielectric material formed on the specimen and to measure a tunneling voltage of the dielectric material subsequent to annealing of the specimen; and a processor coupled to the first measurement device and the second measurement device, wherein the processor is configured to determine the at least one thin film characteristic from the one or more output signals of the first measurement device during use and to determine the at least one electrical property of the specimen from the one or more output signals of the second measurement device during use, wherein the at least one electrical property comprises the metal contamination of the dielectric material, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the metal contamination as a function of the measured tunneling voltage. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally during use. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move rotatably during use. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the stage is further configured to move laterally and rotatably during use. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises a reflectometer. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic reflectometer. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises an ellipsometer. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic ellipsometer. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises a beam profile ellipsometer. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises a photo-acoustic device. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises an eddy current device. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises a grazing X-ray reflectometer. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device further comprises an X-ray diffractometer. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the second measurement device further comprises: an oven configured to anneal the specimen; a cooling device configured to reduce a temperature of the specimen subsequent to an annealing process; and a sensor configured to measure the at least one electrical property of the charged upper surface of the specimen. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one electrical property of the specimen further comprises a capacitance, a dielectric constant, or a resistivity. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a third property of the specimen from the one or more output signals of the first or second measurement device during use, and wherein the third property is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the specimen, and a roughness of a feature of the specimen. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the at least two properties of the specimen substantially simultaneously during use. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement device is further configured to generate the one or more output signals responsive to the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen at multiple locations on the specimen substantially simultaneously during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the at least one thin film characteristic at the multiple locations on the specimen from the one or more output signals during use. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the second measurement device is further configured to generate the one or more output signals responsive to the at least one electrical property of the specimen at multiple locations on the specimen substantially simultaneously during use, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the at least one electrical property at the multiple locations on the specimen from the one or more output signals during use. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is disposed within the process tool. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is arranged laterally proximate to the process tool. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool comprises a wafer handler configured to move the specimen to the stage during use. 24. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the system to the process tool during use. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen to a process chamber of the process tool during use. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, and wherein the system is further configured to determine at least the two properties of the specimen while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of the stage. 28. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the stage is angled with respect to an upper surface of the support device. 29. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is coupled to a process tool selected from the group consisting of a chemical vapor deposition tool, an atomic layer deposition tool, a physical vapor deposition tool, a plating tool, a chemical-mechanical polishing tool, a thermal tool, a cleaning tool, an ion implanter, and an etch tool. 30. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the first and second measurement devices are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool. 31. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the first and second measurement devices are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is disposed within a process tool. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the first and second measurement devices are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of a process tool. 33. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a measurement chamber, wherein the stage and the first and second measurement devices are disposed within the measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of a process tool. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a process chamber, wherein the stage is disposed within the process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to support the specimen during a process step. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the system is further configured to determine one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen during the process step. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain a signature characterizing the process step during use, and wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity representative of an end of the process step. 37. The system of claim 35, wherein the processor is further coupled to the process tool and is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to the one or more of the at least two properties using an in situ control technique during use. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein a process tool comprises a first process chamber and a second process chamber, and wherein the stage is further configured to move the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber during use. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the system is further configured to determine one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen as the stage is moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 40. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen and properties of a plurality of specimens during use. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to compare one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen to a predetermined range for the one or more properties during use. 42. The system of claim 41, wherein the processor is further configured to generate an output signal if the one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen is outside of the predetermined range during use. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the first measurement device in response to the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen during use. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a sampling frequency of the second measurement device in response to the at least one electrical property of the specimen during use. 45. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the first measurement device in response to the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen using a feedback control technique during use. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the second measurement device in response to the at least one electrical property of the specimen using a feedback control technique during use. 47. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the first measurement device in response to the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen using a feedforward control technique during use. 48. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the second measurement device in response to the at least one electrical property of the specimen using a feedforward control technique during use. 49. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen and the at least one electrical property of the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the first and second measurement devices using the database during use. 50. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen and the at least one electrical property of the specimen, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor the one or more output signals generated by the first and second measurement devices using the database during use. 51. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate a database during use, wherein the database comprises the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen and the at least one electrical property of the specimen, and wherein the database further comprises the at least one thin film characteristic and the at least one electrical property of a plurality of specimens. 52. The system of claim 51, wherein the at least one thin film characteristic and the at least one electrical property of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to calibrate the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 53. The system of claim 51, wherein the at least one thin film characteristic and the at least one electrical property of the plurality of specimens are determined using a plurality of measurement devices, wherein the processor is further coupled to the plurality of measurement devices, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database during use. 54. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system during use. 55. The system of claim 1, further comprising a stand alone system coupled to the system and at least one additional system, wherein the stand alone system is configured to be calibrated with a calibration standard during use, and wherein the stand alone system is further configured to calibrate the system and at least the one additional system during use. 56. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the at least one thin film characteristic at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of the at least one thin film characteristic. 57. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to determine the at least one electrical property at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to the at least one electrical property of the specimen at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of the at least one electrical property. 58. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool. 59. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen using a feedback control technique during use. 60. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen using a feedforward control technique during use. 61. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool during use. 62. The system of claim 61, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a relationship between one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen and at least one of the monitored parameters during use. 63. The system of claim 62, wherein the processor is further configured to alter a parameter of at least one of the instruments in response to the relationship during use. 64. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a local processor coupled to the first and second measurement devices and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals from the first and second measurement devices during use, and wherein the remote controller computer is configured to further process the at least partially processed one or more output signals during use. 65. The system of claim 64, wherein the local processor is further configured to determine the at least one thin film characteristic and the at least one electrical property of the specimen during use. 66. The system of claim 64, wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the at least one thin film characteristic and the at least one electrical property of the specimen during use. 67. A method for determining at least two properties of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein the first measurement device comprises an X-ray reflectometer; generating one or more output signals responsive to at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen with the first measurement device; generating one or more output signals responsive to at least one electrical property of the specimen with the second measurement device, wherein said generating the one or more output signals responsive to the at least one electrical property comprises depositing a charge on an upper surface of the specimen with the second measurement device, annealing the specimen to drive metal contamination into a dielectric material formed on the specimen, and measuring a tunneling voltage of the dielectric material subsequent to annealing of the specimen; processing the one or more output signals from the first measurement device to determine the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals from the second measurement device to determine the at least one electrical property of the specimen, wherein the at least one electrical property comprises the metal contamination of the dielectric material, and wherein the metal contamination is determined as a function of the measured tunneling voltage. 68. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, wherein the system comprises a stage configured to support the specimen, and wherein the stage is coupled to a first measurement device and a second measurement device, comprising: controlling the first measurement device to generate one or more output signals responsive to at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen, wherein the first measurement device comprises an X-ray reflectometer; controlling the second measurement device to generate one or more output signals responsive to at least one electrical property of the specimen, wherein the second measurement device is further configured to generate the one or more output signals by depositing a charge on an upper surface of the specimen, annealing the specimen to drive metal contamination into a dielectric material formed on the specimen, and measuring a tunneling voltage of the dielectric material subsequent to annealing of the specimen; processing the one or more output signals from the first measurement device to determine the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals from the second measurement device to determine the at least one electrical property of the specimen, wherein the at least one electrical property comprises the metal contamination of the dielectric material, and wherein the metal contamination is determined as a function of the measured tunneling voltage. 69. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising: forming a portion of the semiconductor device upon a specimen; disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a first measurement device and a second measurement device; generating one or more output signals responsive to at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen with the first measurement device, wherein the first measurement device comprises an X-ray reflectometer; generating one or more output signals responsive to at least one electrical property of the specimen with the second measurement device, wherein said generating the one or more output signals responsive to the at least one electrical property comprises depositing a charge on an upper surface of the specimen with the second measurement device, annealing the specimen to drive metal contamination into a dielectric material formed on the specimen, and measuring a tunneling voltage of the dielectric material subsequent to annealing of the specimen; processing the one or more output signals from the first measurement device to determine the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen; and processing the one or more output signals from the second measurement device to determine the at least one electrical property of the specimen, wherein the at least one electrical property comprises the metal contamination of the dielectric material, and wherein the metal contamination is determined as a function of the measured tunneling voltage. 70. A system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use; a first measurement device coupled to the stage, wherein the first measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen during use, and wherein the first measurement device comprises an X-ray reflectometer; a second measurement device coupled to the stage, wherein the second measurement device is configured to generate one or more output signals responsive to at least one electrical property during use, wherein the second measurement device is further configured to generate the one or more output signals by depositing a charge on an upper surface of the specimen, annealing the specimen to drive metal contamination into a dielectric material formed on the specimen, and measuring a tunneling voltage of the dielectric material subsequent to annealing of the specimen; a local processor coupled to the first and second measurement devices, wherein the local processor is configured to at least partially process the one or more output signals from the first measurement device and the one or more output signals from the second measurement device during use; and a remote controller computer coupled to the local processor, wherein the remote controller computer is configured to receive the at least partially processed one or more output signals, to determine the at least one thin film characteristic from the at least partially processed output signals of the first measurement device, and to determine the at least one electrical property of the specimen from the at least partially processed output signals of the second measurement device during use, wherein the at least one electrical property comprises the metal contamination of the dielectric material, and wherein the remote controller computer is further configured to determine the metal contamination as a function of the measured tunneling voltage. 71. A method for determining at least two properties of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a first measurement device and a second measurement device; generating one or more output signals responsive to at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen with the first measurement device, wherein the first measurement device comprises an X-ray reflectometer; generating one or more output signals responsive to at least one electrical property of the specimen with the second measurement device, wherein said generating the one or more output signals responsive to the at least one electrical property comprises depositing a charge on an upper surface of the specimen, annealing the specimen to drive metal contamination into a dielectric material formed on the specimen, and measuring a tunneling voltage of the dielectric material subsequent to annealing of the specimen; processing the one or more output signals from the first measurement device to determine the at least one thin film characteristic of the specimen and the one or more output signals from the second measurement device to determine the at least one electrical property of the specimen, wherein the at least one electrical property comprises the metal contamination of the dielectric material, and wherein the metal contamination is determined as a function of the measured tunneling voltage, comprising: at least partially processing the one or more output signals from the first measurement device and the one or more output signals from the second measurement device using a local processor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the first and second measurement devices; sending the at least partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signals using the remote controller computer. 