In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, there is provided a welding torch that includes features facilitating aligned assembly of various components of the welding torch with respect to one another. For example, the welding torch includes a nipple that carries a pin member extending from both an inner peripheral surface and an outer peripheral of a sleeve of the nipple. This pin engages with a slot on a coupling member and a slot on a neck assembly, thereby facilitating proper alignment of the neck assembly, coupling member, and nipple with respect to one another. Moreover, the engagement between the pin member and the slots block pivotal displacement of neck assembly, coupling member, and neck assembly with respect to one another. Advantageously, the use of a single pin member for both slots presents a more judicious construction, leading to reduced manufacturing costs, for instance.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A welding torch, comprising: a coupling member having a first interior surface that defines a central aperture extending axially through the coupling member from a first end to a second end thereof, wherein the coupling member includes a first slot located on the first interior surface and open at the first end; a nipple including a sleeve having an outer peripheral surface and an inner peripheral surface; a pin extending through the sleeve and protruding with respect to both the outer and inner peripheral surfaces; and a neck assembly having an end portion receivable by the sleeve and having a second slot open at one end; wherein engagement of the pin with the first and second slots blocks pivotal movement of the coupling member, the nipple, and the neck assembly with respect to one another. 2. The welding torch as recited in claim 1, comprising a plurality of pins. 3. The welding torch as recited in claim 1, wherein the coupling member is configured to axially secure the nipple via friction between the first interior surface and the outer peripheral surface. 4. The welding torch as recited in claim 1, wherein the pin comprises steel. 5. The welding torch as recited in claim 1, wherein the nipple has a securement portion configured to engage with a welding cable such that the securement portion receives electrical current from the welding cable. 6. The welding torch as recited in claim 1, wherein the pin comprises a unitary member. 7. A welding torch, comprising: a coupling member having a central aperture extending axially and completely therethrough, the coupling member having an interior surface that circumscribes the central aperture and having a first slot located on the interior surface; a nipple including a first end coupleable to a cable and a second end having an annular cross-section that is generally transverse to a longitudinal axis of the nipple, the annular cross-section being defined by an outer periphery and an inner periphery; a first protrusion extending radially outward from the outer periphery and a second protrusion extending radially inward from the inner periphery, wherein the first and second protrusions are located at a same angular position with respect to the annular cross-section; and a neck assembly receivable by the nipple and having a second slot; wherein engagement of the first protrusion with the first slot blocks pivotal movement of the coupling member and the nipple with one another, and wherein engagement of the second protrusion with the second slot blocks pivotal movement of the neck assembly with respect to the nipple. 8. The welding torch as recited in claim 7, comprising a mounting arm coupleable to a robotic welding device, wherein the coupling member is securable to the mounting arm. 9. The welding torch as recited in claim 7, wherein the cable comprises a welding cable and wherein the first end is configured to engage with the welding cable. 10. The welding torch as recited in claim 9, wherein the neck assembly is electrically coupleable to the welding cable and is configured to receive wire electrode therethrough. 11. The welding torch as recited in claim 7, wherein the first and second protrusions comprise a unitary member. 12. The welding torch as recited in claim 7, wherein the coupling member is configured to clamp onto the nipple to axially secure the coupling member and the nipple with respect to one another. 13. The welding torch as recited in claim 7, comprising a set set-screw configured to axially secure the neck assembly and the nipple with respect to one another. 14. A welding system, comprising: a welding cable coupleable to an electrical current source and a wire electrode source; and a welding torch coupleable to the welding cable, the welding torch comprising: a coupling member having a central aperture extending axially and completely through the coupling member and having an interior surface that circumscribes the central aperture, the interior surface including a first slot; a nipple having a first end coupleable to the welding cable and a second end with an annular cross-section generally transverse to a longitudinal axis of the nipple, the annular cross-section being defined by an outer periphery and an inner periphery; a first protrusion extending radially outward from the outer periphery and a second protrusion extending radially inward from the inner periphery, wherein the first and second protrusions are located at a same angular position with respect to the annular cross-section; and a neck assembly receivable by the central aperture and having a second slot, wherein the neck assembly is configured to route wire electrode therethrough; wherein engagement of the first protrusion with the first slot blocks pivotal movement of the coupling member and the nipple with respect to one another, and wherein engagement of the second protrusion with the second slot blocks pivotal movement of the neck assembly with respect to the nipple. 15. The welding system as recited in claim 14, comprising a robotic assembly for positioning the welding torch at a plurality of locations. 16. The welding system as recited in claim 14, comprising a shielding material source, wherein the welding cable routes shielding material from the shielding material source to the welding torch. 17. The welding system as recited in claim 16, wherein the shielding material comprises a fluid. 18. The welding system as recited in claim 14, wherein the welding gun has an arcuate neck assembly. 19. A kit for a welding torch, comprising: a nipple having a first end coupleable to a welding cable and a second end, wherein the second end includes a sleeve having an inner peripheral surface and an outer peripheral surface; a first protrusion extending radially outward from the outer peripheral surface at an angular position with respect to an annular cross-section of the sleeve; a second protrusion extending radially inward from the inner peripheral surface at the angular position with respect to the annular cross-section of the sleeve; and a neck assembly having a plunger portion configured to be received within the sleeve and having a slot disposed in the plunger portion, wherein the slot is configured to engage with the second protrusion, and wherein the neck assembly is coupleable to the welding cable via the nipple. 20. The kit as recited in claim 19, wherein the first and second protrusions comprise one or more pins. 21. The kit as recited in claim 19, wherein the neck assembly is configured to route wire electrode therethrough. 22. The kit as recited in claim 19, comprising a coupling member having a further slot configured to engage with the first protrusion, the coupling member being configured to receive the sleeve within a central aperture. 23. The kit as recited in claim 19, where the first and second protrusions are located at different axial positions with respect to the sleeve. 24. The welding torch as recited in claim 1, wherein the sleeve comprises a single structure. 25. The welding torch as recited in claim 7, wherein the first and second protrusions comprise a unitary member and wherein the unitary member protrudes through the annular cross-section. 26. The welding torch as recited in claim 7, wherein the annular cross-section comprises a single structure. 27. The welding system as recited in claim 14, wherein the first and second protrusions comprise a unitary member. 28. The welding system as recited in claim 14, wherein the first and second protrusions comprise a unitary member and wherein the unitary member protrudes through the annular cross-section. 29. The kit as recited in claim 19, wherein the first and second protrusions comprise a unitary member. 