A method of screening protein crystal growth conditions on a nano or meso scale comprises providing a micro-electromechanical chip with a plurality of micro-chambers in the micro-electromechanical chip. A protein solution is placed into the micro-chambers by an automated jet type dispensing means with nano or meso scale precision. The protein crystal growth conditions of each of the micro-chambers is adjusted so that the protein crystal growth conditions of each of the micro-chambers differs. Crystallization of the protein solution in the micro-chambers is effected. Protein crystal growth in the micro-chambers is then observed.
Claims Having described the invention the following is claimed: 1. A method of screening protein crystal growth conditions comprising: dispensing a protein solution into protein solution microchambers of a microarray and separately dispensing precipitate solutions into precipitate solution microchambers of said microarray, said microchambers having a volume from about 0.001 nl to about 250 nl; allowing liquid--liquid communication between protein solution microchambers and precipitate solution microchambers; and observing said microchambers for protein crystal growth or protein precipitation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said precipitate solution comprises a component selected from the group consisting of buffers, surface active agents, salts, alcohols, polyethylene glycol and mixtures thereof. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said protein solution is buffered. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said microarray comprises valves between protein solution microchambers and precipitate solution microchambers. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said valves control said liquid--liquid communication between microchambers comprising protein solution and microchambers comprising precipitate solution. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein controlling protein crystal growth further comprises employing microchambers of varying dimensions. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said precipitate solution and said protein solution are in fluid communication via micro-channels. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein said precipitate solution and said protein solution are in fluid communication via a channel. 9. The method of claim 5 wherein said allowing liquid--liquid communication of said precipitate solution microchambers and said protein solution microchambers comprises opening said valves. 10. A method of screening protein crystal growth conditions comprising: transferring samples comprising a volume from about 0.001 nl to about 250 nl of a protein solution into microchambers in a platform; providing a precipitate solution that is in liquid--liquid communication with the protein solution; controlling the protein crystal growth conditions of the samples; and observing a protein precipitate or protein crystals in the microchambers. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein controlling the protein crystal growth condition comprises employing a valve disposed in a microchannel between a microchamber comprising protein solution and a microchamber comprising precipitate solution. 12. The method of claim 10 therein the platform is a microarray. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume of the protein solution microchambers is between about 1 to about 10 nanoliters. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume of precipitate solution microchambers is between about 1 to about 10 nanoliters. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein said microarray comprises miniaturized active control elements between protein solution microchambers and precipitate solution microchambers. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the miniaturized active control elements are selected from the group consisting of valves, pumps, and electrodes. 