A vacuum pick-up device 20 includes a device body 22 having a pick-up tip opening 78 to which vacuum pressure is supplied. The vacuum pick-up device 20 further includes a mechanical release assisting device 36 that assists in the release of a grasped object contemporaneously with or slightly subsequent to the cessation of vacuum pressure. A manifold 38 may be included to efficiently and effectively supply vacuum pressure to the device body 22 from a vacuum pressure source.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A vacuum pick-up device, comprising: a first device body having a distal end, the first device body including a first vacuum pressure supply port, a first tip opening positioned at the distal end of the first device body, the first tip opening being conditionally supplied with vacuum pressure from the first vacuum pressure supply port for grasping an object, and a first release assisting device movably coupled to the first device body, wherein movement of the first release assisting device substantially shuts off the supply of vacuum pressure to the first tip opening and causes a portion of the first release assisting device to be extended through the first tip opening and protrude past the first device body distal end. 2. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 1, further comprising a second device body having a distal end, the second device body including a second vacuum pressure supply port, a second tip opening positioned at the distal end of the second device body adjacent the first tip opening, the second tip opening being conditionally supplied with vacuum pressure from the second vacuum pressure supply port for grasping an object, and a second release assisting device movably coupled to the second device body, wherein movement of the second release assisting device substantially shuts off the supply of vacuum pressure to the second tip opening and causes a portion of the second release assisting device to be extended through the second tip opening and protrude past the second device body distal end. 3. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 1, wherein the first device body includes a first tubular member having a bore that defines the first tip opening, and wherein the first tubular member includes the first vacuum supply port, the first release assisting device being movably mounted within the first tubular member bore. 4. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 3, wherein the first device body further includes a second tubular member defining a bore, the first tubular member disposed within the second tubular member bore and secured thereto. 5. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 4, wherein the second tubular member includes a vacuum pressure inlet port, the vacuum pressure inlet port being adapted to be connected to a source of vacuum pressure. 6. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 5, further comprising a sealed chamber formed between the first tubular member and the second tubular member, the sealed chamber in fluid communication with the vacuum pressure inlet port and the first vacuum pressure supply port. 7. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 1, further comprising a manifold connected to the first device body, the manifold including a passageway in fluid communication with the first vacuum pressure supply port and adapted to be connected to a vacuum pressure source. 8. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the first release assisting device or first device body includes a friction-reducing or hydrophobic medium. 9. The vacuum pick-up device of claim 1, further comprising an actuator having an extendable member, the extendable member fixedly coupled to the first release assisting device for effecting movement of the first release assisting device. 10. In a material handling system that transports plant embryos from a first location to a second location, and having a pick-up device interchangeably mountable to a robot arm, the pick-up device comprising: an outer tubular member having proximal and distal ends and defining an elongated bore, the outer tubular member including a port disposed through a side portion thereof that is in fluid communication with the outer tubular member bore; an inner tubular member having proximal and distal ends, the inner tubular member defining an elongate bore having a tip opening at the inner tubular member distal end, the inner tubular member being disposed within the outer tubular member bore and fixed thereto, wherein the inner tubular member includes a port disposed through a portion thereof that is in fluid communication with the inner tubular member bore, the inner tubular member port being spaced apart from the outer tubular member port; a sealed chamber formed between the inner and outer tubular members, the sealed chamber interconnecting the outer tubular member port with the inner tubular member port, and a mechanical release assist device having first and second ends, the mechanical release assist device disposed within the inner tubular member bore, the mechanical release assist device being movable between an extended position and a retracted position, wherein the mechanical release assist device blocks the fluid communication between the inner tubular member port and the tip opening in the extended position. 11. The device of claim 10, further including an actuator having an extendable member, the extendable member fixedly coupled to the mechanical release assist device for effecting movement of the mechanical release assist device between the mechanical release assist device retracted and extended positions. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein the distal end of the inner tubular member terminates in a substantially flat contact face oriented orthogonal to the longitudinal axis of the device. 13. The device of claim 10, wherein the distal end of the inner tubular member terminates in a concave contact face. 14. The device of claim 10, wherein the distal end of the mechanical release assist device or inner tubular member includes a friction-reducing or hydrophobic medium. 