A pneumatic recoil reduction adapter for use with a barrel and breech of an existing explosives disarmer. The adapter substantially reduces and, indeed, achieves near-total recoil reduction of recoil using venturi-venting rather than damping liquids, spring-damped shot tubes or other unwieldy mechanics. The recoil reduction adapter is formed with a central chamber to seat a cartridge and a plurality of axially extending passages leading outward from the central chamber through a corresponding plurality of radially-spaced venturi nozzles. Upon firing, exhaust gases are vented rearwardly back through the central chamber and outward through the venturi nozzles to offset and thereby reduce recoil forces.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for use in damping the recoil of a disrupter firearm system, comprising a recoil reduction adapter attachable between a disrupter barrel and breech portion, said recoil reduction adaptor comprising a chamber in communication with said barrel for seating a shot cartridge, and a plurality of vent passages leading rearwardly from said chamber and exiting said recoil reduction adapter through a corresponding plurality of venturi nozzles; whereby exhaust gases from said cartridge are expelled from the recoil reduction adapter through said venturi nozzles to reduce recoil, wherein the chamber of said recoil reduction adapter is journalled at its breech end to define an annular cartridge seat to seat a protruding flange of a shot cartridge. 2. The apparatus for use in damping the recoil of a disrupter firearm system according to claim 1, wherein the chamber of said recoil reduction adapter is dimensioned to leave an unoccupied exhaust chamber in advance of said shot cartridge when seated in said cartridge seat. 3. The apparatus for use in damping the recoil of a disrupter firearm system according to claim 2, wherein said exhaust chamber is defined by a plurality of radial ports. 4. The apparatus for use in damping the recoil of a disrupter firearm system according to claim 3, wherein said vent passages lead outward from said radial ports. 5. The apparatus for use in damping the recoil of a disrupter firearm system according to claim 3, wherein said vent passages lead outward from said radial ports and away from said barrel. 6. A device for firing a projectile, the device comprising a barrel portion for expelling said projectile, a breech portion containing a firing mechanism for said projectile, and a recoil reduction adapter coupled at one end to said barrel portion and at another end to said breech portion, said adapter being formed with a central chamber defining a recess for seating a cartridge and an exhaust chamber in advance of said cartridge, and a plurality of axially extending passages leading from said exhaust chamber outward from said adapter and rearward therefrom opposite said barrel portion to vent exhaust gasses in a direction offsetting recoil forces from firing said projectile, wherein the chamber of said recoil reduction adapter is journalled at its breech end to define an annular cartridge seat to seat a protruding flange of a shot cartridge. 7. A device for firing a projectile according to claim 6, wherein the chamber of said recoil reduction adapter is dimensioned to leave an unoccupied exhaust chamber in advance of said shot cartridge when seated in said cartridge seat. 8. A device for firing a projectile according to claim 7, wherein said exhaust chamber is defined by a plurality of radial ports. 9. The device for firing a projectile according to claim 8, wherein said vent passages lead outward from said radial ports and away from said barrel portion. 10. A device for firing a projectile according to claim 9, wherein each of said venturi nozzles is defined by a constricted orifice to increase exhaust gas velocity and thereby offset recoil generated by the shot cartridge. 