A static fluid and a second fluid are placed into contact along a microfluidic free interface and allowed to mix by diffusion without convective flow across the interface. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, the fluids are static and initially positioned on either side of a closed valve structure in a microfluidic channel having a width that is tightly constrained in at least one dimension. The valve is then opened, and no-slip layers at the sides of the microfluidic channel suppress convective mixing between the two fluids along the resulting interface. Applications for microfluidic free interfaces in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include, but are not limited to, protein crystallization studies, protein solubility studies, determination of properties of fluidics systems, and a variety of biological assays such as diffusive immunoassays, substrate turnover assays, and competitive binding assays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of mixing two fluids comprising: disposing a first static fluid; disposing a second fluid proximate to the first static fluid to form a fluidic interface; suppressing convective flow of the first and second fluids such that mixing between the first and second fluids across the interface occurs substantially exclusively by diffusion. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein suppressing convective flow of the first and second fluids comprises restricting in a first dimension a portion of the first and second fluids at the interface. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the first dimension comprises a width of a microfluidic channel. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein convective flow is restricted due to non-slip layers present at the walls of the channel. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the second fluid is disposed in direct contact with the first fluid. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the first fluid is disposed within a branch of the flow channel. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the first fluid remains static within the branch channel due to a counter pressure. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the branch channel is dead-ended. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first fluid is disposed in contact with one side of an obstruction; the second fluid is disposed in contact with an opposite side of the obstruction; and the obstruction is removed from the channel to form the fluidic interface. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein: the first and second fluid are disposed in a microfluidic channel; the obstruction comprises an elastomer membrane present within the microfluidic channel; and the elastomer membrane portion is removed by being deflected from the channel in response to an actuation force. 11. The method of claim 2 wherein the first dimension comprises a width of a hydrophilic path. 