An automated processing system has an indexer bay perpendicularly aligned with a process bay within a clean air enclosure. An indexer in the indexer bay provides stocking or storage for work in progress wafers or articles. Process chambers are located in the process bay. A transfer robot moves wafers from a pod unsealed at a docking station into a carrier at a transfer station. The carrier has tapered or stepped outside surfaces engaging corresponding inside surfaces on a rotor within a process chamber. A process robot moves between the indexer bay and process bay to carry wafers to and from the process chambers. The process robot has a robot arm vertically moveable along a lift rail. Wafers are carried offset from the robot arm, to better avoid contamination. The automated system is compact and requires less clean room floor space.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing flat articles or wafers, comprising: a transfer station; a carrier at the transfer station, with the carrier having a first ring, a second ring, and a plurality of bars joined to the first and second rings, and with the side bars having grooves forming wafer holding positions, between the first and second rings; a first retainer arm pivotably attached to the first and second rings; a second retainer arm pivotably attached to the first and second rings; with the first and second retainer arms moveable between opened and closed positions on the carrier, and with the carrier having a wafer opening to allow movement of wafers into and out of the carrier, through the wafer opening, while the wafers are in a horizontal orientation, and generally parallel to the first and second rings; at least one retainer actuator engagable to pivot the retainer arms on the carrier; a process station; one or more process chambers in the process station; and a robot for moving the carrier from the transfer station to the process station. 2. The system of claim 1 with the retainer actuator supported from below the carrier. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a rotor within each of the process chambers, and with the rotor adapted to receive and hold the carrier, for spin processing. 4. The system of claim 1 further comprising an edge strip on the first and second retainer arms. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the wafer opening extends from 110 to 150 degrees. 6. A system for processing flat media, comprising: a transfer station; a generally cylindrical carrier having front and back end plates connected via a plurality of grooved side members for holding a batch of flat media, and with the front and back end plates substantially in a horizontal orientation, and with the grooved side members in a substantially vertical orientation, when the carrier is at the transfer station; a pair of spaced apart retainer arms pivotably attached to the carrier, and moveable from an open position, for loading or unloading flat media into the carrier, to a closed position, for processing the flat media, and with the retainer arms helping to secure the flat media in place within the carrier during processing; a retainer actuator moveable to pivot a retainer arm into the open or closed position; a process station including one or more process chambers; and a robot moveable between the transfer station and the process station. 7. The system of claim 6 with the robot further including an end effector having a pair of spaced apart arms each having a hook for engaging a slot in the carrier. 8. The system of claim 6 with a wafer opening formed between the retainer arms, when the retainer arms are in the open position, and with the wafer slot having a width greater than a diameter of the flat media, and less than a diameter of the front plate. 9. The system of claim 6 with the carrier having a wafer opening generally extending in an arc of about 110 to 150 degrees, between two adjacent side ribs, and with the arc dimensioned to allow movement of wafers into and out of the carrier, through the wafer opening, while the wafers are in a horizontal orientation, and generally parallel to the front and back plates. 10. A system for processing wafers, comprising: a rotor carrier having a first plate, a second plate, and a plurality of side bars between the first and second plates, and with the side bars having grooves forming wafer holding positions, between the first and second plates; a first retainer arm pivotably attached to the first and second plates; a second retainer arm pivotably attached to the first and second plates; with the first and second retainer arms moveable between opened and closed positions on the rotor carrier, and with the rotor carrier having a wafer opening between the first and second retainer arms, to allow movement of wafers into and out of the rotor carrier, through the wafer opening, while the wafers are in a horizontal orientation, and generally parallel to the first and second plates, at least one retainer actuator engagable to pivot the retainer arms on the rotor carrier; one or more spin/spray process chambers; and a robot for moving the rotor carrier into a process chamber. 11. A system for processing flat articles or wafers, comprising: a transfer station wherein wafers are transferred into a carrier for processing; a carrier positionable at the transfer station, for loading with wafers, with the carrier having a first plate, a second plate, and a plurality of side bars between the first and second plates, and with the side bars having grooves forming wafer holding positions, between the first and second plates; a first retainer arm and a second retainer arm, each pivotably attached to at least one of the first and second plates; with the first and second retainer arms moveable between opened and closed positions on the carrier, and with the carrier having a wafer opening between the retainer arms to allow movement of wafers into and out of the carrier, through the wafer opening, while the wafers are in a horizontal orientation; at least one retainer actuator engagable to pivot a retainer arm; a process station; one or more process chambers in the process station; and a robot for moving the carrier from the transfer station to the process station, reorienting the carrier so that the wafers are in a vertical or near vertical orientation, and placing the carrier into a process chamber. 12. A system for processing wafers, comprising: carrier means for holding wafers in a vertical or near vertical orientation while the wafers are rotated during processing; a transfer station; wherein wafers are transferred into or out of the carrier means, while the wafers are in a generally horizontal orientation; retainer means associated with the carrier means, with the retainer means moveable to an open position, for loading and unloading wafers into and out of the carrier means, and moveable to a closed position, for processing the wafers; actuator means for actuating the retainer means; a process station having at least one process chamber; and robotic movement means for reorienting the carrier means, so that the wafers are in a vertical or near vertical orientation, and then placing the carrier means into a process chamber. 