An improved system, device and method for characterizing a fluid sample that includes injecting a fluid sample into a mobile phase of a flow characterization system, and detecting a property of the fluid sample or of a component thereof with a flow detector comprising a mechanical resonator, preferably one that is operated at a frequency less than about 1 MHz, such as a tuning fork resonator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tuning fork resonator detector system, comprising: an inlet conduit for receiving a fluid sample; a head portion including a passageway for defining a detection cell in fluid communication with the inlet conduit; a tuning fork resonator including at least one tuning fork, at least a portion of said at least one tuning fork being housed in the passageway; an outlet conduit adapted for passage of the sample out of the head portion; and an apparatus for performing a non-chromatographic separation of the fluid sample upstream of the head portion. 2. The detector system of claim 1, wherein the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit have cross-sectional areas smaller than a cross sectional area of the head portion. 3. The detector system of claim 1, further comprising a source of a variable frequency input signal for oscillating the tuning fork resonator. 4. A detector for a flow characterization system, comprising: an inlet conduit for receiving a fluid sample; a detection cell including a flow passageway in fluid communication with the inlet conduit; a tuning fork resonator including at least one tuning fork that is operable at a frequency less than about 100 kHz, at least a portion of said at least one tuning fork being located in the flow passageway of the detection cell; a housing associated with the detection cell and adapted for connecting the tuning fork resonator with a signal generator, a signal receiver, or a combination thereof; and an outlet conduit in fluid communication with the flow passageway of the detection cell; wherein the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit are disposed generally orthogonally relative to each other, and wherein said at least one tuning fork has tines located in the detection cell in a fluid path between the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit. 5. A tuning fork resonator detector system, comprising: a filtration apparatus for performing a non-chromatographic separation of a sample; an inlet for receiving a liquid component of said sample downstream of the filtration apparatus; a detection cell in fluid communication with the inlet; a tuning fork resonator including at least one tuning fork that is operated at a frequency less than about 100 kHz, at least a portion of said at least one tuning fork being located in the detection cell; and an outlet adapted for passage of the liquid component of said sample out of the detection cell; wherein said at least one tuning fork has tines located in a fluid path between the inlet and the outlet; and wherein the tuning fork resonator is adapted for measuring viscosity of the liquid component of said sample. 6. The detector system of claim 5, further comprising data acquisition hardware in signaling communication with the tuning fork resonator. 7. The detector system of claim 6, further comprising a pump for advancing the liquid component of the sample through the detection cell. 8. The detector system of claim 5, further comprising a pump for advancing the liquid component of the sample through the detection cell. 9. The detector system of claim 5, further comprising a microprocessor in electronic communication with the tuning fork resonator to collect, process and analyze data obtained therefrom. 10. The detector system of claim 7, further comprising a microprocessor in electronic communication with the tuning fork resonator to collect, process and analyze the data obtained therefrom. 11. The detector system of claim 8, wherein the microprocessor also operates the pump. 12. A tuning fork resonator detector system, comprising: an inlet conduit for receiving a fluid sample; a detection cell including a flow passageway in fluid communication with the inlet conduit; a tuning fork resonator comprising at least one tuning fork having tines, at least a portion of said at least one tuning fork being located in the flow passageway of the detection cell; and an outlet conduit in fluid communication with the flow passageway of the detection cell for discharging the sample; the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit being disposed generally orthogonally relative to each other, and the tuning fork being orientated in the flow passageway such that bulk flow of the fluid sample is substantially parallel to primary surfaces of the tines of the tuning fork. 13. A tuning fork resonator detector system, comprising: an inlet conduit for receiving a fluid sample; a detection cell including a flow passageway in fluid communication with the inlet conduit; a tuning fork resonator, at least a portion of which is located in the flow passageway; and an outlet conduit in fluid communication with the flow passageway of the detection cell for discharging the sample; the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit being disposed relative to each other, and the tuning fork resonator being orientated in the flow passageway such that the dead volume of the flow passageway of the detection cell is less than about 75 microliters. 14. A tuning fork resonator detector system, comprising: an inlet conduit for receiving a fluid sample; a detection cell including a flow passageway in fluid communication with the inlet conduit; a tuning fork resonator, at least a portion of which is located in the flow passageway; and an outlet conduit in fluid communication with the flow passageway of the detection cell for discharging the sample; the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit being disposed at an obtuse angle relative to each other. 15. A tuning fork resonator detector system, comprising: an inlet conduit for receiving a fluid sample; a detection cell including a flow passageway in fluid communication with the inlet conduit; a tuning fork resonator, at least a portion of which is located in the flow passageway; and an outlet conduit in fluid communication with the flow passageway of the detection cell for discharging the sample; the detection cell having an internal volume ranging from about 1 microliter to about 500 microliters. 16. A tuning fork resonator detector system, comprising: an inlet conduit for receiving a fluid sample; a detection cell including a flow passageway in fluid communication with the inlet conduit; a tuning fork resonator, at least a portion of which is located in the flow passageway; an outlet conduit in fluid communication with the flow passageway of the detection cell for discharging the sample; a library comprising a plurality of fluids, the fluids being spatially separate and addressable for sampling; and an autosampler adapted for sampling the fluids and providing samples of the fluids to the inlet conduit. 17. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 15 or 16 wherein the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit are disposed generally orthogonally relative to each other. 18. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 13, 14, 15 or 16 wherein the tuning fork resonator comprises at least one tuning fork having tines, the tuning fork being orientated in the flow passageway such that bulk flow of the fluid sample is substantially parallel to primary surfaces of the tines of the tuning fork resonator. 19. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 12, 14, 15 or 16 wherein the dead volume of the flow passageway of the detection cell is less than about 75 microliters. 20. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 wherein the dead volume of the flow passageway of the detection cell is less than about 50 microliters. 21. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 wherein the dead volume of the flow passageway of the detection cell is less than about 20 microliters. 22. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 13, 15 or 16 wherein the inlet conduit and the outlet conduit are disposed at an obtuse angle relative to each other. 23. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 12, 13, 14 or 16 wherein the detection cell has an internal volume ranging from about 1 microliter to about 500 microliters. 24. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 wherein the detection cell has an internal volume ranging from about 5 microliters to about 50 microliters. 25. The tuning fork resonator detector system of claims 12, 13, 14 or 15 further comprising: a library comprising a plurality of fluids, the fluids being spatially separate and addressable for sampling; and an autosampler adapted for sampling the fluids and providing samples of the fluids to the inlet conduit. 