Provided are encapsulated belts and encapsulated pads for use in a variety of polishing application, including the chemical-mechanical polishing and planarization of semiconductor wafers and other workpieces. The encapsulated belts and pads are characterized by a robust seal between a polishing layer of the pad or belt and the edges of the subpad layer of the pad or belt. The robust seal is accomplished by casting a polymer directly over the subpad layer. The edges of the subpad layer may include one or more functional features that promote the formation of a watertight and slurry-resistant seal when the subpad layer is covered with a cast polymer. Also provided is a method of producing a robust seal between the polishing layer and the edge region of the subpad by encapsulating a subpad layer with a polymeric material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A belt or pad for polishing or planarizing a workpiece, comprising a substrate, a seamless polishing layer, and at least one subpad layer placed between said substrate and said polishing layer, wherein said polishing layer is cast over said subpad and substrate so as to encapsulate the subpad layer and substantially prevent moisture penetration into the subpad layer. 2. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad layer comprises a compressible non-woven material. 3. The belt or pad of claim 2, wherein said non-woven material comprises at least one of a polyester, polyamide, polyurethane, polyolefin, fluoropolymer, cotton, or wool. 4. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said substrate comprises stainless steel, plastic, or an elastomer. 5. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad layer is bonded to said substrate. 6. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad layer is bonded to said substrate by way of a pressure sensitive adhesive. 7. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said polishing layer comprises a polymerizable material. 8. The belt or pad of claim 7, wherein said polymerizable material includes at least one of a polyurethane, polyamide, a polyester, a polyacrylonitrile, a polyacrylate, a polymethacrylate, a polyvinylchloride, a polyvinyledene fluoride, a polytetrafluoroethylene, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polycarbonate, a thermoplastic, an epoxy, a silicone resin and a natural or synthetic rubber. 9. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad contains an interior region and at least one edge region disposed at a perimeter edge of the subpad layer, said interior region of the subpad layer being of substantially uniform thickness, and said edge region of said subpad layer being thinner than the interior region. 10. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad contains an interior region and at least one edge region disposed at a perimeter edge of the subpad layer, said edge region of said subpad layer is sloped such that the thickness of said edge region decreases gradually from said interior region outward. 11. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad contains an interior region and at least one edge region disposed at a perimeter edge of said subpad layer, wherein said edge region of said subpad layer is coated with an adhesive. 12. The belt or pad of claim 11, wherein said adhesive comprises a polyurethane-base adhesive which penetrates into said subpad layer. 13. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad contains an interior region and at least one edge region disposed at a perimeter edge of said subpad layer, said edge region being heat-sealed. 14. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said channel comprises a subpad material, said subpad material being less thick than the subpad material on either side of said channel. 15. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said subpad contains an interior region and at least one edge region disposed at a perimeter edge of said subpad layer, wherein at least said edge region of said subpad layer is coated with a barrier agent to facilitate uniform penetration of said polishing layer. 16. The belt or pad of claim 15, wherein said barrier agent consists of at least one of a polyurethane, an acrylic, a methacrylic, a urethane, a cyanoacrylate, a vinylic, an epoxy, or styrenic base adhesive. 17. The belt or pad of claim 15, wherein said barrier agent consists of at least one of a hot melt, contact cement, anaerobic acrylic, UV curable compound, emulsion, sealant, modified phenolic compound, plastisol, rubber adhesive, polyvinyl acetate, specialty adhesive or labeling adhesive. 18. A belt or pad for polishing or planarizing a workpiece, comprising a seamless polishing layer and at least one subpad layer having an interior region and at least one edge region disposed at a perimeter edge of said subpad layer, said polishing layer is cast over said subpad to encapsulate said subpad, wherein said edge region of said subpad layer comprises one or more functional feature that promotes the formation of a moisture-resistant seal. 19. The belt or pad of claim 18, wherein said subpad layer comprises a compressible non-woven material. 20. The belt or pad of claim 19, wherein said non-woven material comprises at least one of a polyester, polyamide, polyurethane, polyolefin, fluoropolymer, cotton, or wool. 21. The belt or pad of claim 18, wherein said polymerizable material includes at least one of a polyurethane, polyamide, a polyester, a polyacrylonitrile, a polyacrylate, a polymethacrylate, a polyvinylchloride, a polyvinyledene fluoride, a polytetrafluoroethylene, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polycarbonate, a thermoplastic, an epoxy, a silicone resin and a natural or synthetic rubber. 22. The belt or pad of claim 18, wherein said interior region of said subpad layer is of substantially uniform thickness, and said edge region of said subpad layer is less thick than said interior region. 23. The belt or pad of claim 18, wherein said edge region of the subpad layer is sloped such that the thicknesses of said edge region decrease gradually from said interior region outward. 24. The belt or pad of claim 18, wherein said edge region of said subpad layer is coated with an adhesive. 25. The belt or pad of claim 24, wherein said adhesive comprises a polyurethane-base adhesive which penetrates into said subpad layer. 26. The belt or pad of claim 18, said edge region of said subpad layer being heat-sealed. 27. The belt or pad of claim 1, wherein said channel comprises a subpad material, said subpad material being less thick than the subpad material on either side of said channel. 28. The belt or pad of claim 19, wherein at least said edge region of said subpad layer is coated with a barrier agent to facilitate uniform penetration by said polishing layer. 29. The belt or pad of claim 28, wherein said barrier agent consists of at least one of a polyurethane, an acrylic, a methacrylic, a urethane, a cyanoacrylate, a vinylic, an epoxy, or styrenic base adhesive. 30. The belt or pad of claim 28, wherein said barrier agent consists of at least one of a hot melt, contact cement, anaerobic acrylic, UV curable compound, emulsion, sealant, modified phenolic compound, plastisol, rubber adhesive, polyvinyl acetate, specialty adhesive or labeling adhesive. 31. A belt or pad for chemical mechanical polishing of an electronic workpiece, comprising a robust seal between a polishing layer and at least one compressible subpad layer edge region disposed at a perimeter edge of a compressible subpad, wherein said polishing layer is cast over said subpad to encapsulate said subpad and seal said subpad layer edge region against chemical mechanical slurry penetration. 32. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said polymerizable material includes at least one of a polyurethane, polyamide, a polyester, a polyacrylonitrile, a polyacrylate, a polymethacrylate, a polyvinylchloride, a polyvinyledene fluoride, a polytetrafluoroethylene, a polyethylene, a polypropylene, a polycarbonate, a thermoplastic, an epoxy, a silicone resin and a natural or synthetic rubber. 33. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said subpad layer comprises a compressible non-woven material. 34. The belt or pad of claim 33, wherein said non-woven material comprises at least one of a polyester, polyamide, polyurethane, polyolefin, fluoropolymer, cotton, or wool. 35. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said edge region of said subpad layer is thinner than the rest of said subpad layer. 36. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said subpad contains an interior region, said edge region of said subpad layer is sloped such that the thicknesses of said edge region decreases gradually from said interior region outward. 37. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said edge region is coated with an adhesive. 38. The belt or pad of claim 37, wherein said adhesive comprises a polyurethane-base adhesive which penetrates said subpad layer. 39. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said edge region is heat-sealed prior to casting said polishing layer. 40. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said channel comprises a subpad material, said subpad material being less thick than the subpad material on either side of said channel. 41. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein said channel comprises different materials on each side of the channel. 42. The belt or pad of claim 31, wherein at least said edge region of the subpad layer is coated with a barrier agent to facilitate uniform penetration by said polishing layer. 43. The belt or pad of claim 42, wherein said barrier agent consists of at least one of a polyurethane, an acrylic, a methacrylic, a urethane, a cyanoacrylate, a vinylic, an epoxy, or styrenic base adhesive. 44. The belt or pad of claim 42, wherein said barrier agent consists of at least one of a hot melt, contact cement, anaerobic acrylic, UV curable compound, emulsion, sealant, modified phenolic compound, plastisol, rubber adhesive, polyvinyl acetate, specialty adhesive or labeling adhesive. 45. The belt or pad of claim 31, comprising a substrate, wherein said polishing layer is cast over said subpad to combine with said substrate to encapsulate and seal said subpad layer. 46. The belt or pad of claim 45, wherein said substrate comprises stainless steel, plastic, or an elastomer. 47. The belt or pad of claim 45, wherein said edge region of said subpad layer is less thick than the rest of said subpad layer. 48. The belt or pad of claim 45, wherein said subpad contains an interior region, said edge region of said subpad layer is sloped such that the thicknesses of said edge region decreases gradually from said interior region outward. 49. The belt or pad of claim 45, wherein said edge region is coated with an adhesive. 50. The belt or pad of claim 45, wherein said edge region of said subpad layer is heat-sealed prior to casting said polishing layer. 51. The belt or pad of claim 45, comprising a channel adjacent to said perimeter edge of said subpad layer. 52. The belt or pad of claim 51, wherein said channel comprises a subpad material, said subpad material being less thick than the subpad material on either side of said channel. 53. The belt or pad of claim 51, wherein said channel comprises different materials on each side of the channel. 54. The pad or belt of claim 45, wherein at least said edge region of the subpad layer is coated with a barrier agent to facilitate uniform penetration by said polishing layer. 