A substrate handling robot includes an arm drive mechanism. A first arm is connected to the arm drive mechanism. A multiple substrate batch loader is connected to the first arm. A second arm is also connected to the arm drive mechanism. A single plane end effector is connected to the second arm. The multiple substrate batch loader produces a vacuum signal indicative of how many substrates are held by the multiple substrate batch loader. A vacuum signal interpreter alters the movement of the first arm in response to the substrate load number. An object sensor is connected to the second arm. The object sensor assesses the number of substrates in a cassette adjacent to the multiple substrate batch loader. A substrate loading sequence controller controls the first arm and the second arm in response to the number of substrates in the cassette, such that the second arm removes substrates from the cassette in such a manner as to facilitate complete loading of the multiple substrate batch loader.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of removing substrates from a storage site, said method comprising the steps of: removing a first substrate from a storage site with a single paddle; withdrawing a plurality of substrates from said storage site with a multiple substrate batch loader including a plurality of paddles; obtaining a vacuum signal from said multiple substrate batch loader indicative of whether said multiple substrate batch loader is partially loaded or fully loaded; and when said multiple substrate batch loader is partially loaded after withdrawal from said storage site, moving said multiple substrate batch loader at a speed different from a speed when said multiple substrate batch loader is moved while fully loaded. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of obtaining a vacuum signal from said multiple substrate batch loader indicative of how many substrates are held by said multiple substrate batch loader. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of assessing the number of substrates in said storage site. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of removing individual substrates from said storage site to facilitate complete loading of said multiple substrate hatch loader. 5. A method of removing substrates from a storage site, said method comprising the steps of: removing a first substrate from a storage site with a single paddle; withdrawing a plurality of substrates from said storage site with a multiple substrate batch loader including a plurality of paddles; and obtaining a single vacuum signal from a single vacuum sensor tied to said multiple substrate batch loader indicative of whether said multiple substrate batch loader carries a partial load of substrates or a full load, of substrates. 