The fastener to shaft insertion tool is disclosed which consists of a shaft holding member, a fastener insertion member, and force transmitting member. The fastener holding member facilitates the holding of the fastener and the application of forces to the fastener necessary for its proper insertion onto a shaft. Forces are provided to the fastener holding member by way of a hydraulic or pneumatic actuator. The fasteners are inserted adjacent a ring or gear being coupled to the shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanism for coupling a wheel comprising a circular depression to a shaft, the mechanism comprising: a shaft holding member; a drive head coupled to the shaft holding member configured to hold a cir-clip; an actuator coupled to the drive head configured to apply equalizing forces to the cir-clip to couple the cir-clip to the shaft; and a sensor coupled to the drive head, the sensor operably transmitting a signal indicative of the location of the drive head; wherein the drive head defines an annular depression, configured to hold the cir-clip. 2. The mechanism according to claim 1 wherein the annular depression comprises a cir-clip holding mechanism. 3. The mechanism according to claim 2 wherein the cir-clip holding mechanism is a magnet. 4. The mechanism according to claim 1 wherein the drive head comprises a cir-clip holding mechanism which is configured to releasably hold the cir-clip during insertion onto the shaft. 5. The mechanism according to claim 1 wherein the actuator is an air powered actuator. 6. The mechanism according to claim 1 wherein the actuator is configured to translate the drive head perpendicular to the shaft. 7. A mechanism for coupling a cir-clip to a shaft, the mechanism comprising: a shaft holding member; a drive head coupled to the shaft holding member comprising an annular depression configured to hold the cir-clip, the annular depression operably employing a vacuum to releasably hold the cir-clip; and an actuator coupled to the drive head configured to apply equalizing forces to the cir-clip to couple the cir-clip to the shaft. 8. The mechanism according to claim 7 wherein the drive head comprises a cir-clip holding mechanism which is configured to releasably hold the cir-clip during insertion onto the shaft. 9. The mechanism according to claim 7 further comprising a sensor coupled to the drive head, the sensor operably transmitting a signal indicative of the position of the drive head. 10. The mechanism according to claim 7 wherein the drive head defines an annular depression, configured to hold the cir-clip. 11. A mechanism for coupling an annular member with an annular depression onto a shaft, the mechanism comprising: a drive head configured to releasably hold a substantially semi-circular fastener; a first actuator configured to move the drive head generally perpendicular to the shaft so as to cause the substantially semi-circular fastener to be inserted onto the shaft substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the shaft; a second actuator configured to apply force to the substantially semi-circular fastener in a direction offset from that applied by the first actuator to cause the substantially semi-circular fastener to be fastened to the shaft; and a sensor coupled to the head, the sensor operably transmitting a signal indicative of the position of the head. 12. The mechanism according to claim 11 wherein the drive head comprises an annular depression configured to hold the substantially semi-circular fastener. 13. The mechanism according to claim 12 wherein the depression defines a force transmitting surface configured to apply forces from the first actuator to the substantially semi-circular fastener. 14. The mechanism according to claim 11 wherein the drive head is positioned adjacent the annular member so as to position the substantially semi-circular fastener adjacent annular member, the annular member being a gear. 15. The mechanism according to claim 11, wherein the annular member has a first surface, and wherein the drive head is positioned so as to place the substantially semi-circular fastener in contact with the first surface. 16. The mechanism according to claim 15 wherein the substantially semi-circular fastener is disposed between the first surface and the drive head. 17. The mechanism according to claim 11 wherein the first actuator comprises an air driven piston. 18. A mechanism for coupling an annular member with an annular depression onto a shaft, the mechanism comprising: a drive head configured to releasably hold a substantially semi-circular fastener; a first actuator configured to move the drive head generally perpendicular to the shaft so as to cause the substantially semi-circular fastener to be inserted onto the shaft substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the shaft; a second actuator configured to apply force in a direction offset from that applied by the first actuator to the substantially semi-circular fastener; and a robotic arm coupled to the drive head; wherein the drive head comprises an annular depression configured to hold the substantially semi-circular fastener. 19. The mechanism according to claim 18 further comprising a sensor coupled to the head, the sensor operably transmitting a signal indicative of the position of the head. 20. A system comprising: a substantially semi-circular fastener; an elongated member having an elongated axis; a drive head operable to releasably hold said fastener; said drive head moving in a first and non-perpendicular direction relative to said axis of said member during installation of said fastener to said member; said drive head operably moving in a second and substantially perpendicular direction relative to said axis of said member during completion of the installation of said substantially semi-circular fastener to said member; and a robotic arm coupled to said drive head. 21. The system according to claim 20, wherein said substantially semi-circular fastener is a cir-clip fastener. 22. A system comprising: a substantially semi-circular fastener; an elongated member having an elongated axis; a drive head operable to releasably hold said fastener; said drive head moving in a first and non-perpendicular direction relative to said axis of said member during installation of said fastener to said member; said drive head operably moving in a second and substantially perpendicular direction relative to said axis of said member during completion of the installation of said substantially semi-circular fastener to said member; and a backup configured to equalize reaction forces to said member. 23. The system according to claim 22, wherein said substantially semi-circular fastener is a cir-clip fastener. 24. A system comprising: a substantially semi-circular fastener; an elongated member having an elongated axis; a drive head operable to releasably hold said fastener; said drive head moving in a first and non-perpendicular direction relative to said axis of said member during installation of said fastener to said member; said drive head operably moving in a second and substantially perpendicular direction relative to said axis of said member during completion of the installation of said substantially semi-circular fastener to said member; and fastening a gear onto said member. 25. The system according to claim 24, wherein said gear fastened to said member by said fastener is a part of a motor vehicle. 26. The system according to claim 25, wherein said part is in a transmission. 27. The mechanism according to claim 24 further comprising a robotic arm coupled to said drive head. 28. The system according to claim 24, wherein said substantially semi-circular fastener is a cir-clip fastener. 29. A mechanism for coupling an annular member onto a shaft wherein the annular member comprises an annular slot, the mechanism comprising: a shaft holding member; a drive head configured to releasably hold a substantially semi-circular fastener; a first actuator configured to move the drive head generally perpendicular to the shaft so as to cause the substantially semi-circular fastener to be inserted onto the shaft substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the shaft; a second actuator configured to apply at least one of a horizontal or a vertical force directly to the substantially semi-circular fastener to couple the annular member onto the shaft; and a robotic arm coupled to the drive head. 30. The mechanism according to claim 29 wherein the drive head comprises an annular depression configured to hold the semi-circular fastener. 31. The mechanism according to claim 29 wherein the annular member has a first surface, and wherein the drive head is positioned so as to place the substantially semi-circular fastener in contact with the first surface. 32. The mechanism according to claim 31 wherein the substantially semi-circular fastener is disposed between the first surface and the drive head. 33. The mechanism according to claim 29 wherein the first actuator comprises an air driven piston. 34. A mechanism for coupling an annular member onto a shaft wherein the annular member comprises an annular slot, the mechanism comprising: a shaft holding member: a drive head configured to releasably hold a substantially semi-circular fastener; a first actuator configured to move the drive head generally perpendicular to the shaft so as to cause the substantially semi-circular fastener to be inserted onto the shaft substantially perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the shaft; a second actuator configured to apply at least one of a horizontal or a vertical force directly to the substantially semi-circular fastener to couple the annular member onto the shaft; and a sensor coupled to the head, the sensor operably transmitting a signal indicative of the position of the head. 