An on-demand wallpaper printer is provided comprising a pagewidth ink jet printhead for printing ink onto a media web moving along a path, a compartment arranged along the path downstream from the printhead so that the moving media web traverses the compartment and a source of heated air arranged above the compartment. The compartment has an opening configured so that the moving media web is able to descend into the compartment, as required, so as to adopt a suspended partial loop. The source of heated air is arranged above the opening and is operable to blow heated air through the opening into the compartment so as to dry printed ink on the suspended partial loop of the media web.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An on-demand wallpaper printer comprising: a pagewidth ink jet printhead for printing ink onto a media web moving along a path; a compartment arranged along the path downstream from the printhead so that the moving media web traverses the compartment, the compartment having an opening configured so that the moving media web is able to descend into the compartment, as required, so as to adopt a suspended partial loop; and a source of heated air arranged above the opening of the compartment, the source of heated air operable to blow heated air through the opening into the compartment so as to dry printed ink on the suspended partial loop of the media web wherein a door covers the opening of the compartment and acts to support the web when the door is closed. 2. A printer according to claim 1, wherein the door is arranged to open along an axis transverse to the path to reveal the opening. 3. A printer according to claim 1, further comprising a motor that operates a spool to operate the door, the spool winding and releasing a cord which operates the door. 4. A printer according to claim 1, further comprising a preheater located in the path before the opening for heating the web. 5. A printer according to claim 4, wherein the preheater is in the same plane as the door. 6. A printer according to claim 1, wherein the source of heated air comprises a blower which feeds a stream of air into a plenum in which is located a heating element. 7. A printer according to claim 6, further comprising a temperature sensor in the plenum for controlling the flow of heated air. 8. A printer according to claim 1, wherein the compartment further has two vents, each vent supplying vented air to a separate recirculation duct, the recirculation ducts located on opposite sides of the compartment, each recirculation duct supplying recirculated air to the source of heated air and having an exhaust opening at an upper extremity. 9. A printer according to claim 8, wherein the source of heated air is a pair of blowers which can receive recirculated air from the compartment. 