A printhead tile for use in a printing system, the printhead tile comprising: a printhead integrated circuit including an array of ink nozzles; a channel layer provided adjacent the printhead integrated circuit, the channel layer provided with a plurality of channel layer slots; an upper layer provided adjacent the channel layer, the upper layer provided with an array of upper layer holes on a first side, and an array of upper layer channels on a second side, at least some of the upper layer holes in fluid communication with at least some of the upper layer channels, and at least some of the upper layer holes aligned with a channel layer slot; a middle layer provided adjacent the upper layer, the middle layer provided with a plurality of middle layer holes, at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with at least some of the upper layer channels; and, a lower layer provided adjacent the middle layer, the lower layer provided with an array of inlet holes on a first side, and an array of lower layer channels on a second side, at least one of the inlet holes in fluid communication with at least one of the lower layer channels, and at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with a lower layer channel; whereby, the inlet holes receive different types or colors of ink, each type or color of ink separately transported to different nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead tile for use in a printing system, the printhead tile comprising: a printhead integrated circuit including an array of ink nozzles; a channel layer provided adjacent the printhead integrated circuit, the channel layer provided with a plurality of channel layer slots; an upper layer provided adjacent the channel layer, the upper layer provided with an array of upper layer holes on a first side, and an array of upper layer channels on a second side, at least some of the upper layer holes in fluid communication with at least some of the upper layer channels, and at least some of the upper layer holes aligned with a channel layer slot; a middle layer provided adjacent the upper layer, the middle layer provided with a plurality of middle layer holes, at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with at least some of the upper layer channels; and, a lower layer provided adjacent the middle layer, the lower layer provided with an array of inlet holes on a first side, and an array of lower layer channels on a second side, at least one of the inlet holes in fluid communication with at least one of the lower layer channels, and at least some of the middle layer holes aligned with a lower layer channel; whereby, the inlet holes receive different types or colors of ink, each type or color of ink separately transported to different nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit, wherein each ink nozzle comprises a nozzle chamber for holding the ink received via the inlet holes and a thermal bend actuator beam configured to thermally expand upon receipt of an electrical current so as to cause ejection of ink from the nozzle chamber. 2. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the upper layer and the middle layer each include one or more air holes. 3. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lower layer includes at least one air channel. 4. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein an endplate is provided adjacent the channel layer. 5. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the channel layer slots are provided as fingers integrated in the channel layer. 6. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead integrated circuit is bonded onto the upper layer. 7. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 6, wherein the array of ink nozzles overlie the array of upper layer holes. 8. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the channel layer acts to direct air flow across the printhead integrated circuit. 9. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the diameter of holes decreases from the inlet holes to the middle layer holes to the upper layer holes. 10. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, additionally including a nozzle guard adjacent the printhead integrated circuit. 11. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system is adapted for producing wallpaper having a consumer selected wallpaper pattern, to be printed on a media web to form the wallpaper. 12. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printhead assembly for the printing system, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module, the printhead module comprised of a plurality of the printhead tiles arranged substantially along the length of the printhead module; a fluid channel member held within the casing adjacent the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts, fluid within each of the ducts being in fluid communication with each of the printhead tiles; and, each printhead tile including a printhead integrated circuit formed to dispense fluid, a printed circuit board to facilitate communication with a processor controlling the printing, and fluid inlet ports to receive fluid from the fluid channel member. 13. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system has a printhead assembly with a communications module, the printhead assembly comprising: a casing; a printhead module; a fluid channel member positioned adjacent to the printhead module, the fluid channel member including a plurality of ducts that substantially span the length of the printhead module; a power supply connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the power supply port electrically connected to at least one busbar that substantially spans the length of the printhead module; a fluid deliveiy connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the fluid delivery port in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, a data connection port positioned at a distal end of the casing, the data port electrically connected to at least one printed circuit board positioned within the casing, the at least one printed circuit board further electrically connected to the printhead module. 14. The printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, for use in a printer provided with a micro-electro-mechanical printhead for producing printed media web, the printer comprising: a micro-electro-mechanical printhead extending at least the width of a media web; drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; at least one processor to receive and process a selected print pattern and to control printing of the print pattern, by the printhead, on the media web; the printhead including of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged along the length of the printhead; a fluid channel member adjacent the printhead; each printhead tile including a series of micro-electro-mechanical nozzle arrangements, each nozzle arrangement in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, each nozzle arrangement comprising: the nozzle chamber; a lever arm for forcing at least part of the ink from the nozzle chamber; the actuator beam for distorting the lever arm; and, at least one electrode for receiving the electrical current that heats and expands the actuator beam. 