A method for remotely monitoring a patient. The method includes generating and transmitting input commands to the robot from a remote station. The remote station may include a personal computer that is operated by a doctor. The input commands can move the robot so that a video image and sounds of the patient can be captured by a robot camera and microphone, respectively, and transmitted back to the remote station. The robot may also have a monitor and a speaker to allow for two-way videoconferencing between the patient and a doctor at the remote station. The robot can move from room to room so that a doctor can make "patient rounds" within a medical facility. The system thus allows a doctor visit patients from a remote location, thereby improving the frequency of visits and the quality of medical care.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for viewing a patient, comprising: generating a first robot movement input command at a remote station; transmitting the first robot movement input command; receiving the first robot movement input command at a robot that has a camera and a microphone; moving the camera to view a patient; and, transmitting an image of the patient and a sound of the patient from the robot to the remote station. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a second robot movement command, transmitting the second robot command and moving the robot across a floor of a medical facility. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot movement input command is generated by a doctor. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a video image and a sound of a doctor at the remote station to the robot, the video image being displayed by a monitor of the robot, the sound being generated by a speaker of the robot. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot movement input command causes the robot camera to zoom relative to the patient. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a video image of a medical chart from the robot to the remote station. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating and transmitting a question from the remote station to the robot. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the question is generated by a speaker of the robot. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the question is displayed by a monitor of the robot. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot movement input command is transmitted through a broadband network. 