Systems and associated methods provide a level of indirection between multiple host computers and multiple data storage resources, such as removable media data storage devices. At least one of the hosts is not provided with direct access to some of the removable media data storage devices. Instead, logical addresses are provided to the host computers, where the logical addresses can relate to physical addresses associated with the data storage resources. A data storage resource handle or logical proxy may be presented to a host, and a management layer determines whether the host receives access to physical data storage resources, or virtual resources that emulate the physical resources.
Claims We claim: 1. A data storage system for storing data for multiple host computers, the data storage system comprising: a set of multiple data storage drives each having a physical drive address; a set of multiple data storage media slots wherein each data storage media slot is configured to receive a removable tape cartridge or removable disk cartridge, and wherein each data storage media slot has a physical slot address; at least one robot configured to move a tape or disk cartridge between one of the data storage media slots and one of the data storage drives; at least one library controller coupled to the robot and the data storage drives; at least one library management unit coupled among the multiple host computers and the library controller, wherein the library management unit is configured to: receive input criteria from a user regarding user-desired data storage requirements for one of the multiple host computers; select unallocated data storage drives and data storage media slots based on the user-desired data storage requirements; assign logical drive addresses to the physical drive addresses associated with the selected data storage drives; assign logical slot addresses to the physical slot addresses associated with the selected data storage media slots; and define a first logical library for the one host computer based on the assigned logical addresses, wherein the library management unit may redefine the first logical library by retaining the assigned logical drive addresses and the assigned logical slot addresses, but reassigning at least one new data storage drive or data storage media slot to the one host computer, by reassigning one of the logical drive addresses to the physical drive address associated with the new data storage drive, or reassigning one of the logical slot addresses to the physical slot address associated with the new data storage media slot; and wherein a second logical library is defined under the library management unit as associated with another of the multiple host computers, wherein the first and second logical libraries combined define in one configuration a total number of data storage drives that is equal to the set of multiple data storage drives, and define in another configuration a total number of data storage drives that is greater than the set of multiple data storage drives; wherein the logical drive addresses in the second logical library are not associated with physical drive addresses until a predetermined command is received from the another host computer; another set of multiple data storage drives each having a physical drive address; another robot configured to move a tape or disk cartridge between one of the data storage media slots and one of the data storage drives in the another set; another library controller coupled to the another robot and the another set of data storage drives; a set of import and export data storage media slots shared under the first and second and logical libraries; and a configuration tool coupled to the library management unit, wherein the configuration tool includes a graphical user interface to permit a user to request additional data storage resources and to provide user input to define priorities for use of at least the data storage drives; and wherein the library management unit is further configured to: redefine the first logical library to include in the first logical library more data storage media slots or more data storage drives than were defined under the first logical library based on the additional data storage resources requested via the configuration tool; and define and redefine priorities for providing access to the data storage drives based on priorities defined via the configuration tool; and wherein the library management unit is further configured to: represent the robot, another robot, set of multiple data storage media slots, set of multiple data storage drives, and another set of multiple data storage drives as a single logical library to be partitioned into a separate logical library for each of the multiple host computers; and when the robot fails, substitute use of the robot with the another robot with respect to the first and second logical libraries. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the library management unit is further configured to: automatically define a logical library upon request by a user, wherein automatically defining a logical library includes selecting at least two groups of the data storage media slots and at least one of the data storage drives, and wherein the data storage media slots are logically grouped into groups of two or more contiguous data storage media slots; receive certain commands from an inquiring host computer and provide command responses that emulate responses from the data storage drives without dedicating one of the data storage drives to the inquiring host computer; define at least one data storage drive as a spare data storage drive, and substitute the spare data storage drive upon a detected occurrence of either (a) a load or unload failure with respect to one of the tape or disk cartridges and one of the data storage drives, or (b) exceeding a set threshold error limit; and allocate physical data storage drives based on requests from the host computers based on user-defined policies to balance load across the data storage drives, wherein the user-defined policies consider at least one of: a number of hours of operation associated with a given data storage drive, a number of tape or disk cartridge loads associated with a given data storage drive, a number of failures associated with a given data storage drive, a number of cleanings associated with a given data storage drive, and a number of read or write errors associated with a given data storage drive. 3. A method of assigning, to a host computer, data storage resources in a data storage library, the method comprising: providing user-selectable options regarding how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, wherein the user-selectable options include at least a semiautomatic data storage resource assignment option; receiving user input indicating how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, including at least one user input requirement; if the user input indicates semiautomatic data storage resource assignment, then automatically selecting data storage resources from unallocated data storage resources based at least in part on the one user input requirement; identifying physical addresses associated with the data storage resources selected from the unallocated data storage resources; at least temporarily associating logical addresses with identified physical addresses; providing the logical addresses to the host computer; and associating at least one of the logical addresses to a new physical address. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the selected resources correspond to a selected number of data storage slots and a selected number of data storage drives, and wherein the method further comprises: associating at least one of the logical addresses to a new physical address that differs from the identified physical addresses; receiving a command from the host computer; and providing a command response that emulates a response from one of the data storage drives, without dedicating one of the data storage drives to the host computer. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: spoofing at least some of the data storage resources in response to commands received from the host computer. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: providing rules for handling conflicting requests for the data storage resources by the host computer and another host computer, wherein the rules include assigning priorities to the host computers for using the data storage resources based on time-related criteria. 7. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: providing rules for handling conflicting requests for the data storage resources by the host computer and another host computer, wherein the rules include assigning a higher priority and a lower priority to the host computer and the another host computer, respectively, for using the data storage resources. 8. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: displaying to a user multiple priorities for using the data storage resources to assign to the host computer. 9. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: providing rules for handling conflicting requests for the data storage resources by the host computer and another host computer, wherein an application running on the host computer is configured to associate a higher than previously provided priority for using the data storage resources. 10. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: applying policies for determining use of the data storage resources between the host computer and another host computer. 11. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: oversubscribing use of the data storage resources between the host computer and another host computer. 12. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: receiving a user request for additional data storage resources for the host computer; and providing additional logical addresses to the host computer that correspond to additional data storage resources. 13. The method of claim 3 wherein the data storage resources include at least two robots, two sets of data storage slots, and two sets of data storage drives, and wherein the method further comprises: representing the two robots, two sets of data storage slots, and two sets of data storage drives as a single logical library to be partitioned into a separate logical library for each of the multiple host computers. 14. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises providing an interface to permit a user to select specific physical data storage resources for the host computer from among the data storage resources. 15. The method of claim 3 wherein providing user-selectable options includes providing an automatic option, and wherein in response to receiving user input selecting the automatic option, automatically establishing a predefined logical library with a predefined set of data storage resources. 16. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: defining at least one data storage drive as a spare data storage drive; detecting a set threshold error limit being exceeded, or a load or unload failure occurring with respect to a tape or disk cartridge and a data storage drive; and substituting the spare data storage drive. 17. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: defining at least one of multiple data storage drives as a spare data storage drive; and associating at least two of the multiple data storage drives as pooled drives that are not permanently associated with any one of multiple host computers, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the host computers for a duration of a requested data storage operation. 18. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: defining at least one of multiple data storage resources as at least one spare data storage resource. 19. The method of claim 3 further comprising: sharing a set of import and export data storage media slots between the host computer and another host computer. 20. The method of claim 3 wherein the data storage resources include at least two robots, and wherein the method further comprises: sharing the two robots between the host computer and another host computer, wherein no one robot is permanently associated with any one of the multiple host computers, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the host computers for a duration of a requested data storage operation. 21. The method of claim 3, further comprising: defining at least two of multiple data storage resources as pooled data storage resources that are not permanently associated with any one of multiple host computers, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the host computers for a predetermined duration. 22. The method of claim 3 wherein the data storage resources include data storage drives, and wherein the selected resources include a number of logical data storage drives, and wherein the method further comprises: allocating one of the data storage drives based on a request from the host computer based on policies to balance load across the data storage drives, wherein the policies consider at least one of: a number of hours of operation associated with a given data storage drive, a number of removable data storage medium loads associated with a given data storage drive, a number of failures associated with a given data storage drive, an amount of data read associated with a given data storage drive, an amount of data written associated with a given storage drive, a number of cleanings associated with a given data storage drive, and a number of read or write errors associated with a given data storage drive. 23. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further includes temporarily associating a logical address with a selected physical address of one of the data storage resources for the host computer, wherein the selected physical address is selected to balance load across the data storage resources. 24. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface to provide the user-selectable options and to define logical libraries, and wherein the user interface is further configured to permit a user to modify, delete and monitor logical libraries. 25. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: providing a graphical user interface to provide the user-selectable options. 26. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface to provide data capacity options; receiving user input indicating a request for additional data capacity; and assigning additional data storage resources in the data storage library. 27. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: receiving a command from the host computer; and providing a response to the received command by at least one of the following: passing the command to a data storage resource; mapping the command to a physical address; returning cached data; and providing a modified request back to the host computer. 28. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises powering down currently unused data storage resources. 29. The method of claim 3 wherein the data storage resources include multiple data storage medium locations, and wherein the method further comprises oversubscribing use of the multiple data storage medium locations between the host computer and another host computer. 30. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: defining a backup logical library for backing up data; and defining an export logical library for exporting data, wherein the back-up and export logical libraries time-share at least some of the data storage resources. 31. The method of claim 3 wherein the method further comprises: defining a virtual library, wherein the virtual library is not associated with any physical data storage resources of the data storage library. 32. A system for use with at least one data storage library and multiple computers, wherein the data storage library includes multiple data storage drives, multiple data storage cartridge slots each configured to receive a removable data cartridge, at least one robot configured to move a data cartridge between a cartridge slot and a data storage drive, and at least one library controller coupled to the robot and the data storage drives, wherein the multiple data storage drives and the multiple data storage cartridge slots each have a first address, wherein the system comprises: a library management unit coupled between the multiple host computers and the library controller, wherein the library management unit includes a configuration tool having a user interface, and wherein the library management unit is configured to: receive input criteria from a user, via the user interface of the configuration tool, regarding how to configure a logical library for one of the multiple computers; select a set of data storage drives and a set of data storage media slots from the multiple data storage drives and the multiple data storage media slots, respectively; assign second addresses to the set of data storage drives or the set of data storage media slots; provide the assigned second addresses to the one computer; receive a request from the one computer; associate one of the first addresses with one of the second addresses in response to the received request; receive a predetermined request from the one computer; and provide a response that emulates a response from one of the multiple data storage drives, without dedicating one of the data storage drives to the computer. 33. The system of claim 32 wherein the first addresses are physical addresses and the second addresses are logical addresses. 34. A method of utilizing multiple data storage drives among at least first and second computers or first and second separate logical users of the first computer, the method comprising: dedicating the multiple data storage drives to a pool; providing to each of the first and second computers, or the first and second separate logical users of the first computer, at least one logical address that is to represent a physical address of one of the multiple data storage drives; receiving a request for a data storage drive operation, wherein the request is associated with the one logical address; selecting one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool to balance load across the multiple data storage drives; and temporarily providing the selected data storage drive for at least the duration of the data storage drive operation. 35. A computer-readable medium whose contents cause at least one data processing device to perform a method for utilizing multiple data storage drives among at least first and second computers or first and second separate logical users of the first computer, the method comprising: dedicating the multiple data storage drives to a pool for use by both the first and second computers, or the first and second separate users of the first computer; receiving a request for a data storage drive operation from the first or second computers, or the first and second separate logical users of the first computer; selecting one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool; and temporarily providing the selected data storage drive for at least the duration of the data storage drive operation, wherein selecting one of the multiple data storage drives in the pool is based on at least one policy to balance load across the multiple data storage drives, wherein the policy considers at least one of: a number of hours of operation associated with a given data storage drive, a number of removable data storage medium loads associated with a given data storage drive, a number of failures associated with a given data storage drive, a number of cleanings associated with a given data storage drive, and a number of read or write errors associated with a given data storage drive; and wherein the computer-readable medium is a memory of a computer system. 36. A method of allocating to a host computer data storage resources in a data storage library, wherein the data storage library has multiple physical data storage resources, the method comprising: virtualizing the physical data storage resources in the data storage library; defining multiple logical proxies for the physical data storage resources in the data storage library and for the virtualized physical data resources; providing the multiple logical proxies to the host computer; receiving a command from the host computer, wherein the command is associated with one of the data storage resources; and deciding whether to provide the host computer with either an effective data connection to one of the multiple physical data storage resources, or one of the virtualized data storage resources. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein virtualizing the physical data storage resources includes providing an emulation of storage slots, data transfer devices and media, which correspond respectively to physical storage slots, physical data transfer devices and physical media, and wherein defining multiple logical proxies includes defining logical proxies for the physical storage slots, physical data transfer devices and physical media, and for the emulation of storage slots, data transfer devices and media. 38. A method of allocating to a host computer, in advance or in real time, data storage resources, the method comprising: virtualizing a set of data storage resources; defining multiple logical proxies for the set of data storage resources and for the virtualized set of data storage resources; providing the multiple logical proxies to the host computer; and exchanging commands and responses with the host computer, wherein the commands and responses are associated with one of the data storage resources in the set of data storage resources. 39. A method of providing data storage resources in a data storage library to a user, the method comprising: providing the library to the user for a first fee, wherein the library includes a set of data storage resources and a set of data storage management functions associated with the set of data storage resources, wherein the set of data storage resources includes multiple removable media data storage devices and multiple slots for receiving removable media elements, wherein, for the first fee, the user is provided with access to only a subset of either the data storage resources or a subset of the data storage management functions, and wherein the data storage management functions include pooling at least some of the removable media data storage devices or virtualizing at least some of the media elements; receiving a second fee from the user; and providing access to additional data storage resources or data storage management functions beyond those provided in the subset of data storage resources or data storage management functions. 40. A method of assigning, to a host computer, data storage resources in a data storage library, the method comprising: providing user-selectable options regarding how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, wherein the user-selectable options include at least a semiautomatic data storage resource assignment option; receiving user input indicating how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, including at least one user input requirement; if the user input indicates semiautomatic data storage resource assignment, then automatically selecting data storage resources from unallocated data storage resources based at least in part on the one user input requirement; identifying physical addresses associated with the data storage resources selected from the unallocated data storage resources; at least temporarily associating logical addresses with identified physical addresses; providing the logical addresses to the host computer; and applying policies for determining use of the data storage resources between the host computer and another host computer. 41. The method of claim 40 wherein the method further comprises: providing rules for handling conflicting requests for the data storage resources by the host computer and another host computer, wherein the rules include assigning priorities to the host computers for using the data storage resources based on time-related criteria. 42. The method of claim 40 wherein the method further comprises: providing rules for handling conflicting requests for the data storage resources by the host computer and another host computer, wherein the rules include assigning a higher priority and a lower priority to the host computer and the another host computer, respectively, for using the data storage resources. 43. The method of claim 40 wherein the method further comprises: displaying to a user multiple priorities for using the data storage resources to assign to the host computer. 44. The method of claim 40 wherein the method further comprises: providing rules for handling conflicting requests for the data storage resources by the host computer and another host computer, wherein an application running on the host computer is configured to associate a higher than previously provided priority for using the data storage resources. 45. The method of claim 40 wherein the method further comprises: oversubscribing use of the data storage resources between the host computer and another host computer. 46. A method of assigning, to a host computer, data storage resources in a data storage library, the method comprising: providing user-selectable options regarding how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, wherein the user-selectable options include at least a semiautomatic data storage resource assignment option; receiving user input indicating how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, including at least one user input requirement; if the user input indicates semiautomatic data storage resource assignment, then automatically selecting data storage resources from unallocated data storage resources based at least in part on the one user input requirement; identifying physical addresses associated with the data storage resources selected from the unallocated data storage resources; at least temporarily associating logical addresses with identified physical addresses; providing the logical addresses to the host computer; defining at least one of multiple data storage drives as a spare data storage drive; and associating at least two of the multiple data storage drives as pooled drives that are not permanently associated with any one of multiple host computers, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the host computers for a duration of a requested data storage operation. 47. The method of claim 46 wherein the method further comprises: defining at least one data storage drive as a spare data storage drive; detecting a set threshold error limit being exceeded, or a load or unload failure occurring with respect to a tape or disk cartridge and a data storage drive; and substituting the spare data storage drive. 48. The method of claim 46 further comprising: sharing a set of import and export data storage media slots between the host computer and another host computer. 49. The method of claim 46 wherein the data storage resources include at least two robots, and wherein the method further comprises: sharing the two robots between the host computer and another host computer, wherein no one robot is permanently associated with any one of the multiple host computers, but instead are associated with a requesting one of the host computers for a duration of a requested data storage operation. 50. The method of claim 46 wherein the selected resources correspond to a selected number of data storage slots and a selected number of data storage drives, and wherein the method further comprises: associating at least one of the logical addresses to a new physical address that differs from the identified physical addresses; receiving a command from the host computer; and providing a command response that emulates a response from one of the data storage drives, without dedicating one of the data storage drives to the host computer. 51. The method of claim 46 wherein the method further comprises: spoofing at least some of the data storage resources in response to commands received from the host computer. 52. A method of assigning, to a host computer, data storage resources in a data storage library, the method comprising: providing user-selectable options regarding how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, wherein the user-selectable options include at least a semiautomatic data storage resource assignment option; receiving user input indicating how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, including at least one user input requirement; if the user input indicates semiautomatic data storage resource assignment, then automatically selecting data storage resources from unallocated data storage resources based at least in part on the one user input requirement; at least temporarily associating logical addresses with identified physical addresses; identifying physical addresses associated with the data storage resources selected from the unallocated data storage resources; providing the logical addresses to the host computer; and temporarily associating a logical address with a selected physical address of one of the data storage resources for the host computer, wherein the selected physical address is selected to balance load across the data storage resources. 53. The method of claim 52 wherein the data storage resources include data storage drives, and wherein the selected resources include a number of logical data storage drives, and wherein the method further comprises: allocating one of the data storage drives based on a request from the host computer based on policies to balance load across the data storage drives, wherein the policies consider at least one of: a number of hours of operation associated with a given data storage drive, a number of removable data storage medium loads associated with a given data storage drive, a number of failures associated with a given data storage drive, an amount of data read associated with a given data storage drive, an amount of data written associated with a given storage drive, a number of cleanings associated with a given data storage drive, and a number of read or write errors associated with a given data storage drive. 54. The method of claim 52 wherein the data storage resources include multiple data storage medium locations, and wherein the method further comprises oversubscribing use of the multiple data storage medium locations between the host computer and another host computer. 55. The method of claim 52 wherein the method further comprises: defining a backup logical library for backing up data; and defining an export logical library for exporting data, wherein the back-up and export logical libraries time-share at least some of the data storage resources. 56. The method of claim 52 wherein the method further comprises: defining a virtual library, wherein the virtual library is not associated with any physical data storage resources of the data storage library. 57. The method of claim 52 wherein the data storage resources include at least two robots, two sets of data storage slots, and two sets of data storage drives, and wherein the method further comprises: representing the two robots, two sets of data storage slots, and two sets of data storage drives as a single logical library to be partitioned into a separate logical library for each of the multiple host computers. 58. A method of assigning, to a host computer, data storage resources in a data storage library, the method comprising: providing user-selectable options regarding how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, wherein the user-selectable options include at least a semiautomatic data storage resource assignment option; receiving user input indicating how to assign data storage resources in the data storage library, including at least one user input requirement; if the user input indicates semiautomatic data storage resource assignment, then automatically selecting data storage resources from unallocated data storage resources based at least in part on the one user input requirement; identifying physical addresses associated with the data storage resources selected from the unallocated data storage resources; at least temporarily associating logical addresses with identified physical addresses; providing the logical addresses to the host computer; and powering down currently unused data storage resources. 59. The method of claim 58 wherein the method further comprises: providing a graphical user interface to provide the user-selectable options. 60. The method of claim 58 wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface to provide data capacity options; receiving user input indicating a request for additional data capacity; and assigning additional data storage resources in the data storage library. 61. The method of claim 58 wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface to provide the user-selectable options and to define logical libraries, and wherein the user interface is further configured to permit a user to modify, delete and monitor logical libraries. 62. The method of claim 58 wherein the method further comprises providing an interface to permit a user to select specific physical data storage resources for the host computer from among the data storage resources. 63. The method of claim 58 wherein providing user-selectable options includes providing an automatic option, and wherein in response to receiving user input selecting the automatic option, automatically establishing a predefined logical library with a predefined set of data storage resources. 64. The method of claim 58 wherein the method further comprises: receiving a user request for additional data storage resources for the host computer; and providing additional logical addresses to the host computer that correspond to additional data storage resources. 