A method is provided for depositing a silicon-containing film in a micro-feature on a substrate by a low pressure deposition process in a processing system. A silicon-containing film can be formed in a micro-feature by providing a substrate in a process chamber of a processing system, and exposing a hexachlorodisilane (HCD) process gas to the substrate. A processing tool containing a processing system for forming a silicon-containing film in a micro-feature using a silicon and chlorine-containing gas such as a HCD process gas is provided. Alternatively, the micro-feature can be exposed to DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3 gases. Alternatively, the micro-feature can be exposed to (SiH.sub.4+HCl).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processing system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof; and depositing a silicon-containing material derived from the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature while reducing a percentage of the silicon-containing process gas as a percentage of process gas in the process chamber and increasing a percentage of a second process gas exposed to the micro-feature with a higher deposition rate. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises flowing the silicon-containing process gas at a flow rate between about 5 sccm and about 1,000 sccm. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises flowing the silicon-containing process gas at a flow rate of about 80 sccm. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing a hydrogen-containing gas to the micro-feature. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing to the micro-feature a hydrogen-containing gas comprising at least one of: H.sub.2, GeH.sub.4, B.sub.2H.sub.6, PH.sub.3, and SiH.sub.4 to the micro-feature, or any combination thereof. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the ratio of silicon-containing gas to the hydrogen-containing gas is between about 2:1 and 1:2. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises flowing a hydrogen-containing gas at a flow rate between about 5 sccm and about 5,000 sccm. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing a hydrogen-containing gas and a germanium-containing gas to the micro-feature. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises first processing with the silicon-containing process gas, then changing the process gas to HCD and another silicon-containing gas before the micro-feature is substantially filled. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises first processing with the silicon-containing process gas, then changing the process gas to another silicon-containing gas at about the time the micro-feature is substantially filled. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises first processing with the silicon-containing process gas, then changing the process gas to HCD and another silicon-containing gas at about the time the micro-feature is substantially filled. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the exposing further comprises first processing with the silicon-containing process gas, then gradually varying the percentage of the silicon-containing process gas and gradually substituting another silicon-containing gas. 13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing a process chamber pressure between about 0.1 Torr and 1 Torr. 14. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing a process chamber pressure of about 0.2 Torr. 15. A computer readable medium containing program instructions for execution on a processor, which when executed by the processor, cause a processing apparatus to perform the steps in the method recited in claim 1. 16. The method according to claim 1 wherein the percentage of the silicon-containing gas is reduced in increments. 17. The method according to claim 1 wherein the percentage of the silicon-containing gas is reduced along a gradual curve. 18. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processign system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof; and depositing a silicon-containing material derived form the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing a second silicon-containing gas to the micro-feature. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein the exposing further comprises flowing the second silicon-containing gas at a flow rate between about 5 sccm and about 1,000 sccm. 20. The method according to claim 18 wherein the exposing further comprises exposing a hydrogen-containing gas to the micro-feature. 21. The method according to claim 18 wherein the exposing further comprising exposing to the micro-feature a hydrogen-containing gas comprising at least one of: H.sub.2, GeH.sub.4, B.sub.2H.sub.6, PH.sub.3, and SiH.sub.4 to the micro-feature, or any combination thereof. 22. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processign system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof; and depositing a silicon-containing material derived form the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing any two of HCD, (SiH.sub.4+HCl), DCS, SiCl.sub.4, (HCD+SiH.sub.4), and SiHCl.sub.3 to the micro-feature. 23. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processign system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof; and depositing a silicon-containing material derived form the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing a hydrogen-containing gas and a second silicon-containing gas to the micro-feature. 24. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processign system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof; and depositing a silicon-containing material derived form the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing the silicon-containing process gas and at least one of a phosphor-containing gas, a boron-containing gas, and a germanium-containing gas to the micro-feature. 25. The method according to claim 24 wherein the exposing further comprises exposing a hydrogen-containing gas to the substrate. 26. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processign system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof; and depositing a silicon-containing material derived form the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature, wherein the exposing further comprises exposing H.sub.2 and GeH.sub.4 to the micro-feature. 27. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processign system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof; and depositing a silicon-containing material derived form the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature, wherein the exposing further comprises first processing with the silicon-containing process gas, then changing the process gas to another silicon-containing gas before the micro-feature is substantially filled. 28. A processing tool for depositing a silicon-containing film in a micro-feature comprising: a processing system; a transfer system configured to provide a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of the processing system; a gas injection system configured to expose a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature in the processing system, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is selected from the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, and the gas injection system is further configured to reduce a percentage of the silicon-containing process gas as a percentage of process gas in the process chamber while increasing a percentage of another process gas exposed to the micro-feature and having a higher deposition rate than the silicon-containing process gas; and a controller configured to control the processing tool. 29. The processing tool according to claim 28, wherein the processing system comprises a batch type processing system or a single wafer processing system. 30. The processing tool according to claim 28, wherein the processing system comprises a batch type processing system containing a process tube. 31. The processing tool according to claim 28, further comprising a process monitoring system. 32. The processing tool according to claim 28, wherein the gas injection system is configured to expose the silicon-containing process gas and at least one of a hydrogen-containing gas and a germanium-containing gas to the micro-feature. 33. A processing tool for depositing a silicon-containing film in a micro-feature comprising: a processing system; a transfer system configured to provide a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of the processing system; a gas injection system configured to expose a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature in the processing system, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is selected form the group consisting of HCD, DCS,SICl.sub.4, and siHCl.sub.3; and a controller configured to control the processing tool, wherein the processing system comprises a thermal processing system, a plasma processing system, or an atomic layer deposition system. 34. A method of depositing a silicon-containing material in a micro-feature on a substrate, the method comprising: providing a substrate including a micro-feature in a process chamber of a processing system; exposing a silicon-containing process gas to the micro-feature, wherein the silicon-containing process gas is at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3, or combinations thereof, in an amount sufficient to substantially fill the micro-feature while reducing a percentage of the silicon-containing process gas as a percentage of process gas in the process chamber and increasing a percentage of a second process gas exposed to the micro-feature with a higher deposition rate, and depositing a silicon-containing material derived from the silicon-containing gas in the micro-feature. 35. A system for processing a substrate including a micro-feature comprising: means for providing a substrate in a process chamber of a processing system; and means for exposing a process gas containing at least one of the group consisting of: HCD, DCS, SiCl.sub.4, and SiHCl.sub.3 to the micro-feature while reducing a percentage of the silicon-containing process gas as a percentage of process gas in the process chamber and increasing a percentage of a second process gas exposed to the micro-feature with a higher deposition rate. 