A mold assembly for blow molding plastic articles is provided having an upper mold member, a lower mold member and a lower support member. The lower mold member is preferably a relatively lightweight plate having a generally centrally located molding cavity matingly matched with an upper molding cavity in the upper mold member. The lower mold member is moved horizontally and optionally vertically beneath an extrusion head as a molten parison is extruded. The lower mold member is then transported to, and positioned within, the lower support member. The upper mold member is then closed over the lower mold member and lower support to close the mold assembly. The molten parison is then expanded in the mold cavity. After the molding operation, the plastic part may be removed and the lower mold member may be cooled by immersion in a cooling fluid. The apparatus to move the lower mold member during extrusion of the parison and to the molding station may be a robotic arm. The lower mold member is relatively lightweight so that it may be efficiently moved by the robot arm while the necessary structural support is provided by the lower support member.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mold assembly for blow molding a plastic article comprising: (a) an upper mold member having an upper molding cavity; (b) a lower support member; and (c) a lower mold member having a lower molding cavity, said lower molding cavity being shaped to co-operate with said upper molding cavity, said lower mold member having means for being matingly receivable in and supportable by said lower support member, said lower mold member being moveable from a position adjacent a parison extrusion head for receiving a parison in said lower molding cavity to a position where said lower member is received in said lower support member, and said mold assembly is closeable with said lower mold member positioned intermediate said upper mold member and said lower support member, said mold assembly, when closed, being capable of expanding said parison disposed within said mold assembly. 2. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said lower mold member comprises a substantially planar plate member. 3. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said lower molding cavity is centrally located in said lower mold member. 4. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said lower mold member is moveable by robotic means. 5. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said upper mold member and said lower support member are positionable remote from said extrusion head and said lower mold member is transportable between said extrusion head and said lower support member. 6. The mold assembly of claim 1 wherein said lower mold member and said lower support member have co-operating alignment means to align said lower mold member and said lower support member. 7. A molding system for blow molding plastic articles comprising a robotic arm, at least one extrusion head for extruding a parison of thermoplastic material suitable for use in blow molding, and a plurality of molding stations, each said molding station comprising an upper mold member having an upper molding cavity and a lower support member, said system further including at least one lower mold member having a lower molding cavity, said lower molding cavity being shaped to cooperate with said upper molding cavities, said lower mold member having means for being matably receivable in and supportable by said lower support member of each said molding station, said robotic arm being capable of moving said lower mold member between a position adjacent said extrusion head for receiving said parison in said lower molding cavity, to a position where said lower molding member is receivable in a lower support member of each said molding stations, and each said molding station is closable with said lower mold member positioned intermediate said upper mold member and said lower support member of said station, said molding station when closed, being capable of expanding said parison disposed within said mold assembly. 8. The molding system of claim 7 comprising a plurality of lower molding members. 9. The molding system of claim 8 wherein the shape of the molding cavity at each of said plurality of stations is the same. 10. The molding system of claim 8 wherein the shape of the molding cavity at each of said plurality of stations is different. 