The present invention is an improved method for installing a liner to repair a pipeline. The method involves placing a flexible lining hose that is coated with a thermosetting resin into the pipeline. A quick setting resin is also applied to the interior walls of the pipeline wherein the resin has a high contrast pigment agent therein in order to facilitate identification of and reopening of the various service laterals. A calibration hose is introduced into the lining hose and pressurized fluid is injected therein. The fluid presses the lining hose against the interior surface of the pipeline and cures the first and second thermosetting resins. The curing of the resins bonds the lining hose to the pipeline to form a rigid monolithic composite structure having high mechanical strength.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for installing a liner in an underground pipeline, having an interior and exterior surface and service laterals extending thereform, comprising the steps of: applying a first resin to the interior surface of the pipeline, said first resin including a pigment agent mixed therein; placing a lining hose in a collapsed state into the pipeline, said lining having an outer layer and inner layer, wherein the inner layer includes a second resin, said second resin being non-opaque; placing a calibration hose into the lining hose; introducing pressurized fluid into the calibration hose; expanding the calibration hose using a pressurized fluid, said calibration hose expanding against the inner layer of the lining hose causing said lining hose to contact said second resin; pressing the lining hose against the interior surface of the pipeline with the first resin residing therebetween to cure said first and second resins so that the lining hose bonds to the interior surface of the pipeline; removing the calibration hose from the lining hose; and removing regions of said lining hose adjacent said service laterals using a remote cutting device by visually identifying and clearing said service lateral locations. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first resin and second resin are made of epoxy. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first resin is quick setting structural epoxy. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the second resin is a slow cure, NSF epoxy. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said pigment agent is a light color. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said pigment agent is a white color. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said second resin agent is transparent. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said second resin is translucent. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the outer layer of the lining hose is made of a material selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl chloride, polyurethane, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyesters, and polyamides. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the inner layer of the lining hose further includes a non-woven fibrous material. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the non-woven fibrous material is a polyester-needled felt. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of pressing the calibration hose against the inner layer of the lining hose includes inverting the calibration hose. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of placing said lining hose into said pipeline includes inverting the lining hose. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressurized fluid introduced into the calibration hose is water. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressurized fluid introduced into the calibration hose is air. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressurized fluid introduced into the calibration hose is steam. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressurized fluid has a temperature of at least 100.degree. F. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the pressurized fluid has a temperature of about 130.degree. F. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: maintaining pressurized fluid in the calibration hose for 4-36 hours. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the calibration hose is manufactured of vinyl. 