An electrostatic device (10) includes a first flexible electrode (1) on which a plurality of second electrodes (2) are mounted so as to move with the first electrode (1). Upon the application of an electrical charge, the or each second electrode (2) causes deflection of the first electrode (1) which deflection is enhanced by the movement of the second electrode therewith. A variety of different designs of the device are possible to provide movement of the first electrode in a plurality of directions and also different types of in and out of plane movement, including rotation and twisting. The structure enables the device to operate at voltage levels compatible with integrated circuits and for the device to be manufactured using integrated circuit manufacturing techniques.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An electrostatic device including a first flexible electrode able to be deflected, and a plurality of second electrodes mounted on the first electrode so as to move therewith and to cause deflection of the first electrode upon the application of an electrical charge to the electrodes which causes an electrostatic force to be generated between the first and second electrodes; and at least one support member between the first and second electrodes operable to provide variable deflection between the first and second electrodes upon the application of an electrical charge to the electrodes. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein the device is mounted on a support. 3. A device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of second electrodes are mounted proximate one another on the first electrode. 4. A device according to claim 1, wherein the or at least some of the second electrodes are arranged in a linear array. 5. A device according to claim 1, wherein the or at least some of the second electrodes are arranged in a non-linear array. 6. A device according to claim 1, wherein the second electrodes are arranged to produce deflections of the first electrode about more than one axis. 7. A device according to claim 1, including at least one further first electrode, each said further first electrode being provided with at least one second electrode mounted thereon. 8. A device according to claim 7, wherein the first electrodes are coupled together mechanically such that deflection of one first electrode affects at least one of the position, orientation and altitude of the or at least one other first electrode. 9. A device according to claim 8, wherein the first electrodes are arranged in at least one of: serially, in parallel, in different planes and at an angle to one another. 10. A device according to claim 1, wherein the device is capable of movement in at least one of: out of and in its own plane. 11. A device according to claim 10, wherein deflection causes contraction of the device in one of: one and two directions. 12. A device according to claim 1, including a plurality of second electrodes arranged on the first electrode or electrodes in a manner as to provide deflection of the at least one first electrode in opposing directions. 13. A device according to claim 12, wherein at least one second electrode is located on a first surface of at least one first electrode and at least one second electrode is located on an opposing second surface of at least one first electrode. 14. A device according to claim 1, wherein at least one second electrode is stiffer than the first electrode on which it is mounted. 15. A device according to claim 1, wherein at least two adjacent second electrodes overlap. 16. A device according to claim 15, wherein said at least two second electrodes are provided with fingers extending substantially in a plane thereof and which interdigitate with one another. 17. A device according to claim 1, wherein there is provided a common supply rail for supplying the first and second electrodes with power. 18. A device according to claim 1, wherein there is provided a plurality of supply rails for supplying at least one first and at least one second electrodes in different manners. 19. A device according to claim 17, including a control unit operable to control electrical power applied to the first and second electrodes. 20. A device according to claim 1, wherein at least one second electrode is mounted on the first electrode in at least one of a bridge manner and a cantilever manner. 21. A device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second electrodes are layered members including at least one conductive layer. 22. A device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second electrodes has at least one of: apertures, weakness and strengthening areas to adjust the deflection properties thereof. 23. A device according to claim 1, wherein the first electrode is impervious without holes. 24. A device according to claim 1, wherein a gap between the first and second electrodes is kept under a vacuum or filled with at least one of: a gas, liquid, gel and a deformable solid material. 25. A device according to claim 1, wherein at least one second electrode is used as a part of an actuator and at least one second electrode is used as part of a sensor. 26. A device according to claim 1, wherein the device is used both as an actuator and a sensor on a time-sharing basis. 27. An electrostatic device arranged as a sensor including a first flexible electrode able to be deflected, and a plurality of second electrodes mounted on the first electrode so as to move therewith upon the deflection of one or the other or both of the first and second electrodes and to generate a measurable change in capacitance between the first and second electrodes. 28. A device according to claim 27, also arranged as an actuator, in which at least one second electrode is operable to cause deflection of the first electrode upon the application of an electrical charge to the electrodes which causes an electrostatic force to be generated between the first and second electrodes. 29. A device according to claim 28, wherein the device is operable as a sensor and as an actuator at different times or simultaneously. 30. A device according to claim 27, wherein the device is mounted on a support. 31. A device according to claim 27, wherein the plurality of second electrodes are mounted proximate one another on the first electrode. 32. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least one of the second electrodes are arranged in a linear array. 33. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least one of the second electrodes are arranged in a non-linear array. 34. A device according to claim 27, wherein the second electrodes are arranged to deflect with the first electrode about more than one axis. 35. A device according to claim 27, including at least one further first electrode, each said further first electrode being provided with at least one second electrode mounted thereon. 36. A device according to claim 35, wherein the first electrodes are coupled together mechanically such that deflection of one first electrode affects at least one of the position, orientation and altitude of the or at least one other first electrode. 37. A device according to claim 36, wherein the first electrodes are arranged in at least one of: serially, in parallel, in different planes and at an angle to one another. 38. A device according to claim 27, wherein the device is capable of movement in at least one of: out of and in its own plane. 39. A device according to claim 38, wherein deflection causes contraction of the device in one of: one and two directions. 40. A device according to claim 27, including a plurality of second electrodes arranged on the first electrode or electrodes in a manner to deflect with the first electrode in opposing directions. 41. A device according to claim 40, wherein at least one second electrode is located on a first surface of at least one first electrode and at least one second electrode is located on an opposing second surface of the at least one first electrode. 42. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least one second electrode is stiffer than the first electrode on which it is mounted. 43. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least two adjacent second electrodes overlap. 44. A device according to claim 43, wherein said at least two second electrodes are provided with fingers extending substantially in a plane thereof and which interdigitate with one another. 45. A device according to claim 27, wherein there is provided a common supply rail for supplying the first and second electrodes with power. 46. A device according to claim 27, wherein there is provided a plurality of supply rails for supplying at least one first and at least one second electrodes in different manners. 47. A device according to claim 45, including a control unit operable to control electrical power applied to the first and second electrodes. 48. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least one second electrode is mounted on the first electrode in at least one of a bridge manner and a cantilever manner. 49. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least one of the first and second electrodes are layered members including at least one conductive layer. 50. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least one of the first and second electrodes has at least one of: apertures, weakness and strengthening areas to adjust the deflection properties thereof. 51. A device according to claim 27, wherein the first electrode is impervious without holes. 52. A device according to claim 27, wherein a gap between the first and second electrodes is kept under a vacuum or filled with at least one of: a gas, liquid, gel and a deformable solid material. 53. A device according to claim 27, wherein at least one second electrode is used as a part of an actuator and at least one second electrode is used as part of a sensor. 54. An electrostatic device according to claim 1 or 27, produced by an integrated circuit fabrication, a MEMS fabrication or a microfabrication process. 55. A mirror assembly including an electrostatic device according to claim 1 or 27. 56. One of a speaker, earphone, microphone, ultrasonic detector and transducer assembly including an electrostatic device according to claim 1 or 27. 57. A robotic device including an electrostatic device according to claim 1 or 27. 58. One of an optical scanner, beam steering and all-optical-switch assembly including an electrostatic device according to claim 1 or 27. 59. One of a pressure sensor, pump and inkjet cartridge assembly including an electrostatic device according to claim 1 or 27. 60. One of an accelerometer and sensor assembly including an electrostatic device according to claim 1 or 27. 61. One of a one, two and three dimensional array of at least two electrostatic devices according to claim 1 or 27. 62. A device according to claim 18, including a control unit operable to control electrical power applied to the first and second electrodes. 63. A device according to claim 46, including a control unit operable to control electrical power applied to the first and second electrodes. 