A robotic semiconductor handling system includes two robot arms for transferring substrates between processing, cooling, and storage stations. The first robot arm has a paddle-type end effector adapted such that it can support one substrate at a primary location as well as a second substrate at a secondary staging location. The second robot arm is a Bernoulli-style wand that transfers a substrate from the primary location to the secondary one, and transfers substrates from either location to the process chamber. The use of the dual-location paddle allows for a significant reduction in cycle-time over a single paddle location and a Bernoulli wand system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot assembly for transferring thin, flat substrates between a first chamber and a hotter second chamber, comprising: a first robot arm having a supported end and a free end, said arm having a primary location for supporting a substrate on the free end and a secondary location for supporting a substrate between the free end and the supported end so that two substrates can be supported on the first arm at the same time; said arm being mounted for linear movement from a retracted position to an extended position for moving a substrate into and out of said first chamber; and a second robot arm having a supported end and a free end, said second arm having a Bernoulli end effector on its free end, said second arm being mounted for linear movement from a retracted position to an extended position for moving a substrate into and out of the second chamber, said second arm being positioned above said first arm with the supported end of the second arm being substantially directly above the supported end of the first arm when the arms are in their retracted positions; said arms being rotatable as a unit to be aligned with an entry to either the first chamber or the second chamber; and said arms being movable so that the Bernoulli end effector is directly above said first robot arm primary or secondary locations to enable a substrate positioned on either location to be lifted or released by the Bernoulli end effector, and said arms being movable so that a substrate may be removed from the second chamber and placed on said first arm while a second substrate is on the first arm in position to be transferred into the second chamber by the second arm. 2. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said Bernoulli end effector is above said first arm primary location when the arms are in their retracted positions. 3. The assembly of claim 2 wherein said Bernoulli end effector is above said first arm secondary location when the first arm is partially extended and said second arm is in its retracted position. 4. The assembly of claim 1 wherein said first arm has substrate supports at each of said locations to extend beneath the substrates to support a respective one of the substrates. 5. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said first arm is extendable from a first position to a second position in which the secondary location on the arm occupies the space occupied by the primary location before the arm was extended. 6. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said robot arms are mounted to be linearly movable so as to enable the first robot arm to move a substrate into and out of a load lock chamber and to transfer substrates to the Bernoulli wand end effector, and so as to enable the second robot arm to move substrates into and out of a process chamber. 7. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said first robot arm is mounted to be movable into or out of a cooling station. 8. A robot assembly to be positioned in a substrate handling chamber for transferring thin, flat substrates between a first chamber and a hotter second chamber, said assembly comprising: a first robot arm having a supported end and a free end forming a paddle end effector, said arm having a retracted position, said arm being configured to extend the free end beneath a substrate to lift it and retract it into the handling chamber; a second robot arm having a supported end and a free end forming a Bernoulli end effector adapted to create a low-pressure region above a substrate to lift it; a primary substrate support being positioned on the free end of the first robot arm and a secondary substrate support positioned between the primary support and a supported end of the first robot arm, said robot arms being movable to a position in which the Bernoulli end effector is positioned directly above a substrate located on the primary support of the first robot arm and the supported end of the second arm is directly above the supported end of the first arm whereby a substrate may be transferred from the first arm to the second arm; said first arm being extendable with respect to the second arm so as to position the secondary substrate support beneath the Bernoulli end effector to enable the Bernoulli end effector to transfer a substrate to the secondary support on the first robot arm; said Bernoulli end effector being extendable to move into a process chamber to withdraw a hot substrate from the process chamber into the handling chamber, while a substrate is resting on said secondary position on the paddle end effector. 9. The assembly of claim 8, wherein said Bernoulli end effector is retractable to deposit said hot substrate on said primary position on said paddle. 10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein said first robot arm is extendable towards the process chamber to a position wherein the secondary position of the paddle is beneath the Bernoulli end effector to enable a substrate to be transferred from the first robot arm to the Bernoulli end effector while said hot substrate is on the paddle primary position; and said second robot arm being extendable so that the Bernoulli end effector can deposit a second substrate within the process chamber while the hot wafer remains on said paddle. 11. The assembly of claim 10, wherein said paddle is movable to deposit said hot substrate in a cooling station. 12. The assembly of claim 8, wherein said Bernoulli end effector is moveable to deposit said hot substrate in a cooling station. 13. A method of transferring thin, flat substrates between a first chamber and a hotter second chamber, comprising: providing a first robot arm having a supported end and a free end, said arm having a primary location for supporting a substrate on the free end and a secondary location for supporting a substrate between the free end and the supported end so that two substrates can be supported on the first arm at the same time; moving said arm linearly from a retracted position to an extended position for moving a substrate into and out of said first chamber; providing a second robot arm having a supported end and a free end, said second arm having a Bernoulli end effector on its free end; moving said second arm linearly from a retracted position to an extended position for moving a substrate into and out of the second chamber; positioning said second arm above said first arm with the supported end of the second arm being substantially directly above the supported end of the first arm when the arms are in their retracted positions; rotating said arms as a unit to be aligned with an entry to either the first chamber or the second chamber; moving said arms so that the Bernoulli end effector is directly above said first robot arm primary or secondary locations to enable a substrate positioned on either location to be lifted or released by the Bernoulli end effector; and moving said arms so that a substrate is removed from the second chamber and placed on said first arm while a second substrate is on the first arm in position to be transferred into the second chamber by the second arm. 14. The method of claim 13 including moving said Bernoulli end effector above said first arm primary location when the arms are in their retracted positions. 15. The method of claim 14 including retracting said Bernoulli end effector above said first arm secondary location when the first arm is partially extended. 