An architecture shape memory alloy (SMA) actuators is presented called Segmented Binary Control (SBC). Instead of controlling the phase transition of the entire SMA wire as a single plant, we divide the SMA wire into many segments, each of which is controlled separately as an ON-OFF finite-state process. SBC produces a displacement as the addition of small displacements generated by the individual segments. Furthermore, the segmented architecture of SMA wires is extended to a multi-axis actuator array by arranging them in a two-dimensional array, so that the multi-axis control may be streamlined and coordinated. Moreover, the 2-D segmentation can be so designed that coordinated gross motion as well as independent fine movements may be generated with minimum complexity and minimum control loops.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A linear actuator comprising: a shape memory alloy actuator, said shape memory alloy actuator changing length upon application of a temperature change to said shape memory alloy actuator, a first end of said shape memory alloy actuator being fixed to a structure and a second end moving freely in response to length change of said shape memory alloy actuator, creating a controlled displacement at the second end; a plurarity of heating segments for changing temperature of said shape memory alloy actuator; a backing plate to maintain contact between said shape memory alloy actuator and said heating segments; said shape memory alloy actuator being slidably disposed between said heating segments and said backing plate while said shape memory alloy maintains contact with said heating segments; a control device for selectively changing the temperature of each of said heating segments to predetermined temperatures, wherein a first predetermined hot temperature reduces the length and a second predetermined cold temperature increases the length of said shape memory alloy actuator; wherein the displacement of said second end of said shape memory alloy actuator can be controlled by activating a selectable quantity of heating segments; wherein the shape memory alloy actuator comprises a material such that the material expands and contracts as the temperature changes. 2. The actuator of claim 1 wherein said control device includes a thermocouple for measuring the temperature of said segment. 3. The actuator of claim 1 wherein said heating segment is a thermoelectric device which increases temperature when an electric current flows in one direction and decreases temperature when the electric current flows in an opposite direction through the thermoelectric device, whereby cooling and heating can be performed with said heating segment. 4. The actuator of claim 1 wherein said heating segment is a strip heater. 5. The actuator of claim 1 wherein said backing plate comprises a plastic for insulating heat. 6. The actuator of claim 3 wherein said backing plate is a thermoelectric device identical to the said heating segments and controlled identically with the heating segment, thereby creating a symmetric heating segment. 7. The actuator of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of said shape memory alloy actuators, said shape memory alloy actuators being placed in parallel to each other. 8. The actuator of claim 7, wherein the heating segment is attached to the plurality of said shape memory alloy actuators thereby changing the temperature of at least a portion of the plurality of said shape memory alloy actuators with a single heating segment. 9. A method for using a shape memory alloy actuator for providing discretely controlled displacement comprising: providing a shape memory alloy actuator, said shape memory alloy actuator changing length upon application of a temperature change to said shape memory alloy actuator, a first end of said shape memory alloy actuator being fixed to a structure and a second end moving freely in response to length change of said shape memory alloy actuator, creating a controlled displacement at the second end; providing a plurarity of heating segments for changing temperature of said shape memory alloy actuator; providing a backing plate to maintain contact between said shape memory alloy actuator and said heating segments; disposing said shape memory alloy actuator slidably between said heating segments and said backing plate while said shape memory alloy maintains contact with said heating segments; providing a control device for selectively changing the temperature of each of said heating segments to predetermined temperatures, wherein a first predetermined hot temperature reduces the length and a second predetermined cold temperature increases the length of said shape memory alloy actuator; switching the temperature of each of said heating segments to said predetermined temperatures according to the displacement needed to be created by said shape memory alloy actuator; wherein the displacement of said second end of said shape memory alloy actuator can be controlled by activating a selectable quantity of heating segments; wherein the shape memory alloy actuator comprises a material such that the material expands and contracts as the temperature changes. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said control device includes a thermocouple for measuring the temperature of said segment. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said heating segment is a thermoelectric device which increases temperature when an electric current flows in one direction and decreases temperature when the electric current flows in an opposite direction through the thermoelectric device, whereby cooling and heating can be performed with said heating segment. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein said heating segment is a strip heater. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein said backing plate comprises a plastic. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said backing plate is a thermoelectric device identical to the said heating segments and controlled identically with the heating segment, thereby creating a symmetric heating segment. 15. The method of claim 9, further comprising a plurality of said shape memory alloy actuators, said shape memory alloy actuators being placed in parallel to each other. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the heating segment is attached to the plurality of shape memory alloy actuators thereby changing the temperature of at least a portion of plurality of shape memory alloy actuators with a single heating segment. 17. The method of claim 9, further comprising performing two modes of operation for each of said heating segment, wherein: in a first mode, a current is applied to the heating segment to cause a temperature change in said heating segment to increase to a predetermined hot temperature and upon reaching said hot temperature, decrease to a predetermined intermediate cold temperature and maintain said intermediate cold temperature, thereby reducing the length of said shape memory alloy actuator and maintaining the length; and in a second mode, a current is applied to the heating segment to cause the temperature in said heating segment to decrease to a predetermined cold temperature and upon reaching said cold temperature, to increase to a predetermined intermediate hot temperature and maintain said intermediate hot temperature, thereby increasing the length of said shape memory alloy actuator and maintaining the length. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising coordinating selection of said heating segments to be activated depending on the current status of the segments, wherein: in a first status, the temperature of said heating segment has not reached said intermediate temperature, thereby cannot be activated; and in a second status, the temperature of said heating segment has reached said intermediate hot or cold temperature, thereby being ready to be activated, wherein said coordination decreases the delay time of displacement change of said shape memory alloy actuator. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said intermediate cold temperature and said intermediate hot temperatures are equal to the surrounding temperature, thereby not requiring energy to maintain a state. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the length of said heating segments are all equal. 