An artificial Central Pattern Generator (CPG) based on the naturally-occuring central pattern generator locomotor controller for walking, running, swimming, and flying animals may be constructed to be self-adaptive, by providing for the artificial CPG, which may be a chip, to tune its behavior based on sensory feedback. It is believed that this is the first instance of an adaptive CPG chip. Such a sensory feedback-using system with an artificial CPG may be used in mechanical applications such as a running robotic leg, in walking, flying and swimming machines, and in miniature and larger robots, and also in biological systems, such as a surrogate neural system for patients with spinal damage.
Claims We claim: 1. A central pattern generator-based system for controlling at least one mechanical limb, comprising at least one mechanical limb; a system for phase adjustment of the central pattern generator based on a sensory trigger in or derived from sensory feedback; and a non-biological central pattern generator that autonomously generates a rhythmic pattern of commands for controlling repetitive cyclical movement of the at least one mechanical limb wherein said commands and said rhythmic pattern of commands are adapted as a function of sensory feedback. 2. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, wherein: said system for phase adjustment of the central pattern generator being based on at least one sensory trigger in or derived from sensory feedback; and a system for controlling firing frequency of motoneurons as a function of the sensory feedback or the sensory trigger. 3. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, further including at least one memory device. 4. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 3, wherein the memory device controls adaptation of output from the central pattern generator. 5. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 4, wherein the output includes integrate-and-fire neurons. 6. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, wherein the system is at least one chip. 7. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 6, including at least one chip containing electronic analogues of biological neurons, synapses and time-constraints. 8. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 6, including at least one chip that includes dynamic memories and phase modulators. 9. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 6, wherein the system includes at least one chip in which components are integrated with hardwired or programmable circuits. 10. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, wherein the central pattern generator is a distributed system of at least two non-linear oscillators. 11. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 10, wherein the distributed system includes at least one neuron phasically coupled to a neuron or a sensory input. 12. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 10, wherein the distributed system includes at least two neurons phasically coupled to each other, to another neuron, or to a sensory input. 13. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 12, wherein phasic coupling is in-phase, 180 degrees out of phase, or any number of degrees out of phase. 14. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 12, wherein phasic coupling is based on rhythmic movement application. 15. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 12, including a phase control circuit. 16. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 12, including at least one integrate-and-fire spiking motoneuron driven by the phasically coupled neurons. 17. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 6, wherein the system includes a central pattern generator chip and at least one biological neuron. 18. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 17, including multiple chips. 19. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, including at least one muscle. 20. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, wherein the system is a robot. 21. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, including at least one sensor for collecting sensory feedback. 22. The central pattern generator system of claim 21, including a system for phase adjustment of the central pattern generator based on at least one sensory trigger in the received sensory feedback. 23. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, wherein the sensory feedback is received from the at least one mechanical limb. 24. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 1, wherein the sensory feedback is received from a sensing modality. 25. A central pattern generator-based system for controlling at least one mechanical limb, comprising at least one mechanical limb; and a non-biological central pattern generator that autonomously generates a rhythmic pattern of commands for controlling repetitive cyclical movement of the at least one mechanical limb wherein said commands and said rhythmic pattern of commands are adapted as a function of sensory feedback wherein the system is a non-linear oscillator including electronic analogues of biological neurons, synapses and time-constraints, dynamic memories and phase modulators. 26. A central pattern generator-based system for controlling a biological system for rhythmic movement, comprising an interface with a biological system that can provide sensory feedback from said biological system; a system for phase adjustment of the central pattern generator based on a sensory trigger in or derived from sensory feedback; and a non-biological central pattern generator that autonomously generates a rhythmic pattern of commands for controlling repetitive cyclical movements of the biological system wherein said commands and said rhythmic pattern of commands are adapted as a function of sensory feedback. 27. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 26, further including at least one memory device. 28. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 27, wherein the memory device controls adaptation of output from the central pattern generator. 29. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 28, wherein the output includes integrate-and-fire neurons. 30. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 26, wherein the system is at least one chip. 31. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 30, including at least one chip containing electronic analogues of biological neurons, synapses and time-constraints. 32. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 30, including at least one chip that includes dynamic memories and phase modulators. 33. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 30, wherein the system includes at least one chip in which components are integrated with hardwired or programmable circuits. 34. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 30, wherein the system includes a central pattern generator chip and at least one biological neuron. 35. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 34, including multiple chips. 36. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 26, wherein the central pattern generator is a distributed system of at least two non-linear oscillators. 37. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 36, wherein the distributed system includes at least one neuron phasically coupled to a neuron or a sensory input. 38. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 36, wherein the distributed system includes at least two neurons phasically coupled to each other, to another neuron, or to a sensory input. 39. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 38, wherein phasic coupling is in-phase, 180 degrees out of phase, or any number of degrees out of phase. 40. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 38, wherein phasic coupling is based on rhythmic movement application. 41. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 38, including a phase control circuit. 42. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 38, including at least one integrate-and-fire spiking motoneuron driven by the phasically coupled neurons. 43. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 26, including at least one muscle. 44. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 26, including at least one sensor for collecting sensory feedback. 45. The central pattern generator system of claim 44, including a system for phase adjustment of the central pattern generator based on at least one sensory trigger in the received sensory feedback. 46. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 26, wherein the sensory feedback is received from the at least one biological limb. 47. The central pattern generator-based system of claim 26, wherein the sensory feedback is received from a sensing modality. 48. A central pattern generator-based system for controlling a biological system for rhythmic movement, comprising an interface with a biological system that can provide sensory feedback from said biological system; a non-biological central pattern generator that autonomously generates a rhythmic pattern of commands for controlling repetitive cyclical movements of the biological system wherein said commands and said rhythmic pattern of commands are adapted as a function of sensory feedback; a system for phase adjustment of the central pattern generator based on at least one sensory trigger in or derived from sensory feedback; and a system for controlling firing frequency of motoneurons as a function of the sensory feedback or the sensory trigger. 49. A central pattern generator-based system for controlling a biological system for rhythmic movement, comprising an interface with a biological system that can provide sensory feedback from said biological system; a non-biological central pattern generator that autonomously generates a rhythmic pattern of commands for controlling repetitive cyclical movements of the biological system wherein said commands and said rhythmic pattern of commands are adapted as a function of sensory feedback; wherein the system is a non-linear oscillator including electronic analogues of biological neurons, synapses and time-constraints, dynamic memories and phase modulators. 50. A method for controlling a mechanical or biological system for rhythmic movement, comprising: (A) measuring sensory feedback to obtain measured sensory feedback; (B) processing the measured sensory feedback to obtain data for a plurality of designated parameters; and (C) via a central pattern generator-based system, applying a set of rules to the obtained data to generate at least one signal for commanding the limb or biological system for rhythmic movement, wherein the central pattern generator-based system comprises a circuit that mimics a biological central pattern generator. 51. The method of claim 50, including (D) via the central pattern generator-based system, applying the generated signal to command the limb or biological system for rhythmic movement. 52. The method of claim 50, wherein the central pattern generator system comprises a circuit comprising at least two coupled non-linear oscillators. 53. The central pattern-based system as recited in claim 26, including at least one mechanical limb. 54. The autonomous device of claim 53 wherein the limb is a leg, arm, wing or appendage for swimming. 55. The movement device of claim 53 including at least two limbs. 56. The central pattern-based system as recited in claim 26, wherein the system is a breathing controller. 57. The central pattern-based system as recited in claim 26, wherein the system is a pacemaker. 58. The central pattern-based system as recited in claim 26, wherein the system is a running device. 59. A method for modifying a continuous waveform provided by a non-biological central pattern generator, comprising the steps of: (A) provision of a continuous waveform by a non-biological central pattern generator; (B) provision of sensory feedback to the non-biological central pattern generator; (C) rule-application by the non-biological central pattern generator to the sensory feedback; (D) based on the rule-application, determination by the non-biological central pattern generator to modify or maintain the continuous wave form. 60. The method of claim 59, wherein the non-biological central pattern generator modifies the wave form. 61. The method of claim 59, wherein the rule-application is the application of adaptive ring rules. 