A self-actuating robot or vehicle tether capable of moving itself, remaining free while traversing around obstacles, and free itself is disclosed. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, a valve is mounted to the tether or robot. An inflow conduit attached to or in the tether is connected to the valve. A fluid flows through the tether and the valve is opened and closed to create a waterhammer effect in the inflow conduit. The forces created on the tether from the waterhammer effect result in motion of the tether and in freeing of the tether from obstructions. Closing and opening the valve further creates pressure changes in the tether, thereby causing momentary dimensional changes in the tether. In an alternative embodiment, a plurality of valves are placed along the tether. Pulsing of the plurality of valves while a fluid flows through the tether results in the tether effectively moving itself.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a body; a guiding mechanism; a tether comprising a conduit and a valve; wherein said conduit is connected to an inflow port in said valve and closing said valve while a fluid travels through said conduit produces a waterhammer effect; and a locomotion assembly comprising at least one of wheels, tank treads and legs. 2. A robot according to claim 1, wherein said tether further comprises a second conduit connected to an outflow port in said valve. 3. A robot according to claim 2, said tether farther comprising a means for reducing a reciprocal waterhammer effect connected between said outflow port in said valve and said outflow conduit. 4. A robot according to claim 2, farther comprising a means for reducing a reciprocal waterhammer effect connected to said second conduit. 5. A robot according to claim 4, wherein said means for reducing a reciprocal waterhammer effect comprises an accumulation tank. 6. A robot according to claim 4, wherein said means for reducing a reciprocal waterhammer effect comprises a damper. 7. A robot according to claim 4, wherein said means for reducing a reciprocal waterhammer effect comprises an air bleed valve. 8. A robot according to claim 1, wherein said fluid comprises at least one of water, oil, hydraulic fluid, and air. 9. A robot according to claim 1, wherein said tether system further comprises a means for an operator to communicate with said robot. 10. A robot according to claim 1, wherein said valve is mounted to said body. 11. A robot comprising: a body; a guiding mechanism; a tether comprising a conduit and a valve; wherein said conduit is connected to an inflow port in said valve and closing said valve while a fluid travels through said conduit produces a waterhammer effect; and a serpentine locomotion system. 12. A robot according to claim 11, wherein said guiding mechanism and said serpentine locomotion system are integral with one another. 13. A robot comprising: a body; a guiding mechanism; and a tether comprising a conduit and a valve; wherein said conduit is connected to an inflow port in said valve and closing said valve while a fluid travels through said conduit produces a waterhammer effect; wherein said valve has an inflow side and an outflow side, said inflow conduit being located on the inflow side of said valve, and a bleed valve being located on said outflow side of said valve. 14. A robot comprising: a body; a guiding mechanism; and a tether comprising a conduit and a valve; wherein said conduit is connected to an inflow port in said valve and closing said valve while a fluid travels through said conduit produces a waterhammer effect; wherein said valve comprises a solenoid valve. 15. A robot comprising: a body; a guiding mechanism; and a tether comprising a conduit and a valve; wherein said conduit is connected to an inflow port in said valve and closing said valve while a fluid travels through said conduit produces a waterhammer effect; wherein said tether further comprises a communications cable. 16. A robot according to claim 15, further comprising a controller connected to an end of said tether opposite an end of said tether connected to said robot. 17. A robot according to claim 16, wherein said valve is controllable from said controller. 18. A robot comprising: a body; and a tether; wherein said tether comprises a conduit and a plurality of valves placed along said hose; wherein closing of at least one of said valves while a fluid travels through said hose produces a momentum transfer in said tether. 19. A robot according to claim 18, further comprising means for pulsing said plurality of valves between open and closed positions to cause movement of said tether. 20. A robot according to claim 18, wherein said closing of at least one of said valve produced a change in diameter of at least a portion of said conduit. 21. A robot according to claim 18, wherein said conduit comprises a hose. 22. A robot comprising: a body; a tether; wherein said tether comprises a conduit and a plurality of valves placed along said conduit; wherein closing of at least one of said valves while a fluid travels through said conduit produces a pressure change causing momentary changes in the dimensions of the tether. 23. A robot according to claim 22, wherein said momentary changes in dimensions comprises a change in diameter of at least a portion of said tether. 24. A robot according to claim 22, wherein said momentary changes in dimensions comprises a change in a length of at least a portion of said tether. 