An apparatus and method are provided for shipping, storing, and high-throughput processing of microarrays. An exemplary microarray cartridge according to the present invention includes a body having a cavity defined by an outer surface and two dimple features in fluid communication with the cavity. The cavity includes at least one ledge for supporting a microarray of biological probes, and a reaction chamber defined at least in part by the ledge. A plate covers the cavity and sealingly attaches to the outer surface of the body. Ports in the plate or the dimple features allow introduction of sample, reaction and wash solutions into the reaction chamber such that the solutions contacts the probes on the microarray. The disposable microarray cartridges of the present invention are used to package and store microarrays prior to use and to process microarrays in a high-throughput manner. The footprint of the cartridge is designed to be compatible with standard robotic formats or standard re-formatting approaches.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microarray cartridge, comprising: a body having a wall forming a cavity surrounded by a mating surface, said body comprising a reaction chamber and at least one microarray support contained within the cavity, said at least one microarray support supporting a microarray slide within the cavity such that a surface of the slide covers the reaction chamber; and a cover that (a) is covering the cavity such that said slide is disposed between said cover and the reaction chamber, and (b) is sealingly adhered with the mating surface of said body by non-removable adhering means on all but one edge of the mating surface, said all but one edge being unsealed to said cover. 2. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the non-removable adhering means comprises a heat seal between said cover and the mating surface of said body. 3. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the non-removable adhering means comprises a non-removable adhesive seal between said cover and the mating surface of said body. 4. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the non-removable adhering means does not include a mechanical fastener. 5. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of microarray supports within the cavity for positioning the microarray slide. 6. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the cartridge further comprises a first access site communicating with the reaction chamber for passing fluids from a delivery device and into the reaction chamber. 7. The microarray cartridge of claim 6, wherein the first access site is located on said body, wherein the access site is dimensioned to pass fluids from a fluid delivery device through the body wall and into the reaction chamber. 8. The microarray cartridge of claim 6, wherein the body further comprises a first dimple feature in communication with the reaction chamber and the first access site, the first dimple feature forming a passage within the body for a fluid around a first edge of the microarray slide and into the reaction chamber when the microarray slide is placed in the cavity. 9. The microarray cartridge of claim 8, wherein the first access site is located on said body and communicates with said dimple feature, such that fluid from the fluid delivery device passes through the body wall and into the dimple feature. 10. The microarray cartridge of claim 8, wherein the first access site is located on said cover and communicates with said dimple feature, such that fluid from the fluid delivery device passes through the cover and into the dimple feature. 11. The microarray cartridge of claim 10, wherein the first access site is an open port and the fluid delivery device is a pipette dimensioned to deliver fluids through the port. 12. The microarray cartridge of claim 10, wherein the first access site has a thickness of between 0.003 and 0.015 inches, and the fluid delivery device is a needle for piercing through the access site and delivering fluids into the first dimple feature. 13. The microarray cartridge of claim 8, wherein said body further comprises a second dimple feature in communication with the reaction chamber, the second dimple feature forming a passage for fluids around a second edge of the microarray slide and into the reaction chamber when the microarray slide is placed in the cavity. 14. The microarray cartridge of claim 13, wherein said cartridge further includes a second access site communicating with the second dimple feature for passing fluids into or out of the reaction chamber. 15. The microarray cartridge of claim 6, wherein the first access site is an open end of the cartridge at said unsealed edge, said cartridge further comprising a flange feature at the open end to facilitate entry of a fluid delivery device through the first access site before sealingly cohering said cover to said body at the open end. 16. The microarray cartridge of claim 15, wherein the flange feature comprises a first flange attached to and extending from an edge of said body at the access site and a second flange attached to and extending from a corresponding edge of said cover, such that the first and second flanges facilitate passage of the fluid delivery device through the open end of the cartridge between the body and the cover. 17. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the body is thermoformed and the body wall has a thickness of less than 0.065 inch. 18. The microarray cartridge of claim 17, wherein the thickness is between 0.005 and 0.025 inch. 19. The microarray cartridge of claim 18, wherein the thickness is between 0.010 and 0.015 inch. 20. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the body is injection molded and the body wall has a thickness of less than 0.1 inch. 21. The microarray cartridge of claim 20, wherein the thickness is between 0.032 and 0.075 inch. 22. The microarray cartridge of claim 21, wherein the thickness is between 0.040 and 0.060 inches. 23. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the body includes a plurality of cavities, each of the plurality of cavities having a corresponding reaction chamber and at least one corresponding microarray support for supporting a microarray slide. 24. The microarray cartridge of claim 23, wherein the plurality of cavities comprises at least four cavities. 25. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein reaction chamber has a volume of at least 500 .mu.L. 26. The microarray cartridge of claim 25, wherein the volume is at least 1 mL. 27. The microarray cartridge of claim 26, wherein the volume is 1 mL to 3 mL. 28. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein the body further comprises a plurality of obstacles within the reaction chamber arranged to affect motion of fluid within the chamber. 29. The microarray cartridge of claim 28, wherein the obstacles are attached to a surface of the reaction chamber opposite the microarray slide. 30. The microarray cartridge of claim 1 wherein the microarray slide comprises an array of nucleic acid probes distributed on the surface of a glass substrate, and wherein the microarray slide is positioned such that the probes are in communication with a fluid in the reaction chamber. 31. The microarray cartridge of claim 30, wherein the fluid includes nucleic acid molecules under conditions conducive to hybridization between the nucleic acid molecules and the nucleic acid probes on the microarray. 32. The microarray cartridge of claim 1, wherein said cover contiguously extends from an edge of the mating surface and hingably covers the cavity and sealingly adheres with the mating surface of said body. 