A device for grabbing bottles comprises a frame, a first set of gripping heads, shoulder pads, extendable arms, a second set of gripping heads. The frame has a first and a second parallel elongated support structure. The first set of gripping heads is mounted on the first elongated support structure. Each shoulder pad is mounted on the first elongated support structure adjacent to the first set of gripping heads. The extendable arms are mounted on the second elongated support structure. The second set of gripping heads is mounted on an end of the extendable arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for unloading a rack storing containers, wherein: the rack has a front space storing a first front container and a rear space storing a second rearwardly positioned container; the device comprises a robotic arm coupled to a frame having first and second gripping heads capable of gripping the neck of the first front positioned container and the second rearwardly positioned container; wherein the first gripping head is capable of displacement from a proximal position to a distal position relative to the frame to reach through the front space into the rear space for gripping the rear container and further wherein the second gripping head remains stationary in spatial relation to the frame, during all phases of operation; and a shoulder support structure coupled to the second gripping head for contacting a shoulder portion of the first front positioned and second rearwardly positioned containers to support a weight of the containers while the container is being gripped by the second gripping head. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the first gripping head is disposed on a distal end of a sliding rod, and wherein a movement of the sliding rod in a distal direction displaces the first gripping head from the proximal position to the distal position. 3. The device of claim 2 further comprising a pressure sensor disposed on the first gripping head, capable of sensing pressure applied to the first gripping head by a weight of the container so as to prevent overstressing the sliding rod when the first gripping head is displaced in the distal direction at the distal position. 4. The device of claim 3 further comprising claws disposed on the first and second gripping heads for gripping the neck of containers. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the shoulder support structure of the second gripping head is configured such that the shoulder support structure is in direct contact with a substantial area of the shoulder portion of the container. 6. The device of claim 4, wherein the shoulder support structure of the second gripping head is configured such that the shoulder support structure is in direct contact with an area that is at least 50% of the shoulder portion of the container. 7. The device of claim 3, wherein a distance between the first and second gripping heads changes as the first gripping head is displaced from the proximal position to the distal position. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is capable of displacing the frame from a first location where the rack is, to a second location away from the first location, wherein the second location comprises full bottles to be loaded unto the rack. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the containers are conventional 5-gallon water bottles. 10. A device for grabbing bottle comprising: a robotic arm coupled to a frame; a first gripping head with claws coupled to a sliding rod; a second gripping head with claws and further wherein the second gripping head remains stationary in spatial relation to the frame, during all phases of operation; wherein the first and second gripping heads are coupled to the frame; wherein the first gripping head is capable of movement along a longitudinal axis of the sliding rod in a distal direction; and wherein the second gripping head has shoulder support structure for contacting a shoulder portion of the bottle to support a weight of the bottle while the bottle is being gripped. 11. The device of claim 10 further comprising pressure sensor coupled to the claws of the first gripping head for sensing pressure applied to the claws by a weight of the bottle so as to alert an user when the sliding rod is overstressed. 12. The device of claim 11, wherein the shoulder support structure has a concave contact surface for contacting the shoulder portion. 13. The device of claim 10 further comprising a drive coupled to the claws of the first and second gripping heads for tightening the claws to secure around a neck portion of the bottles wherein the drive is driven by at least one of electric force, hydraulic force, and pneumatic force. 