An apparatus for producing a thixotropic metallic melt by simultaneously controlledly cooling and stirring the melt to form solid particles of a first phase suspended in a residual liquid second phase. Vigorous stirring of the metallic melt results in the formation of degenerate dendritic particles having substantially spheroidal shapes. The metallic melt is stirred to rapidly and efficiently circulate the forming semi-solid slurry. Circulation of the forming semi-solid slurry results in a substantially uniform temperature throughout. Through precision stirring and cooling, a semi-solid slurry is formed having a first solid phase of about 70 80 wt. % suspended in a second liquid phase.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for producing a metallic slurry material for use in semi-solid forming, comprising: a furnace adapted to contain a molten metal; a vessel positioned and arranged to receive a select amount of the molten metal directly from said furnace and adapted to process said select amount of the molten metal into a semi-solid slurry billet; and a shot sleeve positioned and arranged to receive at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet directly from said vessel and adapted to transfer the at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet into a mold for substantially immediate forming into a shaped part, wherein said vessel is positioned in direct fluid communication with said furnace. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said vessel is detachably coupled to said furnace. 3. An apparatus for producing a metallic slurry material for use in semi-solid forming, comprising: a furnace adapted to contain a molten metal; a vessel positioned and arranged to receive a select amount of the molten metal directly from said furnace and adapted to process said select amount of the molten metal into a semi-solid slurry billet; a shot sleeve positioned and arranged to receive at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet directly from said vessel and adapted to transfer the at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet into a mold for substantially immediate forming into a shaped part; and a positioning element constructed and arranged to reposition said vessel between a substantially vertical orientation for receiving said select amount of the molten metal, and a non-vertical orientation for discharging said at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet into said shot sleeve. 4. An apparatus for producing a metallic slurry material for use in semi-solid forming, comprising: a furnace adapted to contain molten metal; a vessel positioned and arranged to receive a select amount of the molten metal from said furnace while in a substantially vertical orientation and adapted to process said select amount of the molten metal into a semi-solid slurry billet; a positioning element constructed and arranged to reposition said vessel between said substantially vertical orientation and a non-vertical orientation; and a shot sleeve positioned and arranged to receive at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet discharged from said vessel while said vessel is in said non-vertical orientation and adapted to transfer the at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet into a mold for substantially immediate forming into a shaped part. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising: a cooling element arranged in thermal communication with said vessel to controllably cool said molten metal within said vessel; and a magnetic field generator positioned adjacent said vessel and adapted to produce a magnetic field that acts upon the molten metal to stir the molten metal within said vessel during controlled cooling to form the semi-solid slurry billet. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said vessel is positioned in direct fluid communication with said furnace. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said vessel is detachably coupled to said furnace. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said positioning element comprises a robotic arm adapted to reposition said vessel between said substantially vertical orientation and said non-vertical orientation. 9. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said positioning element comprises a tilting mechanism adapted to reposition said vessel between said substantially vertical orientation and said non-vertical orientation. 10. The apparatus of claim 4 further comprising a discharging element constructed and arranged to discharge said at least a portion of said semi-solid slurry billet from said vessel while said vessel is in said non-vertical orientation. 11. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said shot sleeve is positioned in immediate communication with vessel to receive said at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet directly from said vessel. 12. A method for producing a metallic slurry material for use in semi-solid forming, comprising: providing a furnace containing a liquid metal; providing a vessel; transferring a select amount of the liquid metal from the furnace directly into the vessel; transforming at least a portion of the select amount of the liquid metal within the vessel into a semi-solid slurry billet; transferring at least a portion of the semi-solid slurry billet from the vessel directly into the shot sleeve; and substantially immediately forming at least a portion of the slurry billet into a shaped part. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the transforming comprises electromagnetically stirring the liquid metal within the vessel while cooling the liquid metal at a controlled cooling rate. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising positioning the vessel in direct fluidic communication with the furnace prior the transferring. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the vessel includes an outlet adapted to open and close, the method further comprising: closing the outlet to maintain the select amount of the liquid metal within the vessel; and opening the outlet to allow the at least a portion of the slurry billet to be discharged from the vessel. 