A method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects includes the following steps, selecting a number of significant points on an object, categorizing the significant points into measurable points and specific points, defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points with a statistical regression model, creating a table of weighted values for the specific points and animating an object based on the weighted value table. The present invention uses the measured displacement of a number of measurable points to calculate expected positions of the specific points to reduce processing time and create real time images. The method uses a statistical analysis method to decrease access time to a database, save storage space of the database and create lifelike, real-time and animated images in accordance with the object as the object changed its surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects, and the method comprising: (1) selecting a number of significant points on a surface of an object; (2) categorizing the significant points into a number of measurable points and a number of specific points; (3) defining a relationship between the measurable points and the specific points with a statistic regression analysis by a. changing the surface of the object to create a series of base deformations; b. measuring displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base deformations; and c. using the statistic regression analysis to define the relationship by analyzing the measured positions of all the measurable points and the specific points for each base expression; (4) creating a table of weighted values for the specific points based on solving the statistic regression analysis; and (5) animating a deformed object with following steps: a. changing the surface of the object; b. measuring displacements of the measurable points; c. calculating predict positions of the specific points with the measured displacements of the measurable points and the table of weighted values; and d. using measured positions of all the measurable points and the calculated positions of all the specific points to create the deformed object. 2. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 1, wherein the statistic regression model is a first-order multiple linear regression model, and the first-order multiple linear regression model is solved by a least square approximation to calculate the weighted values. 3. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 2, wherein the surface of the object is two-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 4. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 2, wherein the surface of the object is three-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 5. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 1, wherein the statistic regression model is a multi-order multiple linear regression model, and the multi-order multiple linear regression model is solved by a least square approximation to calculate the weighted value. 6. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 5, wherein the surface of the object is two-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 7. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 5, wherein the surface of the object is three-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 8. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 1, wherein the surface of the object is two-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 9. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 1, wherein the surface of the object is three-dimensional whereby the displacements of all the measurable points and the specific points for each of the base expressions are measured from the changed surface of the object. 10. The method to imitate lifelike images for computer deformed objects as claimed in claim 9, wherein the object is a human face. 