An unmanned system performs inspection, identification and/or neutralization of underwater objects. An unmanned vehicle that operates at a water's surface stows underwater crawling and/or swimming vehicles that can operate underneath a water's surface. A winch associated with each robotic vehicle is mounted on the unmanned vehicle. An electro-mechanical tether electrically and mechanically couples a corresponding robotic vehicle to the unmanned vehicle, and is mechanically coupled to a corresponding winch for control of the paying out and reeling in thereof.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. An unmanned system for performing one or more of inspection, identification and neutralization of underwater objects, comprising: at least one remotely-operated robotic vehicle for operation underneath a water's surface, each said robotic vehicle having a slave controller, electrical propulsion means, underwater sensing means and explosive charge deploying means; an unmanned vehicle for operation at a water's surface, said unmanned vehicle having a mother controller, self-propulsion means, navigation means, wireless communication means, electrical energy generation means and means for stowing each said robotic vehicle; at least one winch mounted on said unmanned vehicle, each said winch being associated with one said robotic vehicle; and an electro-mechanical tether for electrically and mechanically coupling a corresponding one said robotic vehicle to said unmanned vehicle, each said tether mechanically coupled to a corresponding one said winch for control of the paying out and reeling in thereof, each said tether electrically coupling said mother controller to said slave controller and electrically coupling said electrical energy generation means to said electrical propulsion means. 2. An unmanned system as in claim 1 wherein said at least one robotic vehicle comprises a plurality of vehicles that can traverse the sea bottom. 3. An unmanned system as in claim 1 wherein said at least one robotic vehicle comprises a plurality of swimming vehicles. 4. An unmanned system as in claim 1 wherein said at least one robotic vehicle comprises: at least one vehicle that can traverse the sea bottom; and at least one swimming vehicle. 5. An unmanned system as in claim 1 wherein said unmanned vehicle has a multiple pontoon hull, and wherein each said robotic vehicle is stowed within said multiple pontoon hull when said tether associated therewith is reeled in on said winch associated therewith. 6. An unmanned system as in claim 1 wherein said navigation means includes a GPS receiver system. 7. An unmanned system as in claim 1 wherein said underwater sensing means includes at least one sonar sensor and a video camera. 8. An unmanned system as in claim 1 wherein said self-propulsion means is coupled to and supplies mechanical power for said electrical energy generation means. 9. An unmanned system for performing one or more of inspection, identification and neutralization of underwater objects, comprising: at least one first type of vehicle having explosive charges maintained thereon, each of said first type of vehicle equipped for traveling on the bottom of a body of water; at least one second type of vehicle having explosive charges maintained thereon, each of said second type of vehicle equipped for swimming in a body of water under the surface thereof; an unmanned boat having multiple pontoons for the floatation thereof, said boat equipped for navigated travel on water and for control of each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle; and an electro-mechanical tethering system mounted on said boat for (i) controlling the individual paying out of each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle from between said pontoons of said boat, (ii) controlling the individual reeling in of each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle to stowed positions between said pontoons of said boat, and (iii) electrically coupling said boat to each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle for the supply of electrical power and control signals thereto. 10. An unmanned system as in claim 9 wherein said boat includes: a GPS receiver system for determining the location of said boat; and a wireless communication system coupled to said GPS receiver system for transmitting the location of said boat and for receiving navigation control signals for said boat from a remote location. 11. An unmanned system as in claim 9 wherein said boat includes: a self-propulsion system that generates mechanical power for said navigated travel; and a generator system coupled to said self-propulsion system for converting a portion of said mechanical power to said electrical power supplied to each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle. 12. An unmanned system according to claim 9 wherein each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle includes means for releasing said explosive charges maintained thereon. 13. An unmanned system as in claim 9 wherein each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle includes means for disconnecting from said electro-mechanical tethering system when commanded by one of said control signals received from said boat. 14. An unmanned system as in claim 9 wherein each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle includes means for sensing and imaging underwater objects. 15. An unmanned system for performing one or more of inspection, identification and neutralization of underwater objects, comprising: at least one first type of vehicle having explosive charges maintained thereon, each of said first type of vehicle equipped for traveling on the bottom of a body of water; at least one second type of vehicle having explosive charges maintained thereon, each of said second type of vehicle equipped for swimming in a body of water under the surface thereof; an unmanned boat having multiple pontoons for the floatation thereof, said boat equipped for navigated travel on water and for control of each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle; a GPS receiver system mounted on said boat for determining the location of said boat; a wireless communication system mounted on said boat and coupled to said GPS receiver system for transmitting the location of said boat and for receiving navigation control signals for said boat from a remote location; a self-propulsion system mounted on said boat that generates mechanical power for said navigated travel; a generator system mounted on said boat and coupled to said self-propulsion system for converting a portion of said mechanical power to electrical power; and an electro-mechanical tethering system mounted on said boat for (i) controlling the individual paying out of each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle from between said pontoons of said boat, (ii) controlling the individual reeling in of each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle to stowed positions between said pontoons of said boat, and (iii) electrically coupling said boat to each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle for the supply of said electrical power and control signals thereto. 16. An unmanned system according to claim 15 wherein each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle includes means for releasing said explosive charges maintained thereon. 17. An unmanned system as in claim 15 wherein each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle includes means for disconnecting from said electro-mechanical tethering system when commanded by one of said control signals received from said boat. 18. An unmanned system as in claim 15 wherein each of said first type of vehicle and said second type of vehicle includes means for sensing and imaging underwater objects. 