A robot system that includes a robot and a remote station. The remote station includes a head worn device worn on the head of a user. The head worn device senses movement of the user's head and generates corresponding input signals. The input signals are processed into robot movement commands and transmitted to the robot, typically through a broadband network. The robot movement commands move a camera of the robot. The camera movement tracks movement of the user's head so that the user can scan the visual field without having to generate separate input commands for the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system, comprising: a remote station that has a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and has a monitor that displays the remote station image, and a camera that captures a robot image, said monitor and said camera move together in at least two degrees of freedom; and, a head worn device, said head worn device generates input signals in response to movement of said head worn device, said robot camera moves in conjunction with the movement of said head worn device, said head worn device displays said robot images. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said head worn device displays graphics. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said head worn device includes a microphone. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 6. A robot system, comprising: a remote station with a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and has a monitor that displays the remote station image and a camera captures a robot image, said monitor and said camera move together in at least two degrees of freedom; and, head worn means for moving said robot camera in conjunction with movement of a user's head and displaying the robot images. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein said head worn device means displays graphics. 9. The system of claim 6, wherein said head worn means includes a microphone. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 11. A method for moving a camera of a robot, comprising: moving a head worn device; generating input signals that correspond to the movement of the head worn device; processing the input signals into a robot command; transmitting the robot command to a robot; moving together a monitor and a camera of the robot in response to the robot command in at least two degrees of freedom; capturing a robot image with the robot camera; capturing a remote station image with a remote station camera; displaying the robot image with the head worn device; displaying the remote station image on the monitor of the robot; and, moving the robot across a surface. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising transmitting video images between the robot and a remote station. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising entering a robot input command into a microphone of the head worn device and processing the robot input command into a robot movement command, transmitting the robot movement command to the robot, and moving the robot. 14. A robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a remote station that is coupled to said broadband network and has a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and coupled to said broadband network and has a monitor that displays the remote station image, and a camera that captures a robot image, said monitor and said camera move together in at least two degrees of freedom; and, a head worn device, said head worn device generates input signals in response to movement of said head worn device, said robot camera moves in conjunction with the movement of said head worn device, said head worn device displays said robot images. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein said head worn device displays graphics. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein said head worn device includes a microphone. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 19. A robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a remote station that is coupled to said broadband network, said remote station has a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and is coupled to said broadband network and has a monitor that displays the remote station image, and a camera that captures a robot image, said monitor and said camera move together in at least two degrees of freedom; and, a head worn device means for moving said robot camera in conjunction with movement of a user's head and displaying the robot images. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 21. The system of claim 19, wherein said head worn means displays graphics. 22. The system of claim 19, wherein said head worn means includes a microphone. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 24. A method for moving a camera of a robot, comprising: moving a head worn device; generating input signals that correspond to the movement of the head worn device; processing the input signals into a robot command; transmitting the robot command to a robot through a broadband network; moving together a monitor and a camera of the robot in response to the robot command in at least two degrees of freedom; capturing a robot image with the robot camera; capturing a remote station image with a remote station camera; displaying the robot image with the head worn device; displaying the remote station image on the monitor of the robot; and, moving the robot across a surface. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising transmitting video images between the robot and a remote station. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising entering a robot input command into a microphone of the head worn device and processing the robot input command into a robot movement command, transmitting the robot movement command to the robot, and moving the robot. 27. A robot system, comprising: a remote station that has a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and has a single monitor that swivels and displays the remote station image, and a camera that captures a robot image; and, a head worn device, said head worn device generates input signals in response to movement of said head worn device, said robot camera moves in conjunction with the movement of said head worn device, said head worn device displays said robot images. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein said head worn device displays graphics. 30. The system of claim 27, wherein said head worn device includes a microphone. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 32. A robot system, comprising: a remote station with a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and has a single monitor that swivels and displays the remote station image and a camera that captures a robot image; and, head worn means for moving said robot camera in conjunction with movement of a user's head and displaying the robot images. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 34. The system of claim 32, wherein said head worn device means displays graphics. 35. The system of claim 32, wherein said head worn means includes a microphone. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 37. A method for moving a camera of a robot, comprising: moving a head worn device; generating input signals that correspond to the movement of the head worn device; processing the input signals into a robot command; transmitting the robot command to a robot; swiveling a monitor and a camera of the robot in response to the robot command; capturing a robot image with the robot camera; capturing a remote station image with a remote station camera; displaying the robot image with the head worn device; displaying the remote station image on the monitor of the robot; and, moving the robot across a surface. 38. The method of claim 37, further comprising transmitting video images between the robot and a remote station. 39. The method of claim 37, further comprising entering a robot input command into a microphone of the head worn device and processing the robot input command into a robot movement command, transmitting the robot movement command to the robot, and moving the robot. 40. A robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a remote station that is coupled to said broadband network and has a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and coupled to said broadband network and has a single monitor that swivels and displays the remote station image, and a camera that captures a robot image; and, a head worn device, said head worn device generates input signals in response to movement of said head worn device, said robot camera moves in conjunction with the movement of said head worn device, said head worn device displays said robot images. 41. The system of claim 14, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 42. The system of claim 14, wherein said head worn device displays graphics. 43. The system of claim 14, wherein said head worn device includes a microphone. 44. The system of claim 17, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 45. A robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a remote station that is coupled to said broadband network, said remote station has a camera that captures a remote station image; a mobile robot that is controlled by said remote station and is coupled to said broadband network and has a single monitor that swivels and displays the remote station image, and a camera that captures a robot image; and, a head worn device means for moving said robot camera in conjunction with movement of a user's head and displaying the robot images. 46. The system of claim 45, wherein said mobile robot includes a holonomic mobile platform. 47. The system of claim 45, wherein said head worn means displays graphics. 48. The system of claim 45, wherein said head worn means includes a microphone. 49. The system of claim 48, wherein said remote station includes a speech interface that interprets robot commands entered through said microphone. 50. A method for moving a camera of a robot, comprising: moving a head worn device; generating input signals that correspond to the movement of the head worn device; processing the input signals into a robot command; transmitting the robot command to a robot through a broadband network; swiveling a monitor and a camera of the robot in response to the robot command; capturing a robot image with the robot camera; capturing a remote station image with a remote station camera; displaying the robot image with the head worn device; displaying the remote station image on the monitor of the robot; and, moving the robot across a surface. 51. The method of claim 50, further comprising transmitting video images between the robot and a remote station. 52. The method of claim 50, further comprising entering a robot input command into a microphone of the head worn device and processing the robot input command into a robot movement command, transmitting the robot movement command to the robot, and moving the robot. 