A method of a single wafer wet/dry cleaning apparatus comprising: a transfer chamber having a wafer handler contained therein; a first single wafer wet cleaning chamber directly coupled to the transfer chamber; and a first single wafer ashing chamber directly coupled to the transfer chamber.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for atmospheric and sub-atmospheric processing of a wafer comprising: an atmospheric transfer chamber having first a wafer handler contained therein; a sub-atmospheric transfer chamber having a second wafer handler contained therein; a first load lock coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber and to said atmospheric transfer chamber; a first sub-atmospheric processing module coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; a wet cleaning module coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; and an integrated particle monitoring tool coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; and a controller for controlling the operation of said integrated particle monitoring tool and the operation of said wet cleaning module wherein said controller includes stored information for controlling the clean of a subsequent wafer in said wet cleaning module based upon results taken in said integrated particle monitoring tool of a wafer previously cleaned in said wet cleaning module. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein further comprising an ashing module coupled to said atmospheric transfer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first sub-atmospheric chamber is selected from the group consisting of: an etch module, a CVD deposition module, an ashing module, a sputter module, an oxidation module, and an anneal module. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a second load lock coupled between said atmospheric transfer chamber and said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first and said second load locks are single wafer load locks. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising, a wafer cassette coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber for providing wafers to be loaded into said atmospheric transfer chamber. 7. An apparatus for etching and cleaning a wafer comprising: an atmospheric transfer chamber having a first wafer handler contained therein; a sub-atmospheric transfer chamber having a second wafer handler contained therein; a first load lock coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber and to said atmospheric transfer chamber; a single wafer wet cleaning module directly coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; an etch module couple to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; and a critical dimension (CD) measurement tool coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising an integrated particle monitoring tool coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising a controller for controlling said wet cleaning module wherein said controller includes stored instructions for determining the operation of said wet cleaning module for a subsequent wafer depending upon results in said integrated particle monitoring tool of a wafer previously cleaned in said single wafer wet cleaning module. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising an ashing module coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a second ashing module coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a controller for controlling the operation of said critical dimension monitoring tool and for controlling the operation of said etch module and wherein said computer includes stored information for controlling the operation of said etch module depending upon measurement taken by said critical dimension monitoring tool. 13. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a second etch module coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber. 14. An apparatus for the formation of an electrode comprising: an atmospheric transfer chamber having a first wafer handler contained therein; a sub-atmospheric transfer chamber having a second wafer handler contained therein; a first load lock coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber and to said atmospheric transfer chamber; a wet cleaning module coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; an integrated thickness measurement tool coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; a deposition module coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; and an controller for controlling the operation of said deposition module and said integrated thickness measurement tool wherein said controller stores information for determining process parameters for deposition of a film onto a subsequent wafer in said deposition chamber based upon results taken in said integrated thickness measurement tool of a wafer having a film previously deposited in said deposition chamber. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising an integrated particle monitoring tool coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising an integrated thickness measurement tool coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said controller controls the operation of said integrated particle monitoring tool and said wet cleaning module and wherein said controller includes information for controlling the cleaning of a subsequent wafer in said wet clean module based upon results taken in said integrated particle monitoring tool of a wafer previously cleaned in said wet cleaning module. 18. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising an integrated thickness measurement tool couple to said atmospheric transfer chamber. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising a single wafer thermal process module coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber. 20. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a second single wafer thermal process tool coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber. 21. The apparatus of claim 14 further comprising a second load lock coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber and to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber. 22. An apparatus for the photolithography processing of a wafer comprising: a single wafer wet cleaning module; a photolithography module; and a transfer chamber having a wafer handling device contained therein, said wafer transfer chamber directly coupled to said single wafer wet cleaning module and to said photolithography module. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said single wet cleaning module comprises: a plate having an acoustic energy generating device coupled to a first side; means for positioning a wafer horizontally above a second side of said plate opposite said first side; and means for applying a cleaning solution onto said plate second side. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said means for providing fluid to said plate second side comprises an aperture formed through said plate and a conduit coupled to said aperture for providing said cleaning solution through said aperture to said plate second side. 25. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said photolithography module comprises: a photoresist application station for applying a photoresist film on a wafer; a soft bake station for heating said photoresist film; and a exposure station for exposing said photoresist to radiation. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said wafer handling device is connected to a linear track in said transfer chamber and wherein said wafer handling device can access said wet clean module, said spin station, said soft bake station, and said exposure station. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said single wafer cleaning module is adjacent to said spin station, wherein said spin station is adjacent to said soft bake station, wherein said soft bake station is adjacent to said stepper station. 28. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said single wafer clean module is adjacent to said spin station on a first side and is adjacent to said soft bake station on a second side opposite said first side. 29. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said single wafer clean module is adjacent to said soft bake station on a first side and is adjacent to said exposure station on said second side opposite said first side. 30. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein said transfer chamber includes a filter for filtering amine and ammonia vapors from the ambient in said transfer chamber. 31. A photoresist processing apparatus comprising: a photoresist application tool for forming a photoresist film on a wafer frontside opposite a wafer backside; a backside cleaning tool for cleaning the backside of a wafer while said photoresist film is on said wafer front side, wherein said backside cleaning tool is coupled directly to said photoresist application tool; and an exposure tool for exposing a photoresist film formed on a frontside of a wafer to radiation after cleaning the backside of said wafer, wherein said exposure tool is directly coupled to said backside cleaning tool. 32. The photolithography processing apparatus of claim 31 further comprising a first wafer handling robot for moving a wafer between stations of said photoresist application tool and for transferring a wafer from said photoresist application tool to said backside cleaning tool. 33. The photolithography processing apparatus of claim 32 further comprising a second wafer handling robot located in said exposure tool for transferring a wafer from said backside cleaning tool into said exposure tool. 34. The photolithography processing apparatus of claim 31 wherein said photoresist application tool includes a bake station to remove a water vapor from a wafer, and a spin station for forming a photoresist film on a wafer, and a soft bake station for removing solvents from a photoresist film formed on a wafer. 35. An apparatus for processing a wafer comprising: a single wafer backside cleaning tool; a photoresist application tool; an exposure tool for exposing a photoresist film formed on a frontside of a wafer to radiation; and a transfer chamber having a wafer handling device contained therein, said wafer transfer chamber directly coupled to said photoresist application tool, said transfer chamber directly coupled to said exposure tool, and said transfer chamber directly coupled to said single wafer backside cleaning tool. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 further comprising a backside particle monitoring tool for inspecting the backside of a wafer for particles, wherein said backside particle monitoring tool is directly coupled to said transfer chamber. 37. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said single wafer backside cleaning tool comprises a plate having acoustic energy generating devices coupled to a first side; means for positioning the wafer horizontally above a second side of said plate opposite said first side; and means for applying a cleaning solution onto said plate second side. 38. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said single wafer backside cleaning tool comprises a brush for removing particles from the backside of a wafer. 39. The apparatus of claim 35 wherein said single wafer backside cleaning tool comprises an air knife for providing an air flow to create an air shear to remove particles from a wafer backside. 40. A single wafer wet/dry cleaning apparatus comprising; a transfer chamber having a wafer handler contained therein; a first single wafer wet cleaning module directly coupled to said wafer transfer chamber; a first single wafer ashing module directly coupled to said transfer chamber; a integrated particle monitoring tool coupled to said transfer chamber; and a controller for controlling the operation of said integrated particle monitoring tool and said wet cleaning module wherein said controller includes information on how to clean a subsequent wafer in said wet cleaning module based upon results taken in said integrated particle monitoring tool of a wafer previously cleaned in said wet clean module. 41. The apparatus of claim 35 further comprising a second single wet wafer wet cleaning module directly coupled to said transfer chamber; and a second single wafer ashing module directly coupled to said transfer chamber. 