An apparatus for winding the stator for a dynamoelectric machine is provided. The apparatus includes a stator nest located on a mounting member, the stator nest including a front side for receiving a stator and a back side located opposite from the front side. The stator nest defines a horizontal longitudinal axis and includes a collet located at the front side for engaging and gripping the outer surface of a stator positioned within the collet. A collet actuator is located on a side of the mounting member opposite from the front side, and the collet actuator actuates the collet to engage with and disengage from the stator. A winding tool extends through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side. A reciprocating driver is connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest. An oscillating driver connected to the winding tool drives the winding tool in oscillating movement. A wire feeder for feeding wire through the winding tool is supported adjacent the oscillating driver and is supported for reciprocating movement with the winding tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for winding a stator for a dynamoelectric machine, the apparatus comprising: a stator nest located on a mounting member, the stator nest including a front side for receiving a stator and a back side located opposite from the front side; the stator nest comprising a collet located at the front side for engaging and gripping the outer surface of a stator positioned within the collet; a winding tool extending through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side, the winding tool including a wire passage for guiding wire to the stator located in the collet; a reciprocating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest; the winding tool including a winding tool shaft extending from a connection to the reciprocating driver to the stator nest, and the winding tool shaft passing through the collet actuator between the reciprocating driver and the stator nest; a collet actuator located on a side of the mounting member opposite from the front side, the collet actuator actuating the collet to engage with and disengage from the stator; and wherein the collet is rotatable relative to the mounting member, and including a nest driver connected to the collet for driving the collet in rotational movement. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, including an oscillating driver connected to the winding tool shaft for driving the winding tool in oscillating movement. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, including a wire feeder for drawing wire from a wire supply at a controlled rate and for pushing wire through the winding tool. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the collet actuator comprises an air actuated collet closer. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, including a tray containing a plurality of stators, and an articulated robot arm for removing a stator from the tray and placing it within the collet. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the robot arm includes an end portion comprising a plurality of radially moveable fingers, the fingers being moveable radially outwardly for engaging within the stator, and the fingers being moveable radially inwardly for disengaging from the stator. 7. An apparatus for winding a stator for a dynamoelectric machine, the apparatus comprising: a stator nest located on a mounting member, the stator nest including a front side for receiving a stator and a back side located opposite from the front side; the stator nest comprising a collet located at the front side for engaging and gripping the outer surface of a stator positioned within the collet; a winding tool extending through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side, the winding tool including a wire passage for guiding wire to the stator located in the collet; a reciprocating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest; the winding tool including a winding tool shaft extending from a connection to the reciprocating driver to the stator nest, and the winding tool shaft passing through the collet actuator between the reciprocating driver and the stator nest; a collet closer for actuating the collet to engage with and disengage from the stator, the collet closer including a collet actuator actuated by a controller and located on a side of the mounting member opposite from the front side, the collet actuator actuating the collet to engage with and disengage from the stator; and wherein the collet is rotatable relative to the mounting member, and including a nest driver connected to the collet for driving the collet in rotational movement. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the collet closer is located in axially spaced relation to the stator nest. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the collet closer comprises an air actuated collet closer. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, including a wire feeder for drawing wire from a wire supply at a controlled rate and for pushing wire through the winding tool. 11. An apparatus for winding a stator for a dynamoelectric machine, the apparatus comprising: a stator nest located on a mounting member, the stator nest including a front side for receiving a stator and a back side located opposite from the front side; the stator nest comprising a collet located at the front side for engaging and gripping the outer surface of a stator positioned within the collet; a winding tool extending through the stator nest from the back side toward the front side, the winding tool including a wire passage for guiding wire to the stator located in the collet; a reciprocating driver connected to the winding tool for driving the winding tool in reciprocating movement relative to the stator nest; the winding tool including a winding tool shaft extending from a connection to the reciprocating driver to the stator nest, and the winding tool shaft passing through the collet actuator between the reciprocating driver and the stator nest; a collet actuator located on a side of the mounting member opposite from the front side, the collet actuator actuating the collet to engage with and disengage from the stator; wherein the collet is rotatable relative to the mounting member, and including a nest driver connected to the collet for driving the collet in rotational movement; and an articulated arm having an end for gripping and moving the stator from a location spaced from the collet to a location in engagement with the collet, wherein the end of the articulated arm includes radially moveable fingers that are actuated radially outwardly to engage inner surfaces of the stator, the radially moveable fingers being moveable out of the stator with the articulated arm when the stator is positioned within the collet prior to a winding operation. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the end of the articulated arm positions the stator for engagement of the collet on the outer surface of the stator. 