A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing an interface for accessing home devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising the steps of: generating a device list file in an autonomous and dynamic manner, wherein the device list file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network; creating a device link page, wherein the device link page contains at least one graphical or textual representation of corresponding devices that are identified in the device list file; associating a hyper-text link with each device representation, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to a web page that is contained in the device that is associated with the device representation; and displaying the device link page on a browser based device; wherein the step of generating a device list file further includes the steps of: autonomously detecting that a home device is currently connected to the home network; associating a logical device name with the home device; and storing the logical device name in the device list file. 2. A method for providing an interface for accessing home devices that are currently connected to a home network, the method comprising the steps of: generating a device list file in an autonomous and dynamic manner, wherein the device list file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network; creating a device link page, wherein the device link page contains at least one graphical or textual representation of corresponding devices that are identified in the device list file; associating a hyper-text link with each device representation, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to a web page that is contained in the device that is associated with the device representation; and displaying the device link page on a browser based device, wherein the steps of generating the device list file further includes the steps of dynamically and autonomously updating the device list file as devices are connected to the home network. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the steps of generating the device list file further includes the steps of dynamically and autonomously updating the device list file as devices are disconnected from the home network. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the steps of generating the device list file further includes the steps of dynamically and autonomously updating the device list file as devices are connected to, and disconnected from, the home network. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the steps of generating the device list file further includes the steps of autonomously determining the network location and availability of the devices that are connected to the home network. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the steps of generating the device list file further includes the steps of dynamically and autonomously updating the device list file as devices are connected to the home network. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the steps of generating the device list file further includes the steps of dynamically and autonomously updating the device list file as devices are disconnected from the home network. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the steps of generating the device list file further includes the steps of dynamically and autonomously updating the device list file as devices are connected to, and disconnected from, the home network. 