A wireless treatment target positioning system for therapeutic radiation treatment includes a patient positioning system and a treatment target locating system. The treatment target locating system includes a room beam coordinate system and a localizing system. The room beam coordinate system includes devices for generating laser beams intersecting at a single point that is spatially coincident with an iso-center of the treatment system. The localizing system includes a movable reference object and a localizer for detecting and determining the position of the movable reference object. A method of positioning a treatment target to the iso-center of the treatment system includes a simulation process and real treatment positioning process. The simulation process includes positioning the treatment target to an iso-center of a simulation system and marking intersection points where laser beams intersect with an exterior of the patient's body. The real treatment positioning process includes determining the position of the intersection points marked on the exterior of the patient body, determining a treatment position for positioning the patient such that the treatment target is aligned with the iso-center of the real treatment system, and positioning the patient to the treatment position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for determining the location of a treatment target in a treatment area within a patient's anatomy to allow alignment of the treatment target with the iso-center of a therapeutic radiation treatment device, said system comprising: means for generating laser beams, which are directed to and intersect at an intersection point, wherein the location of said intersection point with respect to the iso-center of the therapeutic radiation treatment device is determinable; a localizing system comprising: a). a movable reference object comprising a distal tip; b). a localizer comprising at least one detector and a computer system for detecting and determining the position of said moveable reference object in a treatment coordinate system when said moveable reference object is positioned at a series of positions, wherein the position of the distal tip of the movable reference object with respect to a geometry of said reference object is loaded in the computer system of said localizer, wherein said computer system of said localizer is adapted to determine the position of the distal tip in said treatment coordinate system based on the position of said movable reference object and the position of said distal tip with respect to the geometry of said reference object; and wherein said movable reference object is adapted to be positioned at a series of predefined points on said patient body to determine the position of said series of points in said treatment coordinate system by said localizer, wherein said series of predefined points on said patient body are obtained in a pre-treatment process, said predefined points representative of intersection points of said laser beams with an exterior of the patient's body when said treatment target in said treatment area is positioned coincident with said intersection point of said laser beams, and wherein said computer system of said localizer is programmed with a software for determining the position of said treatment target in said treatment coordinate system based on the position information of said series of said predefined points on said patient body received from said localizing system. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said localizing system is an infrared localizing system. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one detector comprises at least one infrared camera. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said laser beams comprises three laser beams, and said series of predefined points on said patient body comprises three points. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein said series of predefined points on said body comprises one or two points, and wherein corrections to patient alignment is solely translational. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein said movable reference object comprises an infrared emitting probe extending along a longitudinal axis. 7. A system according to claim 5, wherein said infrared emitting probe comprises at least one light-emitting diode disposed on said infrared emitting probe. 8. A system according to claim 6, wherein said at least one light-emitting diode includes a series of light-emitting diodes aligned on said infrared emitting probe, and said localizer is adapted to determine the orientation of said probe based on the alignment of said light-emitting diodes. 9. A system according to claim 1 further comprising a positioning system for supporting and moving said patient, wherein said positioning system comprises a control system, wherein said control system of said positioning system is connected to said localizing system for receiving position information of said treatment target, wherein said control system is loaded with the position information of said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device, and wherein said control system is further programmed to control said positioning system to position said treatment target with respect to said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein said positioning system is adapted to move said patient in six degrees of freedom. 11. A system according to claim 9, wherein said positioning system is adapted to move said patient in fewer than six, but more than two, degrees of freedom. 12. A system according to claim 9, wherein the positioning system comprises: a base member; a plate member rotatably mounted on said base member; a first arm having a first end rotatably attached to said plate member, and a second end; a second arm having a first end rotatably attached to the second end of said first arm, and a second end; and a supporting means for supporting a patient thereon, wherein said supporting means is rotatably attached to said second end of said second arm. 13. A treatment target positioning system according to claim 12, wherein said base member is rotatably mounted on a plinth. 14. A therapeutic radiation treatment system includes the treatment target positioning system of claim 1, wherein said therapeutic radiation treatment system further includes a therapeutic radiation treatment device for generating therapeutic radiation. 15. A therapeutic radiation treatment system according to claim 14, wherein said therapeutic radiation treatment device comprises a gantry-based LINAC system. 16. A therapeutic radiation treatment system according to claim 14, wherein said therapeutic radiation treatment device comprises a robotic-based LINAC system. 17. A therapeutic radiation treatment system according to claim 14 further comprising a simulation system, wherein said simulation system has an iso-center which is calibrated to the iso-center of the therapeutic radiation treatment device. 18. A system according to claim 1, wherein said positioning system is programmed to periodically or continuously adjust the position of said treatment target to maintain said treatment target being aligned with said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 19. A system according to claim 1, wherein said intersection point of said laser beams is coincident with said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 20. A system according to claim 1, wherein said positioning system includes an immobilization device constructed to fit a patient's body curve for holding said patient. 21. A system according to claim 20, wherein said immobilization device is made from a moldable material. 22. A treatment target positioning system for determining the position of a treatment target in a treatment area within a patient's anatomy and aligning the treatment target in the treatment area with an iso-center of a therapeutic radiation treatment device, said treatment target positioning system comprising: means for generating laser beams, which are directed to and intersect at the iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device; a localizing system comprising: a). a movable reference object comprising a distal tip; b). a localizer comprising a computer system and at least one detector for detecting and determining the position of said moveable reference object in a treatment coordinate system when said moveable reference object is positioned at a series of positions, wherein the position of the distal tip of the movable reference object with respect to a geometry of said reference object is loaded in the computer system of said localizer, wherein said computer system of said localizer is adapted to determine the position of the distal tip in said treatment coordinate system based on the position of said movable reference object and the position of said distal tip with respect to the geometry of said reference object; and a positioning system for supporting and moving said patient, wherein said positioning system comprises a control system, which is connected to said localizing system for receiving position information of said movable reference object, wherein said movable reference object is adapted to be positioned at a series of predefined points on said patient body to determine the position of said series of points in said treatment coordinate system by said localizer, wherein said series of predefined points on said patient body are obtained in a pre-treatment process, said predefined points representative of intersection points of said laser beams with an exterior of the patient's body when said treatment target in said treatment area is positioned coincident with said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device in said pre-treatment process, and wherein said control system is programmed with trajectory information of said laser beams, and wherein said controller system is programmed to control said positioning system to align each of said series of points on said patient body to an associated laser beam. 23. A treatment target positioning system for determining the position of a treatment target in a treatment area within a patient's anatomy to allow alignment of the treatment target with the iso-center of a therapeutic radiation treatment device, said treatment target positioning system comprising: means for generating laser beams, which are directed to and intersect at an intersection point, wherein the location of said intersection point with respect to the iso-center of the therapeutic radiation treatment device is determinable; a localizing system comprising: a). a movable reference object comprising a distal tip; b). a localizer comprising a computer system and at least one detector for detecting and determining the position of said moveable reference object in a treatment coordinate system when said moveable reference object is positioned at a series of positions, wherein the position of the distal tip of the movable reference object with respect to a geometry of said reference object is loaded in the computer system of said localizer, wherein said computer system of said localizer is adapted to determine the position of the distal tip in said treatment coordinate system based on the position of said movable reference object and the position of said distal tip with respect to the geometry of said reference object; and a positioning system for supporting and moving said patient, wherein said positioning system comprises a control system, wherein said movable reference object is adapted to be positioned at a series of predefined points on said patient body to determine the position of said series of points in said treatment coordinate system by said localizer, wherein said series of predefined points on said patient body are obtained in a pre-treatment process, said predefined points representative of intersection points of said laser beams with the exterior of the patient's body when said treatment target in said treatment area is positioned coincident with said intersection point of said laser beams, wherein said computer system of said localizer is programmed with a software for determining the position of said treatment target in said treatment coordinate system based on the position information of said series of said predefined points on said patient body received from said localizing system wherein said control system of said positioning system is connected to said localizing system for receiving position information of said treatment target, wherein said control system is loaded with the position information of said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device, and wherein said control system is further programmed to control said positioning system to position said treatment target with respect to iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 24. A method of determining a position of a treatment target in a treatment area within a patient's anatomy and positioning said treatment target to an iso-center of a therapeutic radiation treatment device, said method comprising: A). determining positions of a series of markings on the patient body in a treatment coordinate system, wherein said markings on the patient body are obtained in a pre-treatment process, said markings representative of intersection points of laser beams with an exterior of the patient's body when said treatment target in said treatment area is positioned at a point, wherein the location of said point with respect to said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation system is determinable, wherein said laser beams are generated by a room beam coordinate system and are directed to said point, wherein determining comprises: sequentially positioning a distal tip of a movable reference object at said markings; and determining the position of said movable reference object by a localizer, said localizer comprising at least one detector and a computer system for detecting and determining the position of said moveable reference object in said treatment coordinate system when said moveable reference object is positioned sequentially at said markings, B. determining the position of said treatment target in said treatment coordinate system based on the positions of said series of markings on said patient body by using a computer system, comprising loading the position of the distal tip of the movable reference object with respect to a geometry of said movable reference object into the computer system of said localizer, wherein said computer system of said localizer is adapted to determine the position of the distal tip in said treatment coordinate system based on the position of said movable reference object and the position of said distal tip with respect to the geometry of said reference object; and C. positioning said treatment target to said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device by a positioning system, said positioning system having a computer system loaded with position information of said treatment target and position information of said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 25. A method according to claim 24, wherein said point whose location with respect to said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation system is determinable is coincident with said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 26. A method according to claim 24, wherein said localizer comprises an infrared localizer. 27. A method according to claim 24, wherein said at least one detector comprises at least one infrared camera. 28. A method according to claim 24, wherein said movable reference object comprises an infrared emitting probe extending along a longitudinal axis. 29. A method according to claim 28, wherein said infrared emitting probe comprises at least one light-emitting diode disposed on said infrared emitting probe. 30. A method according to claim 29, wherein said at least one light-emitting diode includes a series of light-emitting diodes aligned on said infrared emitting probe, and said localizer is adapted to determine the orientation of said probe based on the alignment of said light-emitting diodes. 31. A method according to claim 24, wherein said laser beams comprises three laser beams, and said series of predefined points on said patient body comprises three points. 32. A method according to claim 24, wherein said series of predefined points on said patient body comprises one or two points. 33. A method according to claim 24, wherein said positioning system is adapted to move said patient in six degrees of freedom. 34. A method according to claim 24, wherein said positioning system includes a supporting means molded to fit a patient's body curve. 35. A method according to claim 24, wherein the positioning system comprises: a base member; a plate member rotatably mounted on said base member; a first arm having a first end rotatably attached to said plate member, and a second end; a second arm having a first end rotatably attached to the second end of said first arm, and a second end; and a supporting means for supporting a patient thereon, wherein said supporting means is rotatably attached to said second end of said second arm. 36. A method according to claim 24, wherein said positioning system is programmed to periodically adjust the position of said treatment target to maintain said treatment target being aligned with said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 37. A method according to claim 24, wherein said method further comprises a pre-treatment process for obtaining said markings on said patient body, said pre-treatment process comprises: positioning said treatment target within said treatment area to an iso-center of a simulation system; and marking a series of intersection points where laser beams of a room beam coordinate system intersect with an exterior of the patient's body, wherein said laser beams are directed to said iso-center of said simulation system. 38. A method according to claim 37, wherein said positioning said treatment target within said treatment area to an iso-center of a simulation system comprises: obtaining near real time image containing information regarding the near real time position of said treatment target with respect to said treatment coordinate system; comparing the position of said treatment target, as shown in said near real-time image data, with the position of said iso-center of said simulation system; and generating at least one motion command signal for implementing one or more corrective motions of said positioning system, said corrective motions aligning said treatment target with said iso-center of said simulation system. 39. A method according to claim 37, wherein said iso-center of said simulation system used in said pre-treatment process is calibrated with the iso-center of the therapeutic radiation treatment device. 40. A method according to claim 37, wherein said simulation system used in said pre-treatment process and said therapeutic radiation treatment device are the same treatment device. 41. A method of determining the position of a treatment target in a treatment area within a patient's anatomy and positioning the treatment target to an iso-center of a therapeutic radiation treatment device, said method comprising a pre-treatment process and a real treatment positioning process, wherein said pre-treatment process comprises: a). positioning a treatment target within said treatment area to a point, wherein the location of said point with respect to the iso-center of the therapeutic radiation treatment device is determinable; and b). marking a series of intersection points where laser beams of a room beam coordinate system intersect with an exterior of the patient's body, wherein said laser beams are directed to said point; and wherein said real treatment positioning process comprises: c). determining the position of said intersection points marked on the exterior of the patient body with respect to the room beam coordinate system comprising: sequentially positioning a distal tip of a movable reference object at said markings; and determining the position of said movable reference object by a localizer, said localizer comprising at least one detector and a computer system for detecting and determining the position of said moveable reference object in said treatment coordinate system when said moveable reference object is positioned sequentially at said markings; loading the position of the distal tip of the movable reference object with respect to a geometry of said movable reference object into the computer system of said localizer, wherein said computer system of said localizer is adapted to determine the position of the distal tip in said treatment coordinate system based on the position of said movable reference object and the position of said distal tip with respect to the geometry of said reference object; d). determining the position of the treatment target with respect to the room beam coordinate system; and e). positioning said treatment target to said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation treatment device. 42. A method according to claim 41, wherein said simulation system used in said pre-treatment process and said therapeutic radiation treatment device used in said real treatment positioning device are the same treatment device. 43. A method according to claim 41, wherein said room beam coordinate system includes three laser beams directed to said point whose location with respect to said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation system is determinable, and said series of intersection points includes three intersection points. 44. A method according to claim 41, wherein said room beam coordinate system includes one or two laser beams directed to said point whose location with respect to said iso-center of said therapeutic radiation system is determinable, and said series of intersection points includes one or two intersection points. 45. The method of claim 24, wherein the positioning system further comprises a couch, and wherein positioning said treatment target to said isocenter of said therapeutic radiation treatment device comprises automatically positioning said treatment target using the computer system coupled with the couch on which the patient resides. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein the positioning system further comprises a robot couch assembly having the couch. 47. The method of claim 41, wherein positioning said treatment target to said isocenter of said therapeutic radiation treatment device comprises automatically positioning said treatment target using a computer system coupled with a couch on which the patient resides. 48. The method of claim 45, wherein the couch is a robot couch assembly and wherein positioning comprises control movement of the robot couch assembly in six degrees of freedom using the computer system. 49. A method of patient alignment in a radiation treatment system, comprising: determining a first patient position, during pre-treatment simulation, in a room coordinate system comprising localizing a series of intersection points where laser beams of the room beam coordinate system intersect with an exterior of the patient's body by touching the series of intersection points with an infrared emitting probe detectable by an infrared camera; computing the first patient position in a treatment coordinate system from the room coordinate system; determining a second patient position in the room coordinate system at treatment delivery, wherein the series of intersecting points comprises three points to determine translation and rotation of the second patient position; computing the second patient position in the treatment coordinate system from the room coordinate system; and automatically positioning the patient, at treatment delivery, to the first patient position based on comparing the first and second patient positions. 50. The method of claim 49 wherein determining the second patient position at treatment delivery comprises identifying the series of intersection points with the infrared emitting probe. 51. The method of claim 50, wherein, prior to determining the first patient position in the room coordinate system, the method further comprises positioning a treatment target within the patient to an iso-center of an imaging system of the radiation treatment system, wherein the laser beams are directed to the iso-center. 52. The method of claim 49, wherein the treatment delivery system comprises a robot couch assembly, and wherein automatically positioning comprises controlling movement of a robot couch assembly on which the patient resides. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein the robot couch assembly is configured to move in six degrees of freedom. 54. The method of claim 49, wherein the patient is automatically positioned to the first position at treatment delivery without the use of a fixed reference device to determine the first patient position during pre-treatment simulation in the room coordinate system. 