A control system automatically controls a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle. The work implement includes a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder. A position sensor produces respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket. A microprocessor receives the position signals, compares at least one of the boom, stick and bucket position signals to a predetermined one of a plurality of position setpoints. A pressure sensor produces respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders. The microprocessor receives the pressure signals, and compares at least one of the boom, stick and bucket pressures to a predetermined one of a plurality of pressure setpoints. An operator interface produces a material condition setting, the material condition setting being representative of a predetermined condition of the excavating soil. The logic device produces a command signal in response to the pressure and position comparisons, the command signal having a magnitude responsive to the material condition setting. An electrohydraulic system receives the command signal and controllably actuates predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle.
Claims I claim: 1. A control system for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle, the work implement includes a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, the control system comprising: position sensing means for producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; means for receiving the position signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket position signals to a predetermined one of a plurality of position setpoints; pressure sensing means for producing respective pressure signals in response to the associated hydraulic pressures associated with the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; means for receiving the pressure signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket pressures to a predetermined one of a plurality of pressure setpoints; means for producing a material condition setting, the material condition setting being representative of a predetermined condition of the excavating soil; means for producing a command signal in response to the pressure and position comparisons, the command signal having a magnitude responsive to the material condition setting; and actuating means for receiving the command signal and controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle. 2. A control system, as set forth in claim 1, including a memory means for storing a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with each hydraulic cylinder, the command signal magnitudes being represented by at least one control curve that is responsive to at least one material condition setting. 3. A control system, as set forth in claim 2, including: a swing assembly adapted to rotate the work implement; boom-down means for producing boom command signals to lower the boom; pre-dig means for producing boom, stick, and bucket command signals to position the bucket to a predetermined cutting angle; dig-stroke means for producing boom, stick, and bucket command signals to move the bucket along the ground; capture-load means for producing boom, stick, and bucket command signals capture material in the bucket; dump-load means for producing boom, stick, bucket, and swing command signals to dump the material from the bucket to a desired dump location; and return-to-dig means for producing boom, stick, and swing command signals to move the work implement from the dump location to a dig location. 4. A control system, as set forth in claim 3, wherein the memory means includes means for storing a plurality of control curves representing a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with the boom cylinder, each control curve corresponding to a predetermined material condition setting, the pre-dig means selecting a predetermined control curve in response to the material condition setting and producing a command signal having a magnitude dictated by the bucket cylinder pressure. 5. A control system, as set forth in claim 4, wherein the memory means includes means for storing a single control curve representing a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with the stick cylinder, the control curve representing the full range of the material condition settings, the pre-dig means producing a command signal having a magnitude dictated by the stick cylinder pressure. 6. A control system, as set forth in claim 5, wherein the memory means includes means for storing a plurality of control curves representing a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with the boom cylinder, each control curve corresponding to a predetermined material condition setting, the dig-stroke means selecting a predetermined control curve in response to the material condition setting and producing a command signal having a magnitude dictated by the stick cylinder pressure. 7. A control system, as set forth in claim 6, wherein the memory means includes means for storing a plurality of control curves representing a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with the bucket cylinder, each control curve corresponding to a predetermined material condition setting, the dig-stroke means selecting a predetermined control curve in response to the material condition setting and producing a command signal having a magnitude dictated by the bucket cylinder pressure. 8. A control system, as set forth in claim 1, including means for receiving the pressure signals and responsively computing a correlative force signal for each of the boom, stick and bucket hydraulic cylinders and comparing each of the correlative force signals with a plurality of predetermined force setpoints, wherein the command signal is produced in response to the force signal comparison. 9. A control system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein predetermined ones of the position set points are responsive to the material condition setting. 10. A control system, as set forth in claim 1, including means for determining the penetration of the bucket into the ground, and modifying predetermined ones of the position setpoints in response to the bucket penetration. 11. A control system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein the material condition setting means includes an operator interface. 12. A control system, as set forth in claim 11, wherein the operator interface provides for the operator to select predetermined settings representative of material hardness and material moisture. 13. A method for automatically controlling a work implement of an excavating machine through a machine work cycle, the work implement includes a boom, stick and bucket, each being controllably actuated by at least one respective hydraulic cylinder, the hydraulic cylinders containing pressurized hydraulic fluid, including the steps of: producing respective position signals in response to the respective position of the boom, stick and bucket; receiving the position signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket position signals to a predetermined one of a plurality of position setpoints; producing respective force signals in response to the force in the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders; receiving the force signals, comparing at least one of the boom, stick and bucket forces to a predetermined one of a plurality of force setpoints; producing a material condition setting, the material condition setting being representative of a predetermined condition of the excavating soil; producing a command signal in response to the force and position comparisons, the command signal having a magnitude responsive to the material condition setting; and receiving the command signal and controllably actuating predetermined ones of the hydraulic cylinders to perform the work cycle. 14. A method, as set forth in claim 13, including the step of storing a plurality of command signal magnitudes associated with each hydraulic cylinder, the command signal magnitudes being represented by at least one control curve that is responsive to at least one material condition setting. 15. A method, as set forth in claim 14, wherein the step of producing the force signal includes the step of sensing the respective pressure in the boom, stick, and bucket hydraulic cylinders. 