Novel composite orthopedic devices with modulus variations are disclosed. The device contains an extraosseous portion attached to a first intraosseous portion which is secured to a second intraosseous portion; the intraosseous portions may interface with the intramedullary canal of the human femur. The modulus varies along the length of the device, decreasing from the extraosseous portion to the second intraosseous portion. The variations in modulus are achieved by forming the device from a composite comprising filaments nonlinearly disposed about the longitudinal axes of the device and within a polymer matrix. The method of making the present orthopedic device is also disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. A load bearing orthopedic device for human implantation comprising: an extraosseous portion; a fist intraosseous portion attached thereto; and a second intraosseous portion attached to said first intraosseous portion; the orthopedic device having a length, a longitudinal axis, and modulus that varies continuously along the length therefore, and being made of composite material comprising, a plurality of filaments disposed within a polymer matrix which is compatible with said filaments, tissue and other materials with which it comes into contact with and further wherein said filaments are wound or braided in a varying angle with respect to the longitudinal axis resulting in continuous modulus variation along the entire length of the device. 2. The orthopedic device of claim 1 wherein the filaments are selected from the group consisting of carbon, graphite, glass and aramid fiber. 3. The orthopedic device of claim 1 wherein the polymer matrix is selected from the group consisting of polysulfone, polyether-ether-ketone, polyether-ketone-ketone, polyimide, epoxy and polycyanate. 4. The orthopedic device of claim 1 wherein said filaments are disposed in a helical pattern. 5. The orthopedic device of claim 1 wherein said filaments are disposed in a braided pattern. 6. The orthopedic device of claim 4 or 5 wherein the extraosseous portion and the first intraosseous portion each have a longitudinal axis, and filaments are further oriented axially along the longitudinal axes of the extraosseous portion and the first intraosseous portion. 7. An orthopedic device for human implantation comprising: an extraosseous portion; a first intraosseous portion attached thereto; and a second intraosseous portion attached to said first intraosseous portion; the orthopedic device having a length and being made of a plurality of layers of composite material said composite material comprising a plurality of filaments disposed within a polymer matrix which is compatible with said filaments, tissue and other materials with which it comes into contact with and said layers being independently arranged about extraosseous portion and the first and second portions, the first intraosseous portion, and the second intraosseous portion each having a modulus and a longitudinal axis, and each modulus decreases continuously along the entire length of the device from the modulus of the extraosseous portion to the modulus of the second intraosseous portion, and further wherein said filaments of each layer are wound or braided in a varying angle with respect to the longitudinal axis resulting in continuous modulus variation along the entire length of the device. 8. The orthopedic device of claim 7 wherein said filaments are disposed within the polymer matrix in a helical pattern or in a braided pattern. 9. The orthopedic device of claim 7 wherein the extraosseous portion and the first intraosseous portion each have a longitudinal axis, and said filaments further include tows oriented axially about the longitudinal axes of the extraosseous portion and the first intraosseous portion. 10. The orthopedic device of claim 7 useful as a human hip implant wherein said extraosseous portion is a neck adapted to engage a ball which rotatably engages a cup adapted to be attached to the pelvis, said first intraosseous portion is a proximal body, and said second intraosseous portion is a distal stem, the proximal body and the distal stem being adapted to be received within the femoral canal. 11. The orthopedic device of claim 10 wherein the neck and proximal body are comprised of a plurality of layers of said composite material wherein each layer includes filaments which are independently disposed at an angle of 5.degree.-45.degree. from the longitudinal axes thereof, and the distal stem is comprised of a plurality of layers of said composite material wherein each layer includes filaments which are independently disposed at an angle of 30.degree.-90.degree. from the longitudinal axis thereof. 12. The orthopedic device of claim 11 wherein the neck and proximal body additionally comprise a plurality of layers of said composite material wherein each layer includes filaments which are independently disposed at an angle of 0.degree.-5.degree. from the longitudinal axes thereof. 13. The orthopedic device of claim 11 wherein the distal stem, the proximal body or both comprise a core and a sheath, said sheath comprising a plurality of filaments disposed to form an interior portion shaped substantially as the exterior surface of the core and an exterior portion shaped substantially as the interior surface of the aperture within the femoral canal formed to accommodate the device. 