A system and method for positioning a tool relative to a patient's bone to facilitate the performance of a surgical bone alteration task. The system comprises a bone immobilization device for supporting the bone in a fixed position with respect to a reference structure, and a robot that includes a base fixed in position with respect to the reference structure. The bone imobilization device includes two semicircular frame pieces having a plurality of radial apertures through which bone gripping components adjustably extend in order to contact the bone. The bone gripping components include a shaft with a point inserted through a shaft bore of a serrated bone contact element. A support attaches to the frame to adjustably secure and position the frame relative to the reference structure.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A bone immobilization device for rigidly securing a bone in relationship to a reference structure, the immobilization device comprising: a frame having a plurality of radial apertures disposed therein; fixation means extending from said frame for preventing the movement of the bone relative to said frame, said fixation means including at least two coacting gripping components, each gripping component including a shaft with a pointed end for piercing the bone and a contact element having a contact surface for contacting the bone, said contact element having a shaft bore disposed therein, through which said shaft extends; and means for adjustably securing each one of said gripping components through one of said apertures such that said pointed end and said contact element may adjustably extend to and contact the bone; and a support attached to said frame for adjustably securing said frame relative to the reference structure. 2. A bone immobilization device as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of said pointed ends adapted to provide a force against the bone coaxial with a longitudinal axis of its respective shaft, each of said contact elements being positioned about its respective shaft and against the bone to provide a constraint against movement of the bone. 3. A bone immobilization device as claimed in claim 2, wherein said frame has semicircular upper and lower sections, said upper section being removable from and reattachable to said lower section. 4. A bone immobilization device as claimed in claim 3, wherein each of said contacting surfaces has a serrated contour, said serrated contour generally conforming to a surface of the bone at the point of contact. 