A method for tracking objects is disclosed. First a region containing the objects is scanned to generate a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of the region. A plurality of points in each of the images or data sets corresponds to a respective plurality of the objects. Next, respective figures of merit are determined for assigning the points to the tracks. Next, a k-dimensional cost function is defined which sums the figures of merit for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets. Next, the complexity of the cost function is reduced by Lagrangian Relaxation by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track and adding a penalty factor to the cost function when a point is assigned to more than one track. The reducing step is iteratively repeated and the resultant penalized cost function is solved. Next, an auxiliary function at a (k-1)-dimension is defined as a function of lower order penalty factors and a solution at the dimension at which the penalized cost function was solved directly. Next, a gradient of the auxiliary function is determined, a step is made in the direction of the gradient to identify a peak region of the auxiliary function and penalty factors at the peak region are determined. The penalty factors at the peak region are used to determine track assignments for the points in the images or data sets. Then one or more of the following actions are taken based on the track assignments: sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working on one of the objects.
Claims We claim: 1. Method for tracking objects, said method comprising the steps of: repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; determining in respective figures of merit for assigning said points to said tracks; defining a k-dimensional cost function which sums the figures of merit for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets; reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track and adding a penalty factor to the cost function when a point is assigned to more than one track; iteratively repeating the reducing step and directly solving a resultant penalized cost function; defining an auxiliary function at a (k-1)-dimension as a function of lower order penalty factors and a solution at said dimension at which said penalized cost function was solved directly; determining a gradient of said auxiliary function, stepping in the direction of said gradient to identify a peak region of said auxiliary function and determining penalty factors at said peak region; using said penalty factors at said peak region to assign the points to corresponding tracks; taking one or more of the following actions based on the track assignments: sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working on one of the objects. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the following steps which are performed before the step of defining said auxiliary function: defining a preliminary auxiliary function at a dimension equal or one greater than the dimension at which said penalized cost function is solved directly, said preliminary auxiliary function being a function of lower order penalty values and a solution at said dimension at which said penalized cost function was solved directly; determining a gradient of said preliminary auxiliary function, stepping in the direction of said gradient to identify a peak region of said preliminary auxiliary function and determining penalty factors at said peak region; and iteratively repeating said defining step and said gradient determining, stepping and penalty factor determining steps to define auxiliary functions at successively higher dimensions until the auxiliary function at the (k-1) dimension is determined. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 wherein each of the auxiliary functions equals a solution to the auxiliary function at the next lower dimension plus a solution to a 2-dimensional penalized cost function. 4. A method as set forth in claim 3 wherein the first said preliminary auxiliary function is defined at the dimension at which said penalized cost function is solved directly. 5. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the figure of merit determining step is performed by: extrapolating tracks for said objects; and determining the figures of merit based on distances from each of said points to the extrapolated tracks. 6. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the scanning step is performed by radar. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein each reducing step is performed by Lagrangian Relaxation. 8. A method as set forth in claim 3 wherein the penalized cost function is solved directly at the second dimension and further comprising the steps of: determining at the second dimension a function equal to minimizing of said penalized cost function and other penalized cost functions at the second dimension; determining a gradient of said function and stepping in the direction of said function to identify penalty factors corresponding to a peak region of said function; and using said penalty factors corresponding to the peak region of said function to define the preliminary auxiliary functions at a third dimension. 9. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: extrapolating said tracks corresponding to said assignments; taking said one or more of said actions based on said extrapolations. 10. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the step of solving said auxiliary function and wherein the gradient is determined at the solution of said auxiliary function. 11. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein said gradient is based on a plurality of subgradients. 12. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the cost determining, defining, reducing, generating, gradient determining, stepping, penalty factor determining, and using steps are performed by a computer. 13. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the stepping step is performed by selecting an initial step size, determining a solution to the auxiliary function one step size in the direction of said gradient from a starting point on said auxiliary function, comparing said solution to a solution at said starting point and if said solution at said one step size is larger than the solution at said starting point, increasing said step size and repeating the solution determining and comparing steps using said increased step size. 14. A method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising the following steps performed after the reducing step: identifying a subset of said points which are likely assigned to a subset of said tracks based on the respective figures of merit; and removing said points from consideration in the respective penalized cost function; and wherein the subsequent reducing steps are performed without considering said subset of points; and further comprising the step of: separately assigning said subset of points to tracks of said subset of tracks. 15. Method for tracking objects, said method comprising the steps of: repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; determining respective figures of merit for assigning said points to said tracks; defining a k-dimensional cost function which sums the figures of merit for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets; reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track and adding a penalty factor to the cost function when a point is assigned to more than one track; after the reducing step, identifying a subset of said points which should be assigned to a subset of said tracks based on the respective figures of merit; removing said points from consideration in the respective penalized cost function; separately assigning said subset of points to tracks of said subset of tracks, taking one or more of the following actions based on tracks corresponding to the assignments; sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working as one of the objects. 16. A method as set forth in claim 15 further comprising the steps of: repeating the reducing, identifying, removing and separately assigning steps using a penalized cost function which excludes said subset of points. 17. System for tracking objects, said system comprising: means for repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; means for determining respective figures of merit for assigning said points to said tracks; means for defining a k-dimensional cost function which sums the figures of merit for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets; means for reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track and adding a penalty factor to the cost function when a point is assigned to more than one track; means for iteratively repeating the reducing step and directly solving a resultant penalized cost function; means for defining an auxiliary function at a (k-1)-dimension as a function of lower order penalty factors and a solution at said dimension at which said penalized cost function was solved directly; means for determining a gradient of said auxiliary function, stepping in the direction of said gradient to identify a peak region of said auxiliary function and determining penalty factors at said peak region; means for using said penalty factors at said peak region to assign the points to corresponding tracks; means for taking one or more of the following actions based on the track assignments; sending a warming to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working on one of the objects. 18. Method for tracking objects, said method comprising the steps of: repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; defining a k-dimensional cost function for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets; reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track and introducing a penalty factor to the cost function when a point is assigned to more than one track; iteratively repeating the reducing step and solving a resultant penalized cost function; defining an auxiliary function at a (k-1)-dimension as a function of penalty factors associated with the reducing steps and a solution to said resultant penalized cost function or another penalized cost function having a similar maximum; determining a peak region of said auxiliary function and determining penalty factors at said peak region; and using said penalty factors at said peak region to assign the points to corresponding tracks. 19. A method as set forth in claim 18 wherein said auxiliary function (PSI) is defined by: ##EQU18## where ".mu." values are the penalty factors. 20. A method as set forth in claim 18 further comprising the following steps which are performed before the step of defining said auxiliary function: defining a preliminary auxiliary function at a dimension equal or one greater than the dimension at which said penalized cost function is solved, said preliminary auxiliary function being a function of penalty factors associated with the reducing steps and a solution of said resultant penalized cost function or said other penalized cost function; determining a peak region of said preliminary auxiliary function and determining penalty factors at said peak region and a solution of a corresponding penalized cost function; and iteratively repeating said defining, said peak region determining, and penalty factor and solution determining steps to define auxiliary functions at successively higher dimensions until the auxiliary function at the (k-1) dimension is determined. 21. A method as set forth in claim 20 wherein said auxiliary functions (PSI) are defined by: ##EQU19## where ".mu." values are the penalty factors, and PHI is a direct solution of one of said penalized cost functions. 22. A method as set forth in claim 18 wherein the cost function defining step is performed by: extrapolating tracks for said objects; and determining the figures of merit based on distances from each of said points to the extrapolated tracks. 23. A method as set forth in claim 18 further comprising the steps of: taking one or more of the following actions based on the track assignments: sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working on one of the objects. 24. Method for tracking objects, said method comprising the steps of: repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; defining a k-dimensional cost function for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets; reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track; identifying a subset of said points which should be assigned to a subset of said tracks based on the reduced cost function; and separately assigning said subset of points to tracks of said subset of tracks. 25. System for tracking objects, said system comprising: means for repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; means for defining a k-dimensional cost function for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets; means for reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track and introducing a penalty factor to the cost function when a point is assigned to more than one track; means for iteratively repeating the reducing step and solving a resultant penalized cost function; means for defining an auxiliary function at a (k-1)-dimension as a function of penalty factors associated with the reducing steps and a solution to said resultant penalized cost function of another penalized cost function having a similar maximum; means for determining a peak region of said auxiliary function and determining penalty factors at said peak region; and means for using said penalty factors at said peak region to assign the points to corresponding tracks. 26. A system as set forth in claim 25 further comprising: means for taking one or more of the following actions based on the track assignments; sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working on one of the objects. 27. A system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said auxiliary function (PSI) is defined by: ##EQU20## where ".mu." values are the penalty factors. 28. A system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said cost function is based on a likelihood that the points are property assigned to the respective tracks. 29. Method for tracking objects, said method comprising the steps of: repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; defining a k-dimensional cost function for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets; reducing complexity of the cost function by permitting a point to be assigned to more than one track and introducing a penalty factor to the cost function when a point is assigned to more than one track; iteratively repeating the reducing step and solving a resultant penalized cost function; and using penalty factors associated with a solution to said resultant penalized cost function or another penalized cost function having a similar maximum, defining an auxiliary function at a higher dimension which is contained within and has a similar maximum as the corresponding penalized cost function. 30. A method as set forth in claim 29 further comprising the steps of: taking one or more of the following actions based on the track assignments: sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working on one of the objects, surveiling the object. 31. A method as set forth in claim 29 wherein the cost function is based on figures of merit for assigning the points to the tracks. 32. A method as set forth in claim 29 wherein the scanning step is performed by radar. 33. A method as set forth in claim 29 wherein each reducing step is performed by Lagrangian Relaxation. 34. Method for tracking objects, said method comprising the steps of: repeatedly scanning a region containing a plurality of moving objects and generating a multiplicity of sequential images or data sets of said region, a plurality of points in each of said images or data sets corresponding to a respective plurality of said objects; determining respective figures of merit for assigning said points to said tracks; determining a penalized cost function based on figures of merit for combinations of assignments from the images or data sets and introducing a penalty factor when a point is assigned to more than one track; solving said penalized cost function at a dimension; defining an auxiliary function at a higher dimension, said auxiliary function being a less-than approximation of another penalized cost function at the same dimension, and being a function of said penalty factors and a solution to said penalized cost function or another penalized cost function having a similar maximum. 35. A method as set forth in claim 34 further comprising the steps of: determining a gradient of said auxiliary function; stepping in the direction of said gradient to identify a peak region of said auxiliary function; and solving said auxiliary function at said peak region. 36. A method as set forth in claim 34 further comprising the step of taking one or more of the following actions based on the track assignments: sending a warning to aircraft or a ground or sea facility, controlling air traffic, controlling anti-aircraft or anti-missile equipment, taking evasive action, working on one of the objects, surveiling said objects. 37. A method as set forth in claim 35 further comprising the following steps: using the solution of said auxiliary function to solve said other penalized cost function; defining another auxiliary function at a higher dimension than the first said auxiliary function, said other auxiliary function being a function of said penalty values and the solution of said other penalized cost function. 38. A method as set forth in claim 37 further comprising the steps of: determining a gradient of said other auxiliary function; stepping in the direction of said gradient to identify a peak region of said other auxiliary function; and determining penalty factors at said peak region and a solution of a corresponding penalized cost function. 39. A method as set forth in claim 37 wherein said other auxiliary function equals a solution to said first auxiliary function plus a solution to the first said penalized cost function. 40. A method as set forth in claim 34 wherein the scanning step is performed by radar. 41. A method as set forth in claim 34 wherein the figure of merit determining, penalized cost function solving and auxiliary function defining steps are performed by a computer. 42. A method as set forth in claim 35 wherein the stepping step is performed by selecting an initial step size, determining a solution to the auxiliary function one step size in the direction of said gradient from a starting point on said auxiliary function, comparing said solution to a solution at said starting point and if said solution at said one step size is larger than the solution at said starting point, increasing said step size and repeating the solution determining and comparing steps using said increased step size. 