A binary locally-initializing incremental position encoder (112) for determining the position of an object, i.e. a robot arm (102). The inventive position encoder (112) is adapted to be coupled to the object (102) and includes first, second, third and fourth gears (129, 130, 131 and 132, respectively). The gears are such that the positions thereof, representing the positions or states of the object, repeat at binary intervals. That is, the first gear (129) has a first number of teeth N.sub.1 and the second gear (130) has a second number of teeth N.sub.2. The second gear (130) is driven by the first gear (129) from a first position to a second position. The third gear (131) is mechanically coupled to and coaxial with the second gear (130). The third gear (131) has a third number of teeth N.sub.3 and is adapted for rotation in direct angular proportion to any rotation of the second gear (130). The fourth gear (132) has a fourth number of teeth N.sub.4 and is driven by the third gear (131). In a specific implementation, each set of gears includes one gear that has a binary number of teeth. The invention also provides a method for designing a position encoder which repeats after an arbitrary predetermined nonprime number of revolutions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A binary locally-initializing incremental position encoder for determining the position of an object after said object has moved from a first position to a second position, said encoder being coupled to said object and comprising: a first gear having a first number of teeth N.sub.1 ; a second gear having a second number of teeth N.sub.2, said second gear being interlockingly coupled to said first gear and driven from a first position to a second position by the movement of said object from said first position to said second position; a third gear mechanically coupled to and coaxial with said second gear, said third gear having a third number of teeth N.sub.3 and movable in one to one direct angular proportion to any movement of said second gear; and a fourth gear having a fourth number of teeth N.sub.4 and being interlockingly driven by said third gear, said first, second, third and fourth numbers of teeth being such that the angular positions of said first, second, third and fourth gears repeat after an integer power of two number of rotations; such that the ratio of the number of teeth in each pair of interlocking gears is one of 2.sup.n :2.sup.n .+-.1 and 2.sup.n :2.sup.n-1 -1 wherein n is an integer. 2. The invention of claim 1 further including first measurement means for determining the position of each gear and providing a first signal in response thereto. 3. The invention of claim 1 further including motive means for moving at least one of said gears from said first position to said second position. 4. The invention of claim 2 further including second measurement means for ascertaining the degree of movement of said object from said first position to said second position and providing a second signal in response thereto. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein said second measurement means includes an incremental encoder for tracking the position of said object. 6. A binary locally-initializing incremental position encoder for determining the position of an object after said object has moved from a first position to a second position, said encoder being coupled to said object and comprising: a first gear having a first number of teeth N.sub.1 ; a second gear having a second number of teeth N.sub.2, said second gear being interlockingly coupled to said first gear and driven from a first position to a second position by the movement of said object from said first position to said second position; a third gear mechanically coupled to and coaxial with said second gear, said third gear having a third number of teeth N.sub.3 and movable in one to one direct angular proportion to any movement of said second gear; a fourth gear having a fourth number of teeth N.sub.4 and being interlockingly driven by said third gear, said first, second, third and fourth numbers of teeth being such that the angular positions of said first, second, third and fourth gears repeat after an integer power of two number of rotations; and measurement means for determining the position of each gear and providing a signal in response thereto, the measurement means including means for detecting the angular position of said first gear, means for detecting the angular position of said second gear, and means for detecting the angular position of said fourth gear, said means for detecting the angular position of said second gear including means for detecting the angular position of said third gear, wherein each gear includes an aperture. 7. The invention of claim 6 wherein said means for determining the position of each gear includes a photosensor mounted to receive light from a light source when each gear is in a predetermined position. 8. The invention of claim 7 further including means for detecting any rotation of said first, second, third and fourth gears. 9. The invention of claim 8 further including processor means for computing an initial position of an object based on the rotation of said first, second, third and fourth gears to the point of activation of said first, second, third and fourth photosensors. 10. The invention of claim 9 wherein said first and second gears provide a first set of gears and said third and fourth gears provide a second set of gears and each set of gears includes one gear that has an integer power of two number of teeth. 11. A binary position encoder for determining the position of an object, said position encoder being coupled to said object and comprising: a first gear having a first number of teeth; a second gear coupled to said first gear and having a second number of teeth; a third gear attached to said second gear and having said first number of teeth; a fourth gear coupled to said third gear and having said second number of teeth, said first and second number of teeth being such that the angular positions of said first, second, third and fourth gears repeat after an integer power of two number of rotations; wherein said first and second gears provide a first set of gears and said third and fourth gears provide a second set of gears and each set of gears includes one gear that has an integer power of two number of teeth such that the ratio of the number of teeth in each set of interlocking gears is one of 2.sup.n :2.sup.n .+-.1 and 2.sup.n :2.sup.n-1 -1 wherein n is an integer, the gears being driven in response to movement of the object; and first measurement means for determining the position of each gear and providing a first signal in response thereto. 12. The invention of claim 11 wherein said first measurement means includes means for detecting the angular position of said first gear. 13. The invention of claim 12 wherein said first measurement means includes means for detecting the angular position of said second gear. 14. The invention of claim 13 wherein said means for detecting the angular position of said second gear includes means for detecting the angular position of said third gear. 15. The invention of claim 14 wherein said first measurement means includes means for detecting the angular position of said fourth gear. 16. The invention of claim 11 further including motive means for moving at least one of said gears from a first position to a second position. 17. The invention of claim 11 further including second measurement means for ascertaining the degree of movement of said object from a first position to a second position and providing a second signal in response thereto. 18. The invention of claim 17 wherein said second measurement means includes an incremental encoder for tracking the position of said object. 19. A binary position encoder for determining the position of an object, said position encoder being coupled to said object and comprising: a first gear having a first number of teeth; a second gear coupled to said first gear and having a second number of teeth; a third gear attached to said second gear and having said first number of teeth; a fourth gear coupled to said third gear and having said second number of teeth, said first and second number of teeth being such that the angular positions of said first, second, third and fourth gears repeat after an integer power of two number of rotations; wherein said first and second gears provide a first set of gears and said third and fourth gears provide a second set of gears and each set of gears includes one gear that has an integer power of two number of teeth, said gears move in response to movement of the object; and measurement means for determining the position of each gear and providing a signal in response thereto, the measurement means including means for detecting the angular portion of said first gear, means for detecting the angular position of said second gear, and means for detecting the angular position of said fourth gear, said means for detecting the angular position of said second gear including means for detecting the angular position of said third gear, wherein each gear includes a fiducial mark. 20. The invention of claim 19 wherein the fiducial mark is an aperture. 21. The invention of claim 20 wherein said means for detecting the angular position of said fourth gear is an incremental encoder. 22. The invention of claim 21 wherein each means for detecting the angular position of each gear includes a photosensor mounted to receive light from a light source when each gear is in a predetermined position. 23. The invention of claim 22 further including means for detecting any rotation of said first, second, third and fourth gears. 24. The invention of claim 22 further including processor means for computing an initial position of an object based on the rotation of said first, second, third and fourth gears to the point of activation of said first, second, third and fourth photosensors. 25. A method for designing an incremental encoder for determining the position of an object, said encoder being coupled to said object and comprising: a first gear having a first number of teeth N.sub.1 ; a second gear having a second number of teeth N.sub.2, said second gear being driven by said first gear from a first position to a second position; a third gear mechanically coupled to and coaxial with said second gear, said third gear having a third number of teeth N.sub.3 and movable in one to one direct angular proportion to any movement of said second gear; and a fourth gear having a fourth number of teeth N.sub.4 and being driven by said third gear, said first, second, third and fourth numbers of teeth being such that the angular positions of said first, second, third and fourth gears repeat after an arbitrary predetermined nonprime number of rotations N, said method including the steps of: factoring the number N to create a set of factors; selecting numbers N.sub.2 ' and N.sub.4 ' such that the product thereof is equal to N; selecting N.sub.2 equal to an integer multiple of N.sub.2 '; selecting N.sub.4 equal to an integer multiple of N.sub.4 '; selecting N.sub.1 =N.sub.2 -1; and selecting N.sub.3 =N.sub.4 -1; where N.sub.1, N.sub.2, N.sub.3 and N.sub.4 are the number of teeth in the first, second, third and fourth gears respectively. 