An ornament includes a hollow ornament body having an inner coating layer in which a pattern is formed, to form an ornamental indicia for the ornament. The pattern in the inner coating layer may be a pattern of openings or a pattern of discolorations. The pattern in the inner coating layer may be formed by directing a laser beam through the hollow ornament body into the inner coating layer in a predetermined pattern. The laser beam may vaporize the inner coating layer or discolor the inner coating layer without harming the body of the ornament. The laser may be a Nd:YAG marking laser. Input patterns are provided to the laser after conversion from planar to spheroidal coordinates so that a pattern may be produced in the inner coating layer without distortion. When illuminated from within, the ornament produces a unique appearance because the ornamental indicia is illuminated due to the removal or discoloration of the inner coating layer.
Claims What which is claimed: 1. An ornament comprising: a hollow spheroidal ornament body having a neck protruding therefrom said neck being narrow relative to said spheroidal ornament body; an inner coating layer on the inner surface of said hollow ornament body; and a pattern in said inner coating layer, said pattern forming an ornamental indicia for said ornament. 2. The ornament of claim 1 wherein said pattern comprises a pattern of openings in said inner coating layer. 3. The ornament of claim 1 wherein said pattern comprises a pattern of discoloration in said inner coating layer. 4. The ornament of claim 1 further comprising illuminating means within said hollow ornament body, for passing light through said pattern to illuminate said ornamental indicia. 5. The ornament of claim 1 further comprising an outer coating layer on the outer surface of said hollow body. 6. The ornament of claim 5 further comprising an outer pattern in said outer coating layer. 7. The ornament of claim 1 wherein said inner coating layer comprises a colored inner coating layer. 8. The ornament of claim 7 wherein said colored inner coating layer comprises a silver inner coating layer. 9. The ornament of claim 1 further comprising illumination means in said hollow ornament body for illuminating the ornamental indicia. 10. The ornament of claim 1 wherein said hollow body is adapted for hanging from a Christmas tree, to provide a Christmas ornament. 11. A Christmas ornament comprising: a hollow spheroidal ornament body having a neck protruding therefrom, said neck being narrow relative to said hollow spheroidal ornament body; an inner coating layer on the inner surface of said hollow spheroidal ornament body; a pattern in said inner coating layer, said pattern forming an ornamental indicia for said ornament; illuminating means within said hollow spheroidal ornament body, for passing light through said pattern in said inner coating layer to illuminate said ornamental indicia; and means, connected to said hollow spheroidal ornament body, for hanging said Christmas ornament from a Christmas tree. 12. The Christmas ornament of claim 11 further comprising an outer coating layer on the outer surface of said hollow spheroidal ornament. 13. The Christmas ornament of claim 12 further comprising an outer pattern in said outer coating layer. 14. The Christmas ornament of claim 13 wherein said outer pattern is congruent to said pattern in said inner coating layer. 