An embodiment of the present invention is a wet indexer for receiving a cassette of wafers from a previous processing station that have not been allowed to dry. The wet indexer then keeps the wafers submersed in processing solution before and during indexed transmission to later cleaning stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wet indexer, comprising: a tank for holding a processing solution and for accepting a cassette of wafers from a previous processing station and for pre-soaking said wafers in said processing solution while said wafers are in a queue waiting for transfer to a subsequent stage; wafer outlet means in a side of the tank for a non-contacting passing of individual said wafers out of the tank; and liquid jet means for motivating individual said wafers to pass from said cassette and out through the wafer outlet means. 2. The indexer of claim 1, further comprising: wafer-present sensor means for detecting individual said wafers passing through the wafer outlet means wherein the liquid jet means may be operated appropriately to motivate said individual wafers. 3. The indexer of claim 1, further comprising: cassette platform and platform elevation means for holding and indexing said cassette of wafers and for submerging said cassette of wafers in said processing solution and for lifting said cassette of wafers out of said cassette of wafers out of said processing solution. 4. The indexer of claim 3, further comprising: a cassette-present sensor for detecting whether or not said cassette of wafers is being held by the cassette platform and platform elevation means wherein operation of the cassette platform and platform elevation means may be disabled if a cassette is not present. 5. The indexer of claim 3, wherein the cassette platform and platform elevation means comprises: a lift arm; a lead screw attached to the lift arm; and a stepper motor coupled to the lead-screw for moving said cassette of wafers up and down within the tank. 6. The indexer of claim 1, wherein the wafer outlet means comprises: a non-wafer-contacting wafer guide; a manifold for floating of said wafers passing through the wafer guide with a processing solution such that the liquid jet means moves said individual wafers out through the wafer guide. 7. A wafer cleaner system including a plurality of stations, comprising: a wet indexer for receiving a cassette of wafers from a previous processing station and for keeping the wafers submersed in a tank of processing solution before and during an indexed transmission to a next station, the wet indexer including processing solution jet means for extracting said wafers from said cassette and for moving said wafers thus extracted to said next station; a first wafer brushing station for receiving said wafers from the wet indexer and for cleaning said wafers on both sides with processing solution; a second wafer brushing station for receiving wafers from the first brushing station and for cleaning said wafers on both sides with processing solution; a wafer spin-dry station for receiving said wafers from the second brushing station and including spinning means for spin-drying said wafers; and a robotic receiver transfer station for receiving said wafers from the wafer spin-dry station and for placing said wafers in a cassette. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein: the wet indexer includes cassette-present detection means for enabling a lowering said cassette into said tank of processing solution only when, a cassette is present; said processing solution jet means comprises liquid jet nozzles and wafer-present detection means to shut-off a flow of processing solution through said nozzles when a wafer is not present; and the second wafer brushing station includes an optical wafer-flat sensor to properly align said wafers for the wafer spin-dry station. 