Disclosed is a system for handling large area, in-process, circuit panel layers. The circuit panel layers are thin and flimsy, and require rigid support for certain processing steps. The system includes a peripheral frame fixture for surrounding and supporting the in process circuit panel layer, and a a loading chuck for mounting the in-process circuit panel layer in the peripheral frame fixture. The peripheral frame fixture includes a bottom plate having a central opening to expose the circuit panel layer, a top frame having a corresponding central opening to expose the opposite surface of the circuit panel layer, and a compressive apparatus, as screws, bolts, or the like, for applying a z axis compressive force to the bottom plate, the top frame, and a panel layer therebetween. Optionally, the fixture may include alignment pins or fiducials for aligning the bottom plate, a panel layer, and the top frame, and a robotic interface for a robotic arm to grasp and transfer the peripheral frame fixture. The system also includes a loading chuck for mounting the in-process circuit panel layer in the peripheral frame fixture. The loading chuck includes a peripheral edge for receiving the bottom plate of the peripheral frame fixture. This provides co-planarity of the in-process circuit panel layer, the bottom plate of the peripheral frame fixture, and the vacuum table. The vacuum table is within the area bounded by the peripheral edge of the loading chuck and the peripheral frame of the peripheral frame fixture, and is coplanar with them. The vacuum table includes slidable bearing surfaces, with vacuum apertures for drawing a vacuum to hold the panel in place, and slide actuators for moving the slidable bearing surfaces to apply x-y axis tension to a panel on the bearing surfaces.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for handling large area, in-process, circuit panel layers comprising: a. a peripheral frame fixture for surrounding the panel layer, said peripheral frame fixture comprising: i. a bottom plate having a central opening, ii. a top frame having a central opening, and iii. compressive means for applying a z axis compressive force to the bottom plate, the top frame, and a panel layer therebetween, said bottom plate and top frame applying a z-axis compressive force on the surfaces of the panel layer and x-y axis tensile forces to the panel during subsequent panel processing; and b. a loading chuck for mounting the panel layer in the peripheral frame fixture, said loading chuck comprising: i. a peripheral edge for receiving the bottom plate of the peripheral frame fixture, ii. a vacuum table within the area bounded by the peripheral edge of the loading chuck and the peripheral frame fixture, and substantially coplanar therewith, for bearing the panel layer, said vacuum table comprising: a. a plurality of slidable bearing surfaces, the bearing surfaces having vacuum apertures for drawing a vacuum to hold a panel against the bearing surface; b. slide actuators for moving the slidable bearing surfaces to apply x-y axis tension to a panel on the bearing surfaces; and c. means for applying a vacuum to the slidable bearing surfaces. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the peripheral frame fixture includes alignment means for aligning the bottom plate, a panel layer, and the top frame. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the peripheral frame fixture includes robotic interface means for allowing a robotic arm to grasp and transfer the peripheral frame fixture. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the peripheral frame fixture comprises vacuum header means for drawing a vacuum. 5. A system for handling large area, in-process, circuit panel layers comprising: a. a peripheral frame fixture for surrounding the panel layer, said peripheral frame fixture comprising: i. a bottom plate having a central opening, ii. a top frame having a central opening, iii. compressive means for applying a z axis compressive force to the bottom plate, the top frame, and a panel layer therebetween, iv. alignment means for aligning the bottom plate, a panel layer, and the top frame, and v. robotic interface means for allowing a robotic arm to grasp and transfer the peripheral frame fixture, said bottom plate and top frame applying a z-axis compressive force on the surfaces of the panel layer and x-y axis tensile forces to the panel during subsequent panel processing; and b. a loading chuck for mounting the panel layer in the peripheral frame fixture, said loading chuck comprising: i. a peripheral edge for receiving the bottom plate of the peripheral frame fixture, ii. a vacuum table within the area bounded by the peripheral edge of the loading chuck and the peripheral frame fixture, and substantially coplanar therewith, for bearing the panel layer, said vacuum table comprising: a. a plurality of slidable bearing surfaces, the bearing surfaces having vacuum apertures for drawing a vacuum to hold a panel against the bearing surface; b. vacuum header means for drawing a vacuum; c. slide actuators for moving the slidable bearing surfaces to apply x-y axis tension to a panel on the bearing surfaces; and d. means for applying a vacuum to the slidable bearing surfaces. 