A telescopic pick-and-place robotic mechanism used to retrieve and deposit magnetic tape cartridges from a remote position, configured to be mounted to a typical robotic assembly located in proximity of a storage area for computer data or other storage media. The present invention has a reduced cross-sectional area due to its telescopic nature. The pick-and-place mechanism includes a base connected to the robotic arm and a number of slider plates coupled to the base which telescopically extend and retract relative to the base in a single axis of movement to reach the remote location. The slider plates are coupled to each other by slider means for enabling each of the slider plates to translate relative to each other along the single axis of movement. Each slider plate is controlled by a crank and slider mechanism which converts a incoming rotational force to a linear force in the direction of the single axis of movement. The mechanism is driven by a servo motor which is coupled to the base and outputs the necessary rotational force. A gripper mechanism is connected to at least one of the slider plates holds and releases the cartridge translates it on and off mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A telescopic pick and place robotic apparatus, comprising: a base; a slider plate having first and second major faces; coupling means for coupling said slider plate to said base and for allowing said slider plate to telescopically extend and retract relative to said base along an axis, said axis being substantially parallel to said first and second major faces; gripper means, mounted on said slider plate, for selectively grasping and translating an object along said axis onto and off of said first major face of said slider plate, including, a first rack and pinion gear pair, said first rack gear coupled to said base and said first pinion gear coupled to said slider plate, a first pinch roller coupled to said slider plate by a first spring-loaded arm and rotatably driven by said first pinion gear, a second rack and pinion gear pair, said second rack gear coupled to said base and said second pinion gear coupled to said slider plate, and a second pinch roller coupled to said slider plate by a second spring-loaded arm and rotatably driven by said second pinion gear, wherein said first and second pinch rollers are rotated respectively by said first rack and pinion gear pair and said second rack and pinion gear pair when said slider plate is translated relative to said base along said axis; and translating means for translating said slider plate along said axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said coupling means comprises a rail and track assembly. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said translating means comprises: driver means coupled to said base for producing a rotational force; and crank and slider means for converting said rotational force to a linear force to translate said slider plate along said axis. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said crank and slider means comprises: cam means coupled to said base and driven by said driver means; a cam follower connected to said cam means; and a cam follower track in said slider plate, configured to receive said cam follower. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: control means for controlling operation of said driver means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising: position detection means for detecting a relative position of said slider plate with respect to said base and for producing a signal indicating said position. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said driver means comprises a servo motor. 8. A telescopic pick and place robotic apparatus, comprising: a base; a plurality of slider plates, each having first and second major faces; coupling means for coupling each of said slider plates to said base and for allowing said slider plates to telescopically extend and retract relative adjacent slider plates and to said base along an axis, said axis being substantially parallel to said first and second major faces; gripper means, mounted on at least one of said slider plates, for selectively grasping and translating an object along said axis onto and off at least one of said slider plates; and translating means for translating said plurality of slider plates along said axis including, driver means coupled to said base for producing a rotational force, and crank and slider means for converting said rotational force to a plurality of linear forces, each of said linear forces to translate a respective one of said plurality of slider plates along said axis, said crank and slider means having, plurality of cam means coupled to said base and driven by said driver means a plurality of cam followers connected to each of said plurality of cam means, and a plurality of cam follower tracks, each of said plurality of cam follower track in a respective one of said plurality of slider plates and configured to receive a respective one of said plurality of cam followers. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said coupling means comprises a rail and track assembly. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said gripper means comprises: a first rack and pinion gear pair, said first rack gear coupled to a first slider plate and said first pinion gear coupled to a second slider plate; a first pinch roller coupled to said second slider plate by a first spring-loaded arm and rotatably driven by said first pinion gear; a second rack and pinion gear pair, said second rack gear coupled to said first slider plate and said second pinion gear coupled to said second slider plate; and a second pinch roller coupled to said second slider plate by a second spring-loaded arm and rotatably driven by said second pinion gear; wherein said first and second pinch rollers are rotated respectively by said first rack and pinion gear pair and said second rack and pinion gear pair when said second slider plate is translated relative to said first slider plate along said axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: control means for controlling operation of said driver means. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: position detection means for detecting a relative position of said plurality of slider plates with respect to said base and for producing a signal indicating said position. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said driver means comprises a servo motor. 14. A telescopic pick and place robotic apparatus, comprising: a base; a plurality of slider plates, each having first and second major faces; a rail and track assembly configured to couple each of said plurality of slider plates to said base and for allowing said slider plates to telescopically extend and retract relative to adjacent slider plates and to said base along an axis, said axis being substantially parallel to said first and second major faces; gripper means for selectively grasping and translating an object along said axis onto and off at least one of said slider plates, said gripper means including, a first rack and pinion gear pair, said first rack gear coupled to a first slider plate and said first pinion gear coupled to a second slider plate, a first pinch roller coupled to said second slider plate by a first spring-loaded arm and rotatably driven by said first pinion gear, a second rack and pinion gear pair, said second rack gear coupled to said first slider plate and said second pinion gear coupled to said second slider plate, and a second pinch roller coupled to said second slider plate by a second spring-loaded arm and rotatably driven by said second pinion gear, wherein said first and second pinch rollers are rotated respectively by said first rack and pinion gear pair and said second rack and pinion gear pair when said second slider plate is translated relative to said first slider plate along said axis; and translating means for translating said plurality of slider plates along said axis, said translating means including, driver means coupled to said base for producing a rotational force, and crank and, slider means for converting said rotational force to a plurality of linear forces, each of said linear forces to translate a respective one of said plurality of slider plates along said axis. 