A robotic system for inserting cylinder liners into the cylinder block from an internal combustion engine includes an articulated robot arm for cycling an end effector between a dunnage unloading position and a cylinder insertion position. The end effector, which is attached to the robot arm, picks liners from dunnage and places the liners in the cylinder bores of the cylinder block. The end effector includes remotely deployable combination teeth for gripping the liners to permit removal from their dunnage and for aligning the end effector and liner into the cylinder bores to permit insertion of the liners.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic system for inserting cylinder liners into the cylinder block of an internal combustion engine, comprising: an articulated robot arm for cycling an end effector between a dunnage unloading position and a liner insertion position; and an end effector, attached to said robot arm, for picking liners from dunnage at the dunnage unloading position and for placing the liners into the cylinder bores of the cylinder block at the liner insertion position, with said end effector comprising remotely deployable combination teeth for gripping the interior of the liners to permit removal from their dunnage and for contacting the cylinder bores, so as to pilot the end effector and liners into the cylinder bores to permit insertion of the liners. 2. A robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said end effector is attached to said robot arm by a remotely controllable compliance device. 3. A robotic system according to claim 2, wherein said compliance device is in a free position when said end effector is picking liners from dunnage and when the end effector is inserting the liners into the cylinder block, with said compliance device being in a locked, noncompliant position when said robot arm is translating the end effector from the dunnage to the cylinder block. 4. A robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said end effector comprises at least one generally cylindrical body with said remotely deployable combination teeth extendable radially outwardly from the cylindrical surface of said body. 5. A robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said end effector comprises a generally cylindrical body for each of the cylinders of a single bank of said cylinder block such that a plurality of cylinder liners may be inserted into said cylinder block simultaneously. 