A high power electrical interface unit for a robotic tool changing system has a housing, a high power electrical connector in the housing for attachment to a high power electrical cable, and a replaceable high power electrical contact removably attachable to the electrical connector. The electrical contact extends into an opening in the housing and may be replaced through the opening without other disassembly of the interface unit. The contact may be threadably attachable to the connector, and the interface unit may include a member for preventing the electrical connector from rotating when the contact is threaded to the connector. The contact may include a head portion having a spheroidal or spherical contact surface, and a side surface configured for ready engagement by a hand tool such as a socket wrench. The interface unit may be removably secured to either a robot or tooling adaptor, or the interface unit may be integral to the robot or tool adaptor.
Claims What is claimed: 1. In a robotic tool changing system, a high power electrical interface unit, comprising: a housing; a high power electrical connector housed within said housing for connection to a high power cable; a replaceable high power electrical contact removably attachable to said electrical connector; and said contact being accessible at an opening in a contact face of said housing and replaceable without requiring replacement of said connector, wherein said connector is part of one of a robot adaptor or a tooling adaptor to allow power to be supplied to said tooling adapter at said contact face when said robot adaptor and said tooling adaptor are mated. 2. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1, wherein said replaceable high power electrical contact is replaceable at said opening from outside of said contact face. 3. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1, wherein said contact is threadably attachable to said connector. 4. The robotic tool changing system of claim 3, wherein said replaceable high power electrical contact comprises a threaded stem and said electrical connector comprises a threaded aperture for threadably receiving said threaded stem of said electrical contact. 5. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1, wherein said replaceable high power electrical contact is recessed into said opening of said housing. 6. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1, wherein said replaceable high power electrical contact extends beyond said opening of said housing. 7. The robotic tool changing system of claim 4, wherein said replaceable high power electrical contact further comprises a head portion at an end of said threaded stem, said head portion having a contact surface and a side surface extending from said contact surface towards said threaded stem. 8. The robotic tool changing system of claim 7, wherein said contact surface has a spherical shape. 9. The robotic tool changing system of claim 7, wherein said contact surface has a spheroidal shape. 10. The robotic tool changing system of claim 7, wherein the side surface of said head portion is configured to be engaged by a hand tool so that said high power electrical contact is easily attachable to and removable from said electrical connector with said hand tool. 11. The robotic tool changing system of claim 10, wherein said head portion has an hexagonal configuration. 12. The robotic tool changing system of claim 4, further comprising means for preventing said high power electrical connector from rotating within said housing when said replaceable high power electrical contact is threaded to said high power electrical connector. 13. The robotic tool changing system of claim 12, wherein said means for preventing said electrical connector from rotating comprises a member secured to said housing and positioned such that when said electrical connector abuts against said member, said electrical connector is prevented from rotating. 14. The robotic tool changing system of claim 13, wherein said member comprises an integrally formed wall of said housing. 15. The robotic tool changing system of claim 13, wherein said member comprises an elongated pin attached to said housing. 16. The robotic tool changing system of claim 13, wherein said member comprises a plate having a substantially rectangular body. 17. The robotic tool changing system of claim 12, wherein said means for preventing said connector from rotating comprises a dowel attached to said connector and an orifice in said housing for receiving said dowel, wherein when said dowel abuts against a wall of said orifice, said connector is prevented from rotating. 18. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1, wherein said housing comprises electrically insulating material. 19. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of high power electrical connectors housed within said housing, and a plurality of replaceable high power electrical contacts, each of said plurality of contacts being removably attachable to a corresponding one of said plurality of electrical connectors and extending into a respective opening in said housing. 20. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1 wherein the interface unit is denominated as a first interface unit, further in combination with a second interface unit for making a high power electrically conducting junction between said first and second interface units. 21. The combination of claim 20 wherein said second interface unit comprises: a second housing; a second high power electrical connector housed within said second housing for connection to a second high power cable; and a second replaceable high power electrical contact removably attachable to said second electrical connector, said second replaceable high power electrical contact extending into an opening in said second housing and being replaceable through said second housing opening without other disassembly of the second interface unit. 22. The robotic tool changing system of claim 1, wherein said robotic tool changing system comprises a robot adaptor and a tooling adaptor, and said interface unit comprises a removable module of one of said robot adaptor and said tooling adaptor. 