The robotic end-effector system comprises a mounting bracket assembly attached to a manipulator arm of a robot. A dual shaft motor is attached to the mounting bracket assembly. The motor has first and second rotatable output shafts. The first shaft is for mounting an encoder for providing position data. A mechanical drive mechanism is connected to the motor and to the mounting bracket assembly. The mechanical drive mechanism converts rotational motion of the second output shaft to translational motion. A passive compliance system is connected to the mechanical drive mechanism. A load sensor system is supported by the compliance system for providing force data. An end-effector end piece is connected to the load sensor system. A closed loop computer control system is in communication with the motor for processing the position data and the force data for providing micro positioning of the end-effector end piece and for providing an active system compliance, thereby achieving the desired end-effector function.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A robotic end-effector system, comprising: a) a mounting bracket assembly attached to a manipulator arm of a robot; b) a dual shaft motor attached to said mounting bracket assembly, said motor having first and second rotatable output shafts, said first shaft for mounting an encoder, for providing position data; c) a mechanical drive mechanism connected to said motor and to said mounting bracket assembly, said mechanical drive mechanism for converting rotational motion of said second output shaft to translational motion; d) a passive compliance system connected to said mechanical drive mechanism; e) a load sensor system supported by said compliance system for providing force data; f) an end-effector end piece connected to said load sensor system; and, g) a closed loop computer control system in communication with said motor for processing said position data and said force data for providing micro-positioning of said end-effector end piece and for providing an active system compliance, thereby achieving the desired end-effector function. 2. The robotic end-effector system of claim 1, wherein said passive compliance system comprises: a) a lower compliance plate assembly, comprising: i) a lower compliance plate connected to said mechanical drive mechanism; and, ii) a cylindrical can connected to a lower surface of said lower compliance plate; b) an upper compliance plate assembly comprising: i) an upper compliance plate having a centrally located threaded vertical shaft extending from a lower surface thereof, an upper surface of said upper compliance plate being secured to said load sensor system; ii) an adjustment nut threaded on said vertical shaft for securing said upper compliance plate and for setting a compliance system initial pre-load; and, iii) an extension shaft connected to a lower end of said vertical shaft for maintaining vertical alignment of said upper compliance plate; c) spring means for providing compliance between said lower compliance plate assembly and said upper compliance plate assembly; d) a lower bearing assembly positioned in a central opening in a lower end of said cylindrical can in cooperative engagement witch a lower end of said extension shaft; and, e) an upper bearing assembly positioned in a central opening in said lower compliance plate in cooperative engagement with said vertical shaft, said lower and upper bearing assemblies providing vertical translation of said upper compliance plate while limiting off-axis rotation of said upper compliance plate. 3. The robotic end-effector of claim 1, wherein said mechanical drive mechanism comprises: a bar linkage assembly connected to said motor and to said mounting bracket assembly, said bar linkage assembly, comprising: a) a crank attached to said second output shaft; b) a drag link having a first end connected to said crank and a second end connected to said passive compliance system; and, c) a plurality of hinges, each hinge having a first end connected to said mounting bracket assembly and a second end connected to said passive compliance system. 4. The robotic end-effector system of claim 3, wherein said plurality of hinges comprises two hinges which cooperate with said crank and drag link to form a 6-bar linkage assembly. 5. The robotic end-effector system of claim 1 wherein said mechanical drive mechanism comprises: a rack and pinion assembly connected to said motor and to said mounting bracket assembly, said rack and pinion assembly, comprising: a) a gear head attached to said second output shaft; b) a rack having a first end in cooperative engagement with said gear head and a second end connected to said passive compliance system; and, c) a linear bearing/track/guide wheel assembly having a first end connected to said mounting bracket assembly and a second end connected to said passive compliance system. 6. The robotic end-effector system of claim 1, wherein said load sensor system comprises: a three-axis load sensor connected to said end effector end piece; and, a single axis redundant load sensor positioned between said three-axis load sensor and said passive compliance system. 7. The robotic end-effector system of claim 1, wherein said motor comprises a d.c. brushless stepper motor. 8. The robotic end-effector system of claim 1, wherein said mounting bracket assembly comprises: a mounting bracket element attached to said manipulator arm of said robot; and a hinge support mounted on said mounting bracket element for supporting said mechanical drive mechanism. 9. The robotic end-effector system of claim 1, wherein said end-effector end piece comprises: an adapter plate connected to said load sensor system; and, a suction cup assembly mounted on said adapter plate, including a needle for delivering fluid. 10. The robotic end-effector system of claim 1, wherein said closed-loop computer control system comprises: a) a closed-loop computer control element for commanding said motor said micro-positioning of said end-effector end piece and for providing said active system compliance; and, b) a motor drive for amplifying the commands from said computer control element and communicating these commands to said motor. 11. A robotic end-effector system, comprising: a) a mounting bracket assembly attached to a manipulator arm of a robot; b) a dual shaft motor attached to said mounting bracket assembly, said motor having first and second rotatable output shafts, said first shaft for mounting an encoder, for providing position data; c) a mechanical drive mechanism comprising a bar linkage assembly connected to said motor and to said mounting bracket assembly, said bar linkage assembly, comprising: i) a crank attached to said second output shaft; ii) a drag link connected to said crank; and, iii) a plurality of hinges connected to said mounting bracket assembly; d) a passive compliance system connected to ends of said plurality of hinges and to an end of said drag link; e) a load sensor system supported by said compliance system for providing force data; f) an end-effector end piece connected to said load sensor system; and g) a closed loop computer control system in communication with said motor for processing said position data and said force data for providing micro-positioning of said end-effector end piece and for providing an active system compliance, thereby achieving the desired end-effector function. 12. A robotic end-effector system, comprising: a) a mounting bracket assembly attached to a manipulator arm of a robot; b) a dual shaft motor attached to said mounting bracket assembly, said motor having first and second rotatable output shafts, said first shaft for mounting an encoder, for providing position data; c) a mechanical drive mechanism comprising a rack and pinion assembly connected to said motor and to said mounting bracket assembly, said rack and pinion assembly, comprising: i) a gear head attached to said second output shaft; ii) a rack in cooperative engagement with said gear head; and, iii) a linear bearing/track/guide wheel assembly in cooperative engagement with said mounting bracket assembly; d) a passive compliance system connected to said ends of said rack and to an end of said linear bearing/track/guide wheel assembly; e) a load sensor system supported by said compliance system for providing force data; f) an end-effector end piece connected to said load sensor system; and g) a closed loop computer control system in communication with said motor for processing said position data and said force data for providing micro-positioning of said end-effector end piece and for providing an active system compliance, thereby achieving the desired end-effector function. 13. A robotic end-effector for use with a robotic end-effector system of the type utilizing a closed loop computer control system which processes position and force data from said robotic end-effector for providing micro-positioning of an end-effector end piece and an active system compliance thereof, said robotic end-effector, comprising: a) a mounting bracket assembly attached to a manipulator arm of a robot; b) a dual shaft motor attached to said mounting bracket assembly, said motor having first and second rotatable output shafts, said first shaft for mounting an encoder, for providing position data; c) a mechanical drive mechanism connected to said motor and to said mounting bracket assembly, said mechanical drive mechanism for converting rotational motion of said second output shaft to translational motion; d) a passive compliance system connected to said mechanical drive mechanism; e) a load sensor system supported by said compliance system for providing force data; and, f) an end-effector end piece connected to said load sensor system for providing the desired end-effector function. 14. A robotic end-effector system for the automated re-waterproofing of spacecraft thermal protection systems, comprising: a) a mounting bracket assembly attached to a manipulator arm of a robot; b) a dual shaft motor attached to said mounting bracket assembly, said motor having first and second rotatable output shafts, said first shaft for mounting an encoder, for providing position data; c) a mechanical drive mechanism connected to said motor and to said mounting bracket assembly, said mechanical drive mechanism for converting rotational motion of said second output shaft to translational motion; d) a passive compliance system connected to said mechanical drive mechanism; e) a load sensor system supported by said compliance system for providing force data; f) an end-effector end piece connected to said load sensor system, said end-effector end piece comprising: i) an adapter plate connected to said load sensor system; and, ii) a suction cup assembly mounted on said adapter plate, said suction cup assembly comprising: a dual port suction cup element; a needle mounted to said suction cup element; and, a flexible nozzle attached to said needle; and, g) a closed loop computer control system in communication with said motor for processing said position data and said force data for providing micro-positioning of said end-effector end piece and for providing an active system compliance, thereby achieving the desired end-effector function. 