A method and apparatus for finding wafer index marks and centers. A wafer having a flat or notch along its edge is placed on a rotatable platform so that a portion of the wafer's edge is positioned within a sensor assembly. The wafer is rotated, and the sensor reads the distance from the center of rotation to the edge of the wafer. This distance is measured at several angles of the wafer and the data is stored in a digital computer as a series of datapoints including an angle and a distance. A computer-implemented process calculates various geometries concerning the wafer including the location of the index mark and the center of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for finding an index mark on a wafer edge comprising steps of: (a) positioning a wafer having an index mark along an edge thereof on a rotatable platform; (b) rotating the platform and the wafer to a known angular position; (c) measuring a distance at said known angular position between an edge point of said wafer and a reference point to develop a datapoint comprising an angle of said known angular position and said distance; (d) repeating steps (b) and (c) to develop a series of datapoints; and (e) calculating a derivative of said series of datapoints; (f) finding a deviation in said derivative which corresponds to said index mark and performing deviation analysis on datapoints in said deviation to find an angular position of said index mark, wherein said angular position is a center of said index mark, and wherein said step of performing said deviation analysis includes calculating a least square line fit between maximum and minimum points of said deviation of said derivative; and (g) orienting and removing said wafer from said rotatable platform without translating said platform. 2. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step of positioning a wafer on a rotatable platform is accomplished using robotic means. 3. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step (b) is accomplished with a stepper motor. 4. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step (c) is accomplished with an electromagnetic sensor. 5. A method as recited in claim 4 wherein said electromagnetic sensor comprises an emitter and detector of electromagnetic radiation disposed on opposing sides of said wafer proximate said edge point. 6. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step (f) is accomplished by a computer-implemented process. 7. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said index mark is a flat provided along said edge of said wafer. 8. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said index mark is a notch provided along said edge of said wafer. 9. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step (f) includes calculating new points which are a predetermined percentage of said maximum and minimum points of said deviation, and treating said new points as maximum and minimum points of said deviation. 10. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step (g) includes rotating said wafer so that said wafer is positioned at a desired angular position, and picking up said wafer at said desired angular position. 11. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein said step (g) includes picking up said wafer by referencing and storing said angular position of said index mark. 12. A wafer index mark and center finder comprising: a turntable operative to support and rotate a wafer around a center of rotation; a sensor device positioned such that an edge point of said wafer positioned on said turntable can be sensed by said sensor device, said sensor device being operative to measure a distance from said edge of said wafer to a known reference point; means for storing a plurality of datapoints, each of said plurality of datapoints including said measured distance and an angle of rotation at which said distance was measured, said plurality of datapoints being used to calculate a center of said wafer; means for calculating a derivative of said plurality of datapoints, where said derivative is used to find a position of an index mark of said wafer by finding a deviation in said derivative and performing deviation analysis on said derivative; and means for orienting said wafer and removing said wafer from said turntable without translating said turntable. 13. A wafer index mark and center finder as recited in claim 12 wherein said reference point is said center of rotation. 14. A wafer index mark and center finder as recited in claim 13 wherein said sensor device comprises an emitter and detector of electromagnetic radiation disposed on opposing sides proximate said edge point. 15. A wafer index mark and center finder as recited in claim 14 further comprising: a motor coupled to said turntable for causing said turntable to rotate; and a controller coupled to said motor and to said sensor device. 16. A wafer index mark and center finder as recited in claim 15 wherein said controller is a digital computer. 17. A wafer index mark and center finder as recited in claim 16 wherein said digital computer is operative to obtain said plurality of datapoints comprising said angle and said distance from said edge of said wafer to a known reference point. 18. A method for finding a center point of a wafer comprising steps of: measuring a distance between a plurality of edge points of said wafer and a reference point to develop a plurality of datapoints comprising an angle and a distance; determining a first set of datapoints of said plurality of datapoints which describe all index marks positioned on the edge of said wafer by calculating a derivative of said datapoints; and calculating said center point of said wafer using a second set of datapoints of said plurality of datapoints which do not describe said index marks. 19. A method as recited in claim 18 wherein said step of measuring a distance is accomplished by providing a relative rotation between said wafer and a sensor device. 20. A method for finding an index mark on a wafer edge comprising steps of: (a) positioning a wafer having an index mark along an edge thereof on a rotatable platform; (b) rotating the platform and the wafer to a known angular position; (c) measuring a distance at said known angular position between an edge point of said wafer and a reference point to develop a datapoint comprising an angle of said known angular position and said distance; (d) repeating steps (b) and (c) to develop a series of datapoints; and (e) calculating a derivative of said series of datapoints; (f) finding a deviation in said derivative which corresponds to said index mark and performing deviation analysis on datapoints in said deviation to find an angular position of said index mark, wherein said step of performing deviation analysis includes determining if said index mark in said wafer is a flat or a notch, wherein said index mark is determined to be a notch when said datapoints in said deviation are under a threshold percentage of said plurality of datapoints; and (g) orienting and removing said wafer from said rotatable platform without translating said platform. 