An automated exchangeable parts feeding system which permits rapid exchange of parts presentation devices so that different size and shape parts can be handled on the parts feeding system. The automated exchangeable parts feeding system includes a parts presentation device having a tool exchange unit attached thereto, and a base exchange unit. The exchange units are mutually adapted to be coupled and decoupled to and from one another. At least one of the exchange units is controllably operable for coupling and decoupling. A robot arm or a pick and place device grasps and places the presentation device on the base exchange unit. The robot arm or pick and place device also functions to grasp and remove the presentation device from the base exchange unit. A control source coordinates the operation of at least one of the exchange units and the robot or pick and place device. The automated exchangeable parts feeding system further includes an optical detector, e.g., a fiberoptic sensor, for detecting the presence or absence of a part at a predefined location or the presentation device. The optical detector comprises at least one optical pathway section positioned and configured on each exchange unit so as to be optically aligned when the exchange units are coupled.
Claims What is claimed: 1. In a parts feeding system, the combination comprising: a base exchange unit; a parts presentation device having a tool exchange unit attached thereto; said exchange units being mutually adapted to be coupled and decoupled to and from one another and at least one of the units being controllably operable for such coupling and decoupling; controllable transfer means separate from the base exchange unit for (1) grasping and placing the presentation device on the base exchange unit so that the exchange units are positioned for coupling and (2) grasping and removing the presentation device from the base exchange unit when the units are decoupled; and control means for coordinating the operation of the at least one exchange unit and the transfer means so as to provide for placement and coupling of the presentation device to the base exchange unit and for decoupling and removal of the presentation device. 2. The combination of claim 1, wherein the controllable transfer means comprises a robot and a robot arm. 3. The combination of claim 1, wherein the controllable transfer means comprises a pick and place device. 4. The combination of claim 1 further comprising means associated with the presentation device for detecting the presence of a part at a predefined location on said presentation device and for generating a signal when a part is so detected. 5. The combination of claim 4 wherein the transfer means is adapted to remove parts from the predefined location and place them at another location and the detecting and generating means is connected to said control means for controlling the remove and place operation of the transfer means. 6. The combination of claim 4, wherein said detecting means comprises an optical detector. 7. The combination of claim 6, wherein said optical detector comprises at least one optical pathway section positioned and configured on each exchange unit so as to be optically aligned when the exchange units are coupled. 8. The combination of claim 6 wherein the optical detector is comprised of: a first fiberoptic cable segment having one end exposed to a light source and the other end mounted on the base exchange unit; a second fiberoptic cable segment having one end mounted on the tool exchange unit and the other end mounted on the presentation device adjacent to the predefined location; and the mounting of the cable segments on the exchange units being such that the segments are optically aligned with one another when the exchange units are coupled. 9. The combination of claim 8 wherein the cable segments are detachably mounted to the exchange units. 