A surface of a 3-D object is digitized automatically and stored in a memory. Based on the signal representation of the 3-D object areas of the surface are defined for color and boundaries. Coatings application paths are defined within each area and various parameters for applying coatings for each point in each path are also defined including spray pattern, amount of coatings to be applied, speed of application along the path, among others; for each area, the points of the selected path are correlated with the angle of attack, spray pattern, amount of coatings and speed. A set of programmed instructions are compiled for execution in a general purpose computer. An assembly line of objects to be painted may then be set up and the retrieved instructions executed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A precision coating apparatus, comprising: an articulated robot arm having a coating applicator mounted thereon, responsive to an arm control signal, for applying a coating to a three-dimensional surface of an object along a coating application path on the three-dimensional surface of the object at various applicator positions and angles with respect to a normal to the three-dimensional surface of the object dictated by the arm control signal; a coating supply connected to the coating applicator, wherein the coating applicator is responsive to a coating supply control signal, for providing the coating in various controlled amounts to the surface of the object; and a controller, responsive to a series of stored instructions, for providing the arm control signal and the coating supply control signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the stored instructions provide the coating supply control signal to control the coating provided in said amount controlled by pulse width or pulse position modulation. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a conveyor, responsive to a conveyor control signal, for conveying a plurality of objects past the articulated arm for being coated by the coating applicator and wherein said controller is responsive to said series of stored instructions for providing said conveyor control signal. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a plurality of articulated robot arms having separate, differently colored coating supplies and having separate coating applicators mounted thereon; each robot arm and associated coating applicator responsive to separate coating supply and arm control signals from the controller which has separate stored instructions for each articulated robot arm and coating applicator, each arm and applicator for applying a coating to the object along different coating application paths within different delineated areas of the three-dimensional surface of the object at various positions and angles with respect to the three-dimensional surface of the object dictated by the corresponding coating supply and arm control signals and wherein the controller provides the conveyor control signal for conveying the objects past each articulated arm and associated coating applicator. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller provides a pattern control signal and wherein the coating applicator is responsive to the pattern control signal, for controlling the magnitude of a solid angle of coating applied to the object. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller provides a speed control signal and wherein the robot arm is responsive thereto for controlling the speed of the applying of coating at the various positions. 7. Apparatus for using a signal representation of a surface of a three-dimensional object, comprising: means responsive to the signal representation of the three-dimensional object for selecting a plurality of areas of the surface for application of a corresponding plurality of differently colored coatings and for providing area delineating signals indicative thereof; and means, responsive to the area delineating signals, for selecting, for each of the plurality of areas, a coating application path of points along the surface and for selecting a corresponding selected spray pattern, coating amount and application angle from a normal to the surface, for each of the points along the surface and for providing an arm control signal and an object control signal for each such point. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising: means responsive to the object control signal for orienting the object with respect to a coatings applicator; means responsive to the arm control signal for orienting the coatings applicator with respect to the object for applying the corresponding colored coatings at each point of the coatings application path at the corresponding selected angle from the normal to the surface at said each point and with the corresponding selected spray pattern and coatings amount. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the means responsive to the arm control signal controls the speed of the coatings applicator along the coatings application path. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the arm control signal controls the coatings amount by pulse modulation. 