An impact absorber for a legged mobile robot having a body and two legs each connected to the body for absorbing impact arising when the robot collides with pipes or other objects in its walking environment so as to protect both the robot and the object. In a first embodiment, the impact absorber comprises a balloon disposed around the body and filled with air. When the balloon comes into contact with the object, it is deflated so as to absorb impact arising from the contact. In a second embodiment, the impact absorber comprises a cylinder fixed to the robot leg and a piston slidably disposed in the cylinder so as to define a chamber filled with an oil. A flat member is fixed to the rod of the piston and when it comes into contact with the object, the piston is thrust into the cylinder so as to absorb the impact. The impact absorber may be a resilient material coating on the robot to cushion the impact when the robot comes into contact with the object, or it may include air bags.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot comprising: a body; legs attached to the body; and an impact absorber on the robot having a member displaceable from an initial position when a force other than a ground reaction force acts on the robot, to absorb impact. 2. A robot according to claim 1 wherein the member comprises an inflatable member filled with a fluid; and further comprising means for deflating the inflatable member when it comes into contact with a foreign object so as to absorb impact arising from the contact. 3. A robot according to claim 2, wherein the means for deflating is a check valve provided for relieving the fluid from the balloon. 4. A robot according to claim 3, wherein the check valve comprises: a hollow valve body having an inlet communicated with the interior of the balloon and an outlet communicated with the exterior of the balloon; a plate disposed in the hollow valve body; and a spring urging the plate at a first position in which the plate is placed between the inlet and outlet of the hollow valve body, whereby, when the balloon comes into contact with the foreign object, the plate is displaced to a second position by the fluid to deflate the balloon so as to absorb impact arising from the contact. 5. A robot according to claim 2, wherein the robot has a projecting portion and the impact absorber is disposed on the projecting portion of the robot. 6. A robot according to claim 1, wherein the impact absorber is disposed on the body. 7. A robot according to claim 6, wherein the impact absorber is doughnut-shaped and is disposed around the body. 8. A mobile robot comprising: a body; at least two legs attached to the body; and a piston slidably disposed in the cylinder the piston and cylinder forming a first chamber at a first end of the cylinder a fluid filled in the chamber; and a cover attached to the piston. 9. A robot according to claim 1, further including: means for causing the member to be returned toward the initial position. 10. A robot according to claim 8 further comprising a second chamber formed by the cylinder and the piston, at a second end of the cylinder, with the second chamber separated from the first chamber by the piston; and a passageway through the piston connecting the first chamber and the second chamber 11. A robot according to claim 10, further including: a spring disposed in the first chamber urging the piston toward the second end of the cylinder. 12. A robot according to claim 8, wherein the impact absorber is disposed on at least one of the legs. 13. A robot according to claim 1, wherein the impact absorber comprises a resilient member. 14. A robot according to claim 13, wherein the resilient member comprises hard urethane foam. 15. A robot according to claim 13, wherein the member covers a wire carrying a current for a robot component. 16. A robot according to claim 1, wherein the impact absorber is disposed on the legs of the robot. 17. A robot according to claim 13, further comprising a heat vent extending through the resilient member. 18. A mobile robot comprising: a body; legs attached to the body; an impact absorber including at least one air bag on the robot; first means for detecting an unstable condition of the robot; and second means for inflating the at least one air bag when the unstable condition is detected. 19. A robot according to claim 18, wherein said first means detects an unstable condition of the robot from an inclination of the robot. 20. A robot according to claim 19, wherein said second means inflates the at least one air bag when the robot's inclination is found to exceed a reference value. 21. A robot according to claim 18, wherein the impact absorber is disposed on the robot body. 22. A robot according to claim 21, wherein a plurality of air bags are provided around the robot body. 23. A legged mobile robot having an impact absorber, comprising: an inflatable member on the robot filled with a fluid; and means for deflating the inflatable member when it comes into contact with an object, to absorb impact arising from the contact. 24. A mobile robot, comprising: a body; a plurality of legs attached to the body; an air bag on the body; detecting means for detecting an unstable condition of the robot; and inflating means for inflating the air bag when an unstable condition is detected. 25. The mobile robot according to claim 24 further comprising an air bag on at least one of the plurality of legs. 