The invention provides a method and apparatus for picking a separated semiconductor die 128 from a wafer and placing it on a die attach pad 144 for bonding thereto. In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus comprises a die collet having a body 124 with a proximal end 123 and a distal end 125; at least one pair of spaced-apart walls 136 extending distally from the distal end of the body and having opposing faces 181 defining an aperture 126, the faces of the walls being sloped such that a distal portion of the aperture is wider than the die and a proximal portion of the aperture is narrower than the die; a recess 152 on the faces of the walls extending substantially the length of the die, the recess having a distally-facing surface 154 for contacting at least a portion of the top side 138 of the die; and means for holding the die in the aperture, usually including a vacuum port 128. The method comprises providing a collet like the aforementioned; positioning the aperture 126 over a die 120; exerting a vacuum pressure through the vacuum port 128 to retain the die in the aperture such that a portion of the top side contacts the distally-facing surface 154 of the recess 152; positioning the die over the pad 144 such that the bottom side of the die is parallel to the pad; and discontinuing the vacuum pressure to release the die from the aperture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of placing a semiconductor device on an attachment surface for bonding thereto, the device having a bottom side for bonding to the attachment surface and a top side opposite the bottom side, the method comprising the steps of: providing a collet having at least one pair of spaced-apart walls extending in a distal direction, the walls having opposing sloped faces defining an aperture widest at its distal end, a recess disposed on each of said faces extending the length of the device and having a distally-facing surface, and a vacuum port disposed between the walls; positioning the aperture over a device; exerting a vacuum pressure through the vacuum port to retain the device in the aperture, a portion of said top side of the device contacting said distally-facing surface of said recess; positioning the device over the attachment surface such that the bottom side of the device is substantially parallel to the attachment surface; and discontinuing said vacuum pressure to release the device from the aperture. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising a step of providing bonding material on the attachment surface before the step of positioning the device over the attachment surface, the step of positioning the device over the attachment surface bringing the device into contact with the bonding material. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising, after the step of positioning the device over the attachment surface, a step of moving the collet with the device retained therein over the attachment surface in a motion parallel to the attachment surface, the bonding material being substantially liquified and contacting the device during said movement. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of moving comprises a circular motion over the attachment surface. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of moving comprises a linear back-and-forth motion over the attachment surface. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the device is substantially parallel to the attachment surface after the step of discontinuing said vacuum pressure. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said semiconductor device comprises a single die. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said semiconductor device comprises a subassembly, the subassembly including at least one semiconductor die and at least one additional device selected from the group consisting of semiconductor dies and substrates. 