A method for controlling the flow of semiconductor wafers within a semiconductor wafer processing facility. This method includes a wafer storage and preparation area (10) and a wafer metrology and etch area (12), both of which are monitored and/or controlled by a master controller (14). The wafer storage and preparation area (10) is typically kept at a class 10 clean room level and is comprised of a wafer storage area (16) and a wafer preparation area (18). The wafer metrology and etch area (12) is typically kept at a class 1000 clean room level and is comprised of an I/O cassette module (22), a wafer pre-aligner (24), a wafer router (26), a wafer metrology instrument (28), and a wafer etching instrument (30). The semiconductor wafers are transported, either manually or automatically, between the wafer storage area (16) and the wafer preparation area (18), as well as between the wafer storage and preparation area (10) and the wafer metrology and etch area (12), within wafer storage cassettes ( 20). The semiconductor wafers are individually transported between the I/O cassette module (22), the wafer pre-aligner (24), the wafer metrology instrument (28), and the wafer etching instrument (30) by the wafer router (26).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling the flow of semiconductor wafers through a semiconductor wafer processing facility, said method comprising the steps of: storing a plurality of semiconductor wafers in an identifiable manner in a cassette module; measuring material layer thicknesses in said plurality of semiconductor wafers with a wafer metrology instrument; removing material from said plurality of semiconductor wafers with a wafer etching instrument so as to achieve a desired material layer thickness as measured by said wafer metrology instrument; routing said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument; and controlling the flow of said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument by controlling and networking the operations of said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, said wafer etching instrument, and said wafer routing means to achieve said desired material layer thickness in each of said plurality of semiconductor wafers in an efficient and organized manner. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of storing said plurality of semiconductor wafers in a cassette before and after processing. 3. The method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of cleaning and inspecting said plurality of semiconductor wafers before and after processing. 4. The method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: predicting a material layer thickness of each one of said plurality of semiconductor wafers; remeasuring, subsequent to said material removal step, said material layer thickness of each one of said plurality of semiconductor wafers; comparing said predicted material thickness with said remeasured material layer thickness for each of said plurality of semiconductor wafers; and adjusting said wafer etching instrument based upon said comparison of said predicted and said remeasured material thicknesses. 5. An apparatus for controlling the flow of semiconductor wafers through a semiconductor wafer processing facility, said apparatus comprising: a cassette module for storing a plurality of semiconductor wafers in an identifiable manner; a wafer metrology instrument for measuring material layer thicknesses in said plurality of semiconductor wafers; a wafer etching instrument for removing material from said plurality of semiconductor wafers to achieve a desired material layer thickness as measured by said wafer metrology instrument: means for routing said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument; and a master controller for controlling the flow of said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument by controlling and networking the operations of said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, said wafer etching instrument, and said wafer routing means to achieve said desired material layer thickness in each of said plurality of semiconductor wafers in an efficient and organized manner. 6. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, further comprising an alignment mechanism for orienting said plurality of semiconductor wafers into a position that allows for proper acceptance by said wafer metrology instrument and said wafer etching instrument. 7. The apparatus as defined in claim 6, further comprising registration means for properly registering said plurality of semiconductor wafers to said wafer metrology instrument and said wafer etching instrument. 8. The apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, said wafer etching instrument, and said wafer routing means form a gastight enclosure that is maintained at a soft vacuum level. 9. The apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said cassette module is comprised of an accessible gastight cavity that is capable of storing a cassette holding said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 10. The apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure, and wherein said accessible gastight cavity may be independently vented up and pumped down to said soft vacuum level. 11. The apparatus as defined in claim 9, wherein said cassette module is provided with a mechanism for moving said cassette so as to provide said wafer routing means with access to all of said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 12. The apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein said mechanism is controlled by said master controller. 13. The apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said wafer metrology instrument is comprised of an accessible gastight cavity and instrumentality for measuring the thickness of the outer material layers of said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 14. The apparatus as defined in claim 13, wherein said master controller controls the operation of said wafer metrology instrument and records said outer layer thickness measurements for use by said wafer etching instrument. 15. The apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure. 16. The apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said wafer etching instrument is comprised of an accessible gastight cavity containing instrumentality for removing material from the outer layers of said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 17. The apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein said master controller controls the operation of said wafer etching instrument. 18. The apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure. 19. The apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said wafer routing means is comprised of an accessible gastight cavity containing instrumentality for transporting said plurality of semiconductor wafers between said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument. 20. The apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein said instrumentality is comprised of a robotic arm centrally located between said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, and said wafer etching instrument. 21. The apparatus as defined in claim 20, wherein said master controller controls the operation of said robotic arm. 22. The apparatus as defined in claim 21, wherein said accessible gastight cavity may be independently isolated from said gastight enclosure. 23. The apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein said master controller is comprised of electronic computing and storage means for electronically controlling and networking the operations of said cassette module, said wafer metrology instrument, said wafer etching instrument, and said wafer routing means. 24. The apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said master controller stores said material layer thickness measurements taken by said wafer metrology instrument and supplies them to said wafer etching instrument. 25. The apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said master controller performs fault isolation and other diagnostics for said semiconductor wafer processing facility. 26. The apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said master controller stores the processing records on said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 27. The apparatus as defined in claim 23, wherein said master controller records the processing status on said plurality of semiconductor wafers. 28. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, further comprising a wafer storage area for storing a cassette of said plurality of semiconductor wafers before and after processing. 29. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, further comprising a wafer preparation area for cleaning and inspecting said plurality of semiconductor wafers before and after processing. 