A method and apparatus for moving a member provides parameters related to a given destination position of the member and corresponding to a switch time, a final time, an acceleration amplitude, and a deceleration amplitude. These parameters are used to specify a piecewise continuous function of time as an input signal. The input signal feeds a motor to move the member. The final time, switch time, acceleration amplitude, and deceleration amplitude are specified by iteratively providing minimal values for the switch time and final time while providing maximum acceptable values for the acceleration amplitude and deceleration amplitude for each possible given change in a characteristic of the movable member. A pre-shaped input signal is thereby provided which is bandwidth limited such that its energy is concentrated below the frequency of the lowest system resonance, since the signal is a piecewise continuous function comprising concatenated raised cosine and constant functions. The input signal may be asymmetrical and may have acceleration and deceleration amplitudes which differ in magnitude, and thus is useful in systems where it is desirable to the limit frequency content of an input signal while compensating for the effects of back EMF voltage. Since only four parameters are needed to specify the input signal, the signal is easy to construct, and it thus practical for use in high density disk drive applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of moving a member to a desired position in a system including the member and a motor for moving the member, the method comprising the steps of: (a) selecting the desired position for the member; (b) generating an input signal characterized as a piecewise trigonometric function of time specified by a final time, a switch time, an acceleration amplitude, and a deceleration amplitude, the piecewise trigonometric function of time comprising concatenated cosine and constant functions; and (c) applying the input signal to the motor for driving the motor to move the member to the desired position, wherein the final time, the switch time, the acceleration amplitude and the deceleration amplitude are parameters related to the desired position for the member. 2. A method of generating a piecewise trigonometric function of time for use as an input signal in a system, the input signal producing voltages within the system, the piecewise trigonometric function of time being specified by values representing a final time, a switch time, an acceleration amplitude, and a deceleration amplitude, the values being contained in a memory, the method comprising the steps of iteratively: (a) choosing an acceleration amplitude and a deceleration amplitude; (b) obtaining the switch time and final time for the chosen acceleration and deceleration amplitude; and (c) adjusting the acceleration amplitude and deceleration amplitude until the system operates within predetermined operating conditions, comprising the steps of: (i) determining peak positive and negative applied voltages resulting from the input signal; and (ii) adjusting the acceleration amplitude and deceleration amplitude until the peak positive and negative applied voltages lie within predetermined respective voltage ranges. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of adjusting the acceleration amplitude and deceleration amplitude until the peak positive and negative applied voltages lie within predetermined respective voltage ranges comprises the step of adjusting the acceleration amplitude and deceleration amplitude until the magnitudes of the peak positive and negative applied voltages are less than the magnitude of the system supply voltage plus the magnitude of the system supply voltage tolerance. 4. A method of using a motor to move a movable member comprising the steps of: providing data related to a desired final position of the movable member; obtaining a switch time parameter and a final time parameter corresponding to the data related to the desired final position of the movable member; generating an input signal using the switch time and final time parameters to specify a piecewise trigonometric function of time for said input signal, the piecewise trigonometric function of time comprising concatenated cosine and constant functions, the switch time parameter specifying a time at which the input signal changes polarity, and the final time parameter specifying a time at which the input signal is no longer generated; feeding the input signal to the motor; and driving the motor in accordance with the fed input signal to move the movable member to the desired final position. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: using the generated input signal to provide a predicted position signal for the movable member; providing an actual position signal for the movable member by detecting the present position of the movable member; comparing the actual position signal to the predicted position signal to provide an error position signal; and providing a corrected input signal in accordance with the error position signal and the generated input signal; and wherein said step of feeding comprises feeding the corrected input signal to the motor. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of providing a corrected input signal comprises the step of: adjusting the input signal in response to the error position signal. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of providing a corrected input signal comprises the steps of: generating an input adjustment signal in response to said error position signal; and comparing said input adjustment signal and said generated input signal to provide said corrected input signal. 8. A method of using a motor to move a movable member comprising the steps of: providing data related to a desired final position of the movable member; obtaining a switch time parameter, a final time parameter, an acceleration amplitude parameter, and a deceleration amplitude parameter corresponding to the data related to the desired final position of the movable member; generating an input signal using the switch time, final time, acceleration amplitude, and deceleration amplitude parameters to specify a piecewise trigonometric function of time as said input signal, the piecewise trigonometric function of time comprising concatenated cosine and constant functions, the switch time parameter specifying a time at which the input signal changes polarity, and the final time parameter specifying a time at which the input signal is no longer generated; feeding the input signal to the motor; and driving the motor in accordance with the fed input signal to move the movable member to the desired final position. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the acceleration amplitude and the deceleration amplitude have different magnitudes. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein a first time period corresponding to a time between when the input signal is initially generated and the switch time is different than a second time period corresponding to a time between the switch time and the final time. 11. The method of claim 8 further comprising the steps of: using the generated input signal to provide a predicted position signal for the movable member; providing an actual position signal for the movable member by detecting a present position of the movable member; comparing the actual position signal to the predicted position signal to provide an error position signal; and providing a corrected input signal in accordance with the error position signal and the generated input signal; and wherein said step of feeding comprises feeding the corrected input signal to the motor. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of providing a corrected input signal comprises the step of: adjusting the input signal in response to the error position signal. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of providing a corrected input signal comprises the steps of: generating an input adjustment signal in response to said error position signal; and comparing said input adjustment signal and said generated input signal to provide said corrected input signal. 14. An apparatus for using a motor to move a movable member comprising: means for providing data related to a desired final position of the movable member; means responsive to the data for providing a switch time parameter and a final time parameter corresponding to the data related to the desired final position; means for generating an input signal using the switch time and final time parameters to specify a piecewise trigonometric function of time as said input signal, the piecewise trigonometric function of time comprising concatenated cosine and constant functions, the switch time parameter specifying a first time at which the input signal changes polarity, and the final time parameter specifying a second time at which the input signal is no longer generated; and means for feeding the input signal to the motor to move the movable member to the desired final position. 15. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising: means responsive to the generated input signal for providing a predicted position signal for the movable member; means for providing an actual position signal for the movable member by detecting a present position of the movable member; means for comparing the actual position signal to the predicted position signal to provide an error position signal; and means for providing a corrected input signal in accordance with the error position signal and the generated input signal; and wherein said means for feeding comprises: means for feeding the corrected input signal to the motor. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the means for providing a corrected input signal comprises: means for adjusting the input signal in response to the error position signal. 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the means for providing a corrected input signal comprises: means for generating an input adjustment signal in response to said error position signal; and means for comparing said input adjustment signal and said generated input signal to provide said corrected input signal. 18. An apparatus for using a motor to move a movable member comprising: means for providing data related to a desired final position of the movable member; means responsive to the data for providing a switch time parameter, a final time parameter, an acceleration amplitude parameter, and a deceleration amplitude parameter corresponding to the data related to the desired final position; means for generating an input signal using the switch time, final time, acceleration amplitude, and deceleration amplitude parameters to specify a piecewise trigonometric function of time as said input signal, the piecewise trigonometric function of time comprising concatenated cosine and constant functions, the switch time parameter specifying a first time at which the input signal changes polarity, and the final time parameter specifying a second time at which the input signal is no longer generated; and means for feeding the input signal to the motor to move the movable member to the desired final position. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the acceleration amplitude and the deceleration amplitude have different magnitudes. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein a first time period corresponding to a time between when the input signal is initially generated and the switch time is different than a second time period corresponding to a time between the switch time and the final time. 21. The apparatus of claim 18 further comprising: means responsive to the generated input signal for providing a predicted position signal for the movable member; means for providing an actual position signal for the movable member by detecting a present position of the movable member; means for comparing the actual position signal to the predicted position signal to provide an error position signal; and means for providing a corrected input signal in accordance with the error position signal and the generated input signal; and wherein said means for feeding comprises: means for feeding the corrected input signal to the motor. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the means for providing a corrected input signal comprises: means for adjusting the input signal in response to the error position signal. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the means for providing a corrected input signal comprises: means for generating an input adjustment signal in response to said error position signal; and means for comparing said input adjustment signal and said generated input signal to provide said corrected input signal. 24. Apparatus for using a motor to move an actuator arm in a disk drive member comprising: means for providing data related to a desired final position of the actuator arm; a memory coupled to the means for providing data, said memory storing a switch time parameter, a final time parameter, an acceleration amplitude parameter, and a deceleration amplitude parameter corresponding to the data; means coupled to said memory for generating an input signal using the switch time, final time, acceleration amplitude, and deceleration amplitude parameters to specify a piecewise trigonometric function of time as said input signal, the switch time parameter specifying a first time at which the input signal changes polarity, and the final time parameter specifying a second time at which the input signal is no longer generated; means responsive to the generated input signal for providing a predicted position signal for the actuator arm; means for providing an actual position signal for the actuator arm by detecting the present position of the actuator arm; means for comparing the actual position signal to the predicted position signal to provide an error position signal; means for generating an input adjustment signal in response to said error signal; means for comparing said input adjustment signal and said generated input signal to provide a corrected input signal; and means for feeding the corrected input signal to a motor to move the actuator arm. 25. A method of generating a piecewise trigonometric function of time comprising concatenated cosine and constant functions, for use as an input signal in a system including a motor driven by the input signal for moving a movable member, the piecewise trigonometric function of time being specified by values representing a final time, a switch time, an acceleration amplitude, and a deceleration amplitude, the values being contained in a memory, the method comprising the steps of iteratively: (a) choosing an acceleration amplitude and a deceleration amplitude; (b) obtaining the switch time and final time for the chosen acceleration and deceleration amplitudes; and (c) adjusting the acceleration amplitude and deceleration amplitude until the system operates within predetermined operating conditions. 26. A method of generating a piecewise continuous function of time for use as an input signal in a system, the input signal producing voltages within the system, the piecewise trigonometric function of time being specified by values representing a final time, a switch time, an acceleration amplitude, and a deceleration amplitude, the values being contained in a memory, the method comprising the steps of: (a) choosing an acceleration amplitude and a deceleration amplitude; (b) obtaining the switch time and final time for the chosen acceleration and deceleration amplitudes; (c) determining peak positive and negative applied voltages resulting from the input signal; (d) increasing the acceleration amplitude if the peak positive applied voltage is less than a positive voltage limit minus a voltage tolerance; (e) decreasing the acceleration amplitude if the peak positive applied voltage is greater than the positive voltage limit plus the voltage tolerance; (f) holding the acceleration amplitude if the positive voltage limit minus the voltage tolerance is less than the positive applied voltage, and the positive voltage limit plus the voltage tolerance is greater than the positive applied voltage; (g) increasing the deceleration amplitude if the peak negative applied voltage is less than a negative voltage limit minus the voltage tolerance; (h) decreasing the deceleration amplitude if the peak negative applied voltage is greater than the negative voltage limit plus the voltage tolerance; and (i) holding the deceleration amplitude if the negative voltage limit minus the voltage tolerance is less than the negative applied voltage, and the negative voltage limit plus the voltage tolerance is greater than the negative applied voltage. 