A system and a method is provided for imaging desired surfaces of a workpiece. A sensor having first and second sensing electrodes which are electrically isolated from the workpiece is positioned above and in proximity to the desired surfaces of the workpiece. An electric field is developed between the first and second sensing electrodes of the sensor in response to input signals being applied thereto and capacitance signals are developed which are indicative of any disturbances in the electric field as a result of the workpiece. An image signal of the workpiece may be developed by processing the capacitance signals. The image signals may provide necessary control information to a machining device for machining the desired surfaces of the workpiece in processes such as deburring or chamfering. Also, the method and system may be used to image dimensions of weld pools on a workpiece and surfaces of glass vials. The sensor may include first and second preview sensors used to determine the feed rate of a workpiece with respect to the machining device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for machining desired surfaces of a workpiece, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning sensor means and machining means above and in proximity to the workpiece; (b) developing an electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said sensor means in response to input signals applied to said sensor means; (c) changing the location of said sensor means and said machining means with respect to the desired surfaces of the workpiece; (d) sensing any effects in said electric field produced by the workpiece being disposed within the electric field; (e) developing image signals in response to said steps (c) and (d); (f) adjusting said machining means according to said image signals from said step (e); and (g) machining the desired surfaces of the workpiece by said machining means in response to said image signals. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said sensor means comprises a preview sensor and an inspection sensor. 3. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (h) developing said electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said sensor means in response to applying said input signals thereto; (i) sensing any effects in said electric field produced by the workpiece being disposed within said electric field; (j) developing coordinate signals indicative of the location of said sensor means; (k) developing display signals in response to any effects sensed in said electric field at said step (i); and (l) displaying an image of the desired surfaces of the workpiece corresponding to said output display signals and said coordinate signals. 4. A method for deburring desired edges of a workpiece comprising the steps of: (a) positioning sensor means and deburring means above and in proximity to the workpiece; (b) developing an electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said sensor means in response to input signals applied to said sensor means; (c) chamfering the desired edges of the workpiece with respect to the location of said sensor means and said deburring means; (d) sensing any effects in said electric field produced by the workpiece being disposed within said electric field; (e) developing image signals in response to said steps (c) and (d); (f) adjusting said deburring means according to said image signals; and (g) deburring the desired edges of the workpiece by said deburring means in response to said image signals. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said sensor means comprises a preview sensor for sensing any effects in said electric field before said step (g) and an inspection sensor for sensing any effects in said electric field after said step (g). 6. A method according to claim 5, further comprising the steps of: (h) developing said electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said inspection sensor in response to applying said input signals thereto; (i) detecting changes in said electric field between said sensor means and the workpiece after said step (g); (j) developing coordinate signals indicative of the location of said inspection sensor; (k) developing display signals in response to any effects sensed in said electric field at said step (i); and (l) displaying an image of the desired edges of the workpiece corresponding to said display signals and said coordinate signals. 7. A method for chamfering desired edges of a workpiece to predetermined dimensions, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning sensor means and chamfering means above and in proximity to the workpiece; (b) developing an electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said sensor means in response to input signals applied to said sensor means; (c) changing the location of said sensor means and said chamfering means with respect to the desired edges of the workpiece; (d) sensing any effects in said electric field produced by the workpiece being disposed within said electric field; (e) developing image signals in response to said step (d); (f) adjusting said chamfering means according to said image signals; and (g) chamfering the desired edges of the workpiece to the predetermined dimensions by said chamfering means in response to said image signals. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said sensor means comprises a preview sensor for sensing any effects in said electric field before said step (g) and an inspection sensor for sensing any effects in said electric field after said step (g). 9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising the steps of: (h) developing said electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said inspection sensor in response to applying said input signals thereto; (i) sensing any effects in said electric field produced by the workpiece being disposed within said electric field; (j) developing coordinate signals indicative of the location of said sensor; and (k) imaging the desired edges of the workpiece from said inspection sensor in response to said steps (i) and (j). 10. A system for machining desired surfaces of a workpiece, comprising: mounting means being positioned above and in proximity to the workpiece, said mounting means including: sensor means for identifying and locating defects on the desired surfaces of the workpiece, and machining means for machining the desired surfaces of the workpiece; field generating means for generating an electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said sensor means by applying input signals to said sensor means; driving means for changing the location of said mounting means with respect to the desired surfaces of the workpiece and developing coordinate signals indicative of the location of said sensor means with respect to the desired surfaces of the workpiece; field sensing means for sensing any effects in said electric field in response to said sensor means being driven by said driving means; image processing means for developing image signals of the desired surfaces in response to any effects in said electric field sensed by said field sensing means and said coordinate signals from said driving means; and adjusting means for adjusting said machining means in response to said image signals and smoothing the desired surfaces of the workpiece. 11. A system according to claim 10, further comprising: display processing means for developing display signals in response to any effects in said electric field sensed by said field sensing means; and display means for displaying a profile of the desired surfaces of the workpiece in response to said display signals and said coordinate signals. 12. A system according to claim 10, wherein said machining means comprises means for deburring and chamfering the workpiece. 13. A system according to claim 10, wherein said sensor means comprises preview sensor means for sensing any effects in said electric field before the desired surfaces of the workpiece are machined and inspection sensor means for sensing any effects in said electric field after the desired surfaces of the workpiece are machined. 14. A system according to claim 13, wherein said mounting means comprises a surface having a front portion and a rear portion with said preview sensor means being positioned near said front portion, said machining means being positioned between said preview sensor means and said rear portion, and said inspection sensor means being positioned between said machining means and said rear portion. 15. A system according to claim 10, wherein said first sensing electrode receives said input signals and said second sensing electrode develops capacitance signals corresponding to any disturbances in said electric fields. 16. A system according to claim 10, wherein said sensor means comprises an array of first and second sensing electrodes. 17. A system for chamfering desired edges of a workpiece to predetermined dimensions, comprising: mounting means being positioned above and in proximity to the workpiece, said mounting means including: sensor means for monitoring the dimensions of the desired edges of the workpiece, and chamfering means for chamfering said desired edges of the workpiece to the predetermined dimensions; field generating means for generating an electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said sensor means by applying input signals to said sensor means; driving means for changing the location of said mounting means with respect to the desired edges of the workpiece and developing coordinate signals indicative of the location of said sensor means with respect to the desired edges of the workpiece; field sensing means for sensing any effects in said electric field in response to said sensor means being driven by said driving means; image processing means for developing image signals of the desired surfaces in response to any effects in said electric field sensed by said field sensing means and said coordinate signals from said driving means; and adjusting means for adjusting said chamfering means in response to said image signals and chamfering the desired edges of the workpiece to the predetermined dimensions. 18. A system according to claim 17, wherein said sensor means comprises preview sensor means for sensing any effects in said electric field before the desired edges of the workpiece are chamfered and inspection sensor means for sensing any effects in said electric field after the desired edges of the workpiece are chamfered. 19. A system according to claim 18, wherein said mounting means comprises a surface having a front portion and a rear portion with said preview sensor means being positioned near said front portion, said chamfering means being positioned between said preview sensor means and said rear portion, and said inspection sensor means being positioned between said chamfering means and said rear portion. 20. A system according to claim 17, wherein said first sensing electrode receives said input signals and said second sensing electrode develops capacitance signals corresponding to any disturbances in said electric field and indicative of the dimensions of the desired edges. 21. A system according to claim 17, wherein said sensor means comprises an array of first and second sensing electrodes. 22. A system according to claim 21, wherein said array of electrodes comprises a plurality of input first sensing electrodes for receiving said input signals and a plurality of second sensing electrodes for developing capacitance signals corresponding to any disturbance in said electric field and the dimensions of said angles of the desired edges. 23. A system for deburring desired edges of a workpiece, comprising: mounting means being positioned above and in proximity to the workpiece, said mounting means including: sensor means for identifying and locating burrs on desired edges of the workpiece, and deburring means for removing said burrs from the workpiece; field generating means for generating an electric field between first and second sensing electrodes of said sensor means by applying input signals to said sensor means; driving means for changing the location of said mounting means with respect to the desired edges of the workpiece and developing coordinate signals indicative of the location of said sensor means with respect to the desired edges of the workpiece; field sensing means for sensing any effects in said electric field in response to said sensor means being driven by said driving means; image processing means for developing image signals of the desired edges in response to any effects in said electric field sensed by said field sensing means and said coordinate signals from said driving means; and adjusting means for adjusting said deburring means in response to said image signals and removing said burrs in order to smooth the desired edges of the workpiece. 24. A system according to claim 23, wherein said sensor means comprises preview sensor means for sensing any effects in said electric field before the desired edges of the workpiece are deburred and inspection sensor means for sensing any effects in said electric field after the desired edges of the workpiece are deburred. 25. A system according to claim 24, wherein said mounting means comprises a surface having a front portion and a rear portion with said preview sensor means being positioned near said front portion, said deburring means being positioned between said preview sensor means and said rear portion, and said inspection sensor means being positioned between said deburring means and said rear portion. 26. A system according to claim 23, wherein said first sensing electrode receives said input signals and said second sensing electrode develops capacitance signals corresponding to any disturbances in said electric field and indicative of the size of said burrs. 27. A system according to claim 23, wherein said sensor means comprises an array of first and second sensing electrodes. 28. A system according to claim 27, wherein said array of first and second sensing electrodes comprises a plurality of first sensing electrodes for receiving said input signals and a plurality of second sensing electrodes for developing capacitance signals corresponding to any disturbances in said electric field and indicative of the size of said burrs. 29. A system according to claim 23, wherein said field sensing means comprises: a first amplifier for amplifying capacitance signals from said sensor means corresponding to changes in said electric field and indicative of the size of said burrs; synchronous detection means for detecting a component of said capacitance signals at the same frequency and phase as said input signals; low pass filtering means for filtering said component of said capacitance signals; and a second amplifier for developing voltage level signals corresponding to said capacitance signals. 