A remote control transmitting device for a robot includes a secret number switching unit for inputting user's secret numbers; a function selecting switch for allowing the user to select a robotic function; a high level & open signal transmitting circuit for outputting voltage signals representing various robotic functions, respectively; an operation command switching unit for receiving operation commands from the user such as release, warning sound, scouting, left, forward and right; a low and enable signal transmitting circuit for outputting a low signal and an enable signal after receipt of the user's operation command signal outputted from the operation command switching unit; and an encoder for outputting encoded signals in accordance with the low & enable signal transmitting circuit, the secret number switching unit and the high level & open signal transmitting circuit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A remote control transmitting device for a robot, comprising: a power source for outputting a direct voltage; secret number switching means for inputting secret numbers of a user; a function selecting switch for allowing the user to select a function from among a plurality of different functions of the robot; a high level and open signal transmitting circuit, coupled to said function selecting switch, wherein, when said function selecting switch is rendered conductive, a high level voltage outputted from the battery is received to thereby output a high level voltage indicative of a first predetermined function of the robot, and when said function selection switch is turned off, an open signal is generated indicative of a second predetermined function of the robot which is different from the first predetermined function, wherein said high level and open signal transmitting circuit comprises a plurality of resistors, and a plurality of diodes; operation command switching means coupled to receive a plurality of different operation commands from the user; a low and enable signal transmitting circuit for outputting a low signal and an enable signal after receiving the user's operation command signal outputted from the operation command switching means; an encoder, coupled to said low and enable signal transmitting circuit, said secret number switching means, and said high level and open signal transmitting circuit, for outputting secret-coded signals, and function and operation command signals; and an output transmitting circuit coupled to said encoder, for outputting signals from said encoder as infrared signals to the robot. 2. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 1, wherein the secret number switching means comprises a plurality of switches having a plurality of movable contacts, respectively, said movable contacts being commonly connected to an enable terminal of said encoder. 3. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 2, wherein said plurality of switches includes a plurality of stationary contacts, respectively, said contacts being respectively connected to input terminals of said encoder. 4. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 1, wherein a ground terminal of said encoder is commonly connected to said enable terminal of said encoder. 5. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 1, wherein said operation command switching means comprises a first switch, a second switch and a third switch. 6. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 5, wherein a movable contact of said first switch, a movable contact of said second switch and a movable contact of said third switch are commonly connected to a negative terminal of the power source. 7. A remote control transmitting device for a robot, comprising: a power source for outputting a direct voltage; secret number switching means for inputting secret numbers of a user; a function selecting switch for allowing the user to select a function from among a plurality of different functions of the robot; a high level and open signal transmitting circuit, coupled to said function selecting switch, wherein, when said function selecting switch is rendered conductive, a high level voltage outputted from the battery is received to thereby output a high level voltage indicative of a first predetermined function of the robot, and when said function selection switch is turned off, an open signal is generated indicative of a second predetermined function of the robot which is different from the first predetermined function; operation command switching means coupled to receive a plurality of different operation commands from the user; a low and enable signal transmitting circuit for outputting a low signal and an enable signal after receiving the user's operation command signal outputted from the operation command switching means, wherein said low and enable signal transmitting circuit comprises a plurality of diodes; an encoder, coupled to said low and enable signal transmitting circuit, said secret number switching means, and said high level and open signal transmitting circuit, for outputting secret-coded signals, and function and operation command signals; and an output transmitting circuit coupled to said encoder, for outputting signals from said encoder as infrared signals to the robot. 8. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 7, wherein the secret number switching means comprises a plurality of switches having a plurality of movable contacts, respectively, said movable contacts being commonly connected to an enable terminal of said encoder. 9. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 8, wherein said plurality of switches includes a plurality of stationary contacts, respectively, said contacts being respectively connected to input terminals of said encoder. 10. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 7, wherein said operation command switching means comprises a first switch, a second switch and a third switch. 11. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 10, wherein a movable contact of said first switch, a movable contact of said second switch and a movable contact of said third switch are commonly connected to a negative terminal of the power source. 12. The remote control transmitting device as defined in claim 7, wherein a ground terminal of said encoder is commonly connected to said enable terminal of said encoder. 