In the control of legged mobile robot, a desired walking pattern (gait) is usually preestablished supposing a floor such that the robot walks on the floor. However, if a floor on which the robot walks actually is not the same as the supposed floor so that there is an angular therebetween, floor reaction force is not the same as that desired, causing the locomotion stable. Therefore, the error is estimated and the desired walking pattern is corrected in response to the error such that the floor reaction force becomes as desired. Namely, the robot's possible floor contact portion's position is firstly calculated on the assumption that the robot does not exhibit any compliance behavior including mechanical deformation intrinsically assigned thereto and a plane which wholly or partly includes or has the possible floor contact portion's position, is presumed. Then an angle formed by the virtual plane and the supposed floor is presumed. And floor reaction force is controlled through the angle and the desired walking pattern is corrected such that floor reaction force becomes as desired. The error is similarly used to correct output of an inclinometer equipped on the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling locomotion of a legged mobile robot having a body and a plurality of legs each connected to the body, comprising; first means for modeling the robot as a rigid linkage mechanism and establishing desired walking pattern supposing a floor such that the robot walks on the supposed floor; second means for detecting actual inclination of the robot posture when the robot walks; third means for determining the posture of the robot at least from the detected actual inclination of the robot posture on the assumption that the robot does not exhibit compliance behavior intrinsically assigned thereto; fourth means for determining a relative relationship between the determined robot posture and the supposed floor; fifth means for estimating, in accordance with a predetermined characteristic, floor reaction force which could act to the robot should the robot change its posture by virtue of the compliance behavior intrinsically assigned thereto such that at least a possible floor contact portion is in contact with the supposed floor; sixth means for detecting floor reaction force that actually acts to the robot; seventh means for determining an error between the estimated floor reaction force and the detected actual floor reaction force; and eighth means for correcting the supposed floor in response to the determined error. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said eighth means corrects the desired walking pattern on the basis of the corrected supposed floor. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein said eighth means corrects the desired walking pattern such that the detected actual floor reaction force coincides with desired floor reaction force. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein said eighth means corrects the desired walking pattern by virtually rotating the possible floor contact portion of the desired walking pattern by an amount corresponding to the error. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein said seventh means includes a feedback loop such that the error is decreased. 6. A system according to claim 5, wherein the feedback loop includes an integral element. 7. A system according to claim 3, wherein said seventh means includes a feedback loop such that the error is decreased. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein the feedback loop is provided outside of a control loop starting from the desired floor reaction force and ending at the actual floor reaction force. 9. A system according to claim 1, further including ninth means for detecting joint displacements of the robot and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected actual inclination of the robot posture and the detected joint displacements. 10. A system according to claim 1, further including tenth means for calculating averages of the detected joint displacement and joint displacement commands and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected actual inclination of the robot posture and the averages of the detected joint displacements and joint displacement commands. 11. A system for controlling locomotion of a legged mobile robot having a body and a plurality of legs each connected to the body, comprising; first means for modeling the robot as a rigid linkage mechanism and establishing desired walking pattern supposing a floor such that the robot walks on the supposed floor; second means for detecting actual inclination of the robot posture when the robot walks; third means for determining the posture of the robot at least from the detected actual inclination of the robot posture to determine a first relative relationship between the determined robot posture and the supposed floor; fourth means for detecting floor reaction force that actually acts to the robot; fifth means for determining, from the detected actual floor reaction force in accordance with a preestablished characteristic, a second relative relationship between the determined robot posture and the supposed floor; and sixth means for determining an error between the first and second relative relationships to correct the supposed floor in response to the error. 12. A system according to claim 11, wherein said sixth means corrects the desired walking pattern on the basis of the corrected supposed floor. 13. A system according to claim 12, wherein said sixth means corrects the desired walking pattern such that the actual floor reaction force coincides with desired floor reaction force. 14. A system according to claim 13, wherein said sixth means corrects the desired walking pattern by virtually rotating a possible floor contact portion of the desired walking pattern by an amount corresponding to the error. 15. A system according to claim 11, wherein said sixth means includes a feedback loop such that the error is decreased. 16. A system according to claim 15, wherein the feedback loop includes an integral element. 17. A system according to claim 13, wherein said seventh means includes a feedback loop such that the error is decreased. 18. A system according to claim 17, wherein the feedback loop is provided outside of a control loop starting from the desired floor reaction force and ending at the actual floor reaction floor. 19. A system according to claim 11, further including seventh means for detecting joint displacements of the robot and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected inclination and the detected joint displacements. 20. A system according to claim 11, further including eighth means for calculating averages of the detected joint displacement and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected inclination and the averages of the detected joint displacements and joint displacement commands. 21. A system for correcting output of an inclinometer mounted on a legged mobile robot having a body and a plurality of legs each connected to the body, comprising; first means for modeling the robot as a rigid linkage mechanism and establishing desired walking pattern supposing a floor such that the robot walks on the supposed floor; second means for detecting actual inclination of the robot posture through the inclinometer when the robot walks; third means for determining the posture of the robot at least from the detected actual inclination of the robot posture on the assumption that the robot does not exhibit compliance behavior intrinsically assigned thereto; fourth means for determining a relative relationship between the determined robot posture and the supposed floor; fifth means for estimating, in accordance with a predetermined characteristics, floor reaction force which could act to the robot should the robot change its posture by virtue of the compliance behavior intrinsically assigned hereto such that at least a possible floor contact portion is in contact with the supposed floor; sixth means for detecting floor reaction force that actually acts to the robot; and seventh means for determining an error between the estimated floor reaction force and the detected actual floor reaction force to correct an output of the inclinometer in response to the error. 22. A system according to claim 21, further including eighth means for detecting joint displacements of the robot and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected inclination and the detected joint displacements. 23. A system according to claim 21, further including ninth means for calculating averages of the detected joint displacement and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected inclination and the averages of the detected joint displacements and joint displacement commands. 24. A system for correcting output of an inclinometer mounted on a legged mobile robot having a body and a plurality of legs each connected to the body, comprising; first means for modeling the robot as a rigid linkage mechanism and establishing desired walking pattern supposing a floor such that the robot walks on the supposed floor; second means for detecting actual inclination of the robot posture through the inclinometer when the robot walks; third means for determining the posture of the robot at least from the detected actual inclination of the robot posture to determine a first relative relationship between the determined robot posture and the supposed floor; fourth means for detecting floor reaction force that actually acts to the robot; fifth means for determining, from the detected actual floor reaction force in accordance with a preestablished characteristic, a second relative relationship between the determined robot posture and the supposed floor; and sixth means for determining an error between the first and second relative relationships to correct the output of the inclinometer in response to the error. 25. A system according to claim 24, further including seventh means for detecting joint displacements of the robot and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected inclination and the detected joint displacements. 26. A system according to claim 24, further including ninth means for calculating averages of the detected joint displacement and said third means determines the posture of the robot from the detected inclination and the averages of the detected joint displacements and joint displacement commands. 