A planetary type speed reducer provides a large central hole for passing electric and service lines for a robot therethrough. The speed reducer may be used in either a self-motorized or an externally-motorized rotary joint. In a predetermined embodiment, the speed reducer includes a cylindrical carrier and multiple compound gear planets which are rotatably mounted on their respective shafts some of which, in turn, are eccentrically mounted on the carrier. A method for manufacturing the gear planets is also provided. Each of the gears has two sections or parts which are shifted angularly relative to each other and are adapted to engage adjacent fixed output gears of the rotary joint.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for constructing compound gear planets for a planetary gear reducer having output and reaction gears, each of the gear planets including two sections having teeth, the teeth of one section being angularly phased relative to the teeth of the other section about a common central axis, a method comprising the steps of: mounting the two sections on a common axis so that both of the sections butt against each other; orienting the two sections relative to each other with a predetermined angular phase shift between the teeth of the sections; and joining the two sections so that the two sections rotate together wherein the two sections are mounted on and joined to a common axle at opposite ends of the common axle to allow the common axle to provide angular compliance between the two sections and hence allowing for load sharing among compound gear planets engaging a common reaction gear and a common output gear. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the two sections are joined to each other. 3. The method of claims 1 or 2 wherein the step of joining is accomplished with a bonding compound. 4. The method of claims 1 or 2 wherein the step of joining includes the step of welding. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of welding is accomplished with an electron beam. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of welding is accomplished with a laser beam. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said axle is a hollow sleeve. 