A carriage or dielectric disk (40) has a series of electrical contacts (46, 48) defined by conventional circuit board techniques on upper and lower surfaces around a peripheral edge. Sockets (42, 44) are wave soldered in electrical connection with the electrical contacts. At least the electrical contacts are plated with a hard, dense metal, such as nickel. When components have been frictionally inserted into the sockets, the carriage is placed in a cooling chamber (18). Air of a selected temperature is blown through a central port (22) and directed to flow over the surface of the carriage and the supported components (10). A motor (60) rotates the carriage to move the electrical contacts (46, 48) successively into electrical communication with relatively soft electrical contact springs (58) connected with a test instrument (32). The test circuit measures electrical characteristics or properties of each component at each of a plurality of preselected temperatures. Based on the measured properties, the components are sorted.
Claims Having thus described the preferred embodiment, the invention is now claimed to be: 1. A test system for electrical components, the test system comprising: a carriage for carrying a plurality of components to be tested, the carriage including: a flat disk-shaped member having a substantially circular periphery, a first series of electrical contacts disposed adjacent the circular periphery of the disk-shaped member, a second series of electrical contacts disposed adjacent the circular periphery of the disk-shaped member, a plurality of sockets for removably receiving electrical components to be tested, the sockets being disposed on the disk-shaped member and electrically connected with the first and second series of contacts; a turntable means for rotatably supporting the carriage; an electrical connection means for sequentially connecting each of the first and second series of electrical contacts with an electrical characteristic measurement means for measuring electrical characteristics of the components. 2. A test system for electrical components, the test system comprising: a carriage for carrying a plurality of components to be tested, the carriage including: a first series of electrical contacts having a relatively hard surface, a second series of electrical contacts having a relatively hard surface, a plurality of sockets for removably receiving electrical components to be tested, the sockets being electrically connected with the first and second series of contacts; a turntable means for rotatably supporting the carriage; first and second electrically conductive spring members of a relatively soft electrically conductive material, the first and second spring members being mounted such that the first spring member is biased into frictional contact with the first series of electrical contacts and the second spring member is biased into frictional contact with the second series of electrical contacts, such that the relatively hard surface of first and second series of electrical contacts and the relatively soft material of the spring members cause the spring members to wear, with minimal wear on the first and second series of contacts; an electrical characteristic measurement means connected with the spring members for sequentially measuring characteristics of the components received in the sockets. 3. A carriage for carrying electrical components in a test system, the carriage comprising: a carriage body having a circular periphery; a first series of electrical contacts disposed adjacent the carriage body circular periphery; a second series of electrical contacts disposed adjacent the carriage body circular periphery; the first and second series of electrical contacts having a surface of a relatively hard conductive material as compared to electrical contact elements that selectively make rubbing friction contact therewith such that relative wear between the first and second series of electrical contacts and the electrical contact elements causes the electrical contact elements to wear, rather than the first and second series of contacts; a plurality of sockets for removably receiving electrical components to be tested, the sockets being disposed on the carriage body concentric with the circular periphery and electrically connected with the first and second series of contacts. 4. A method of testing electronic components, the method comprising: inserting electrical components into sockets of a circular carriage, the sockets being connected with at least two series of electrical contacts arranged peripherally around the carriage, the two series of electrical contacts having a relatively hard conductive surface; rotating the carriage such that the electrical contacts are rotated successively into frictional contact with electrically conductive spring members which are connected with a test instrument for testing electrical parameters, the spring members being of relatively soft material such that the frictional contact of the spring members and the electrical contacts wears the spring members and leaves the electrical contacts with minimal wear; as the spring members come in sequential contact with the electrical contacts, testing each associated component with the test instrument to obtain the electrical parameters. 5. The method as set forth in claim 4 wherein the turntable is disposed in a test chamber and further including: adjusting the temperature test chamber to bring the electrical components into temperature equilibrium at each of a plurality of temperatures and repeating the steps of rotating the disk and testing the components at each of the plurality of temperatures. 6. A method of testing the temperature dependence of electronic components, the method comprising: providing a flat dielectric disk having oppositely disposed first and second faces and a circular peripheral edge, at least first and second series of electrical contacts being arranged peripherally on the flat dielectric disk along the peripheral edge with at least one of the series of contacts being disposed on the first disk face, a plurality of sockets for receiving components being electrically connected with the electrical contacts; inserting electronic components into the sockets such that each electronic component is connected with one of the first series of contacts and with one of the second series of contacts; removably mounting the flat disk on a rotary turntable in an environmental test chamber; in the environmental test chamber, rotating the disk such that the electrical contacts are rotated successively into electrical connection with electrical contact elements which are connected with a test instrument for testing electrical parameters; changing temperature in the environmental test chamber to each of a plurality of temperatures and bringing the electronic components into temperature equilibrium at each of the plurality of temperatures; at each of the plurality of temperatures, rotating the disk such that the first and second series of electrical contacts are brought progressively into electrical connection with the electrical contact elements and testing each associated electronic component with the test instrument to obtain temperature dependence of the electrical parameters. 7. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the disk has a notch along its peripheral edge and the electrical contact elements include an oppositely disposed pair of electrical contact springs and wherein: during the step of inserting the disk into the environmental test chamber, the pair of electrical spring contacts are passed through the notch. 8. The method as set forth in claim 7 wherein the first series of electrical contacts are disposed on the first face of the flat dielectric disk and the second series of electrical contacts are mounted on the second face of the flat dielectric disk and wherein the rotating step includes: camming the oppositely disposed pair of electrical springs contacts apart with an edge of the dielectric disk that defines the notch; and, as the disk rotates, with the electrical contact springs concurrently engaging an electrical contact of the first series and an electrical contact of the second series which contacts are connected with one of the electronic components such that the one electronic component is connected with the test instrument. 9. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the electrical elements include an oppositely disposed pair of electrical contact springs and wherein the rotating step includes: as the disk rotates, concurrently camming the oppositely disposed pair of electrical contact springs into an electrical contact of the first series and an electrical contact of the second series which are connected with one of the electronic components such that the electronic component is connected with the test instrument. 10. The method as set forth in claim 9 wherein the electrical contacts are harder than the oppositely disposed pair of electrical contact springs such that the electrical contacts are resistant to wear. 11. The method as set forth in claim 10 wherein the step of providing the flat electrical disk includes coating the electrical contacts with nickel such that the electrical contacts are harder than the electrical contact springs. 12. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the step of providing the disk includes: laminating a thin layer of conductive metal adjacent at least the circular peripheral edge of each of the first and second faces of the flat dielectric disk; etching the conductive metal layers into the first and second series of electrical contacts; mounting the sockets to the dielectric disk adjacent the electrical contacts; connecting each socket to one of the electrical contacts. 13. The method as set forth in claim 6 further including: providing a second flat dielectric disk having oppositely disposed faces with at least two series of electrical contacts being arranged peripherally on the flat dielectric disk and a plurality of sockets for receiving components being electrically connected with the electrical contacts; inserting electronic components into the sockets of the second dielectric disk; inserting the second dielectric disk into the environmental chamber such that the first and second disks are stacked in alignment. 14. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the step of inserting electronic components into the sockets is performed robotically and further including: robotically removing components from the sockets. 15. The method as set forth in claim 14 further including: as the electronic components are robotically removed from the sockets, sorting the electronic components in accordance with electrical parameters tested by the test instrument. 16. The method as set forth in claim 6 wherein the electronic components are quartz crystal elements. 17. The method of testing electronic components as set forth in claim 4 further including: prior to the inserting step fabricating the carrier including the steps of: laminating a thin layer of conductive metal at least along a circular periphery of opposite surfaces of a generally planar, circular dielectric disk; etching the conductive metal layer into series of electrically isolated electrical contacts on the opposite surfaces along the circular periphery; mounting component lead receiving sockets to the dielectric disk adjacent the series of electrical contacts; connecting the sockets to the electrical contacts; after the inserting step: mounting the disk on a rotatable turntable. 18. The method as set forth in claim 17 further including plating the series of electrical contacts with a metal that is harder than the electrical contact springs such that the sliding electrical contact causes wear of the electrical contact springs and not the series of electrical contacts. 19. A method of testing temperature dependent electronic components, the method comprising: inserting electrical components into sockets of a circular carriage, the sockets being connected with at least two series of electrical contacts arranged peripherally around the carriage, the two series of electrical contacts having a relatively hard conductive surface; rotating the carriage such that the electrical contacts are rotated successively into frictional contact with electrically conductive spring members which are connected with a test instrument for testing temperature dependent electrical parameters, the spring members being of relatively soft material such that the frictional contact of the spring members and the electrical contacts wears the spring members and leaves the electrical contacts with minimal wear; bringing the electrical components into temperature equilibrium at each of a plurality of temperatures; at each of the plurality of temperatures, rotating the disk such that the first and second series of electrical contacts are brought progressively into electrical connection with the spring members; as the spring members come in sequential contact with the electrical contacts, testing each associated component with the test instrument to obtain the temperature dependent electrical parameters. 20. The method as set forth in claim 19 wherein the first and second series of electrical contacts are mounted directly on the first and second faces of the flat dielectric disk and further including squeezing the electrical contacts and the dielectric disk between the pair of electrical spring contacts. 