A solder-desolder system includes a hand held tool having an electrically heated soldering tip which is a hollow tube through which molten solder may be removed from the workpiece by a steady inward flow of air or by a strong impulse, vacuum stroke. Also supplied to the workpiece is a flow of solder melting hot gas which may be inert for improved soldering performance. The hot gas is directed over the heated soldering tube and may independently melt the solder or it may be utilized to preheat the work. In any event, the system provides in a compact hand held soldering tool a jet of hot air within which is a hot soldering tube tip within which a vacuum flow removes molten solder from the workpiece. A further aspect of the solder-desolder system is a trigger in the handle of the tool which selectively connects the hollow tube to an ambient air driven venturi to provide the vacuum stroke. A base unit houses the venturi, a control circuit to remotely energize and temperature control the soldering tip heater, a gas control solenoid value, and a solenoid value to control the operation of the gas driven venturi. A rest switch in a cradle, for the hand held tool, deactivates these gas and/or air flow functions when the tool is at idle and is placed by the operator onto the cradle portion of the base unit.
Claims I claim: 1. An electrically heated solder-desolder tool comprising: a cylindrical barrel having a forward nozzle end and a closed rear end; a hollow cylindrical heating element housed coaxially within said barrel; duct means for feeding a pressurized gas into said barrel and out its said forward nozzle end; gas heating means disposed annularly between said barrel and said heating element and axially between said duct means and said nozzle end; a metallic heat collector disposed at least partially within said hollow cylindrical heating element in effective heat exchange relation therewith; a hollow metallic tube member disposed radially within said heat collector and extending forwardly therefrom into said forward nozzle end of said barrel substantially concentric therewith and forming a forwardly directed hot gas passageway in an annular cylindrical space defined therebetween, said tube member extending forwardly to be at least axially substantially coextensive therewith whereby said pressurized gas flows in said gas heating means, through said passageway, and is ejected forwardly out of said nozzle end as a solder melting jet of heated gas; a vacuum chamber disposed within said barrel rearwardly of said heating element and communicating through the interior of said hollow tube member with said nozzle end in a gas flow relation; and vacuum means selectively coupled to said vacuum chamber for drawing molten solder from said nozzle end thereinto. 2. The invention as set forth in Claim 1 in which said gas heating means includes a helical channel extending axially along and over an electrically energized portion of said heating element. 3. The invention as set forth in Claim 1 in which said tube member extends forwardly of said nozzle end by a fraction of its diameter. 4. The invention as set forth in Claim 1 which further includes a base unit comprising: a body member including cradle means for holding said barrel when the tool is not in use; soldering gas control means for supplying said pressurized gas to said duct means; vacuum control means for providing a vacuum creating flow to said vacuum means of said barrel; temperature control means for energizing and remotely controlling the temperature of said heating element; and unitary hose and cable means for coupling said soldering gas control means, said vacuum control means, and said temperature control means to said barrel. 5. The invention as set forth in Claim 4 which further includes a rest switch operable by said barrel when removed from said cradle means for enabling said vacuum and gas control means. 6. The invention as set forth in Claim 5 in which said rest switch is coupled to said soldering gas control means and said vacuum control means whereby said pressurized gas and said vacuum are enabled upon actuation of said switch. 7. The invention as set forth in Claim 5 in which vacuum control means includes an air driven venturi. 8. The invention as set forth in Claim 4 which further includes: a handle body affixed supportingly to said barrel; vacuum valve means disposed within said handle body and coupled between said vacuum chamber and said vacuum control means; and trigger means carried by said handle body selectively impressing a vacuum condition in said vacuum chamber. 9. The invention as set forth in Claim 8 in which said vacuum valve means includes air bleeding means operable by said trigger means to selectively permit a flow of ambient air therethrough back to said vacuum control means only when said vacuum valve means is closed. 10. The invention as set forth in Claim 8 which further includes cleaning liquid injection means coupled to said duct means for providing a flow of such liquid through said gas heating means for substantial vaporization thereof. 11. The invention as set forth in Claim 10 in which said injection means includes venturi means driven by said flow of pressurized gas and which further includes a cleaning liquid supply and liquid flow control means for coupling said supply to said venturi. 