A detachable monorail system is provided for conveying articles between workstations wherein carriers may be disengaged and moved independently from the monorail. A carrier is provided with a load retainer, a hook, and a roller. A chain having a plurality of load bar assemblies is provided for supporting a pin extending transverse to the length of the chain. A guide track vertically adjacent the chain extends along a portion of the length of the chain. A disengagement station is defined at a location where the chain and the guide track converge vertically so that the hook disengages the load bar assembly as the roller contacts the guide track. An engagement station is defined at a location where the chain and the guide track diverge vertically so that the hook engages the load bar assembly to lift the roller off of the guide track.
Claims We claim: 1. A detachable monorail system comprising: a carrier; a load retainer supported by the carrier; a hook rigidly secured relative to the carrier with an opening oriented in one longitudinally aligned direction; a roller secured by a bracket to the carrier; a chain including a plurality of links arranged lengthwise, the chain having a plurality of load bar assemblies secured to the chain, each of the load bar assemblies supporting a pin extending transverse to the length of the chain; a drive operatively engaging the chain; a guide track vertically adjacent the chain and extending along a portion of the length of the chain; means for driving the carrier on the guide track in said one longitudinally aligned direction; a disengagement station being defined by the chain and the guide track converging vertically, the hook disengaging the load bar assembly as the roller contacts the guide track and the load bar is moved by the chain through the opening in the hook; and an engagement station being defined by the chain and the guide track diverging vertically, the hook engaging the load bar assembly to lift the roller off of the guide track, said load bar being moved by the chain through the opening in the hook. 2. The detachable monorail system of claim 1 wherein the guide track and chain converge at the disengagement station to a point at which the load bar assembly clears a distal end of the hook allowing the chain to move independently of the carrier. 3. The detachable monorail system of claim 1 wherein the guide track and chain diverge at the engagement station from a point at which the load bar assembly clears a distal end of the hook to a point at which the load bar assembly is engaged by the hook allowing the chain to move the carrier. 4. The detachable monorail system of claim 1 wherein a source of motive power is provided for moving the carrier along the guide track from the disengagement station to the engagement station. 5. The detachable monorail system of claim 4 wherein the source of motive power is a hydraulic drive. 6. The detachable monorail system of claim 4 wherein the source of motive power is a second chain drive. 7. The detachable monorail system of claim 4 wherein the source of motive power is a robotic system. 8. The detachable monorail system of claim 4 wherein the source of motive power is manual impetus. 9. The detachable monorail system of claim 1 further comprising means for controlling relative movement of the chain and carrier, wherein the chain moves at a substantially constant rate of speed and the carrier moves at a different rates of speed between the disengagement station and the engagement station, the carrier initially moving faster than the chain at the engagement station to move the hook ahead of the load bar assembly and then reducing the speed at which the carrier is moved until the load bar assembly is moved by the chain to engage the hook and lift the carrier by the hook. 10. The detachable monorail system of claim 1 further comprising means for decelerating the carrier, wherein the carrier slows down upon contacting the disengagement station and the chain continues to move wherein the hook disengages the load bar assembly. 11. A monorail system having a detachable carrier assembly and comprising: a monorail having a plurality of load bars movably carried thereby, each load bar having a first coupling member; a carrier assembly adapted for carrying a workpiece and having a roller and a second coupling member; a first guide track portion adjacent the monorail, the first guide track including means for selectively engaging the roller for decoupling the first and second coupling members when the roller engages the first guide track, the first guide track extending from a first position adjacent the monorail for engagement by the roller to a workstation; and a second guide track extending from the workstation to a second position adjacent the monorail, the second guide track including means for disengaging the roller from the second guide track at the second position and for recoupling the first and second coupling members. 12. The monorail system of claim 11 wherein the detachable carrier assembly comprises: a carrier member secured to the second coupling member; a load retainer supported by the carrier member; and a bracket securing the roller to the carrier member. 13. The monorail system of claim 12 wherein the first coupling member is a pin and the second coupling member is a rigid hook adapted to couple with the first coupling member. 14. The monorail system of claim 13 wherein the first guide track and the monorail respectively converge vertically, the hook disengaging the load bar assembly at the first position adjacent the monorail. 15. The monorail system of claim 13 wherein the first guide track and the monorail respectively diverge vertically, the hook disengaging the load bar assembly at the first position adjacent the monorail. 16. The monorail system of claim 13 wherein the second guide track and the monorail respectively diverge vertically, the hook engaging the load bar assembly to lift the roller off of the second guide track assembly at the second position adjacent the monorail. 17. The monorail system of claim 13 wherein the second guide track and the monorail respectively converge vertically, the hook engaging the load bar assembly to lift the roller off of the second guide track assembly at the second position adjacent the monorail. 18. A method of detaching and reattaching a carrier coupling from a conveyor for facilitating the removal of the carrier from the conveyor to a workstation and for return of the carrier to the conveyor, the method comprising the steps of: elevating the coupling relative to the conveyor to detach the carrier from the conveyor; initially moving the carrier away from the conveyor to a workstation after detaching the coupling from the conveyor; subsequently moving the carrier from a workstation toward the conveyor; lowering the coupling relative to the conveyor to reattach the carrier to the conveyor; and wherein during one of said moving steps the carrier is propelled at a greater rate of speed than the conveyor to place the carrier forward of the conveyor relative to the direction of movement of the conveyor. 