Flexible robot arms are required for manipulation in environments having difficult access, for example, areas having restricted environments and areas beset with obstacles. An apparatus having various basic elements which are flat, arranged one on top of the other so as to tilt and are connected to one another by means of joints is provided. Here, the individual basic elements are arranged along a stacking axis. Between the individual basic elements, adjusting members, e.g. air chambers are provided which make it possible to set a precise angle between the respective basic elements. Control logic and a control bus with an electric power supply ensure in each adjusting member that the predetermined position is maintained.
Claims I claim: 1. A flexible robot arm apparatus, comprising: a plurality of trunk elements joined on top of each other along an axis to form a trunk, each element being divided, by at least one cutting plane in said axis of said trunk, into segments which can be expanded or compressed independently of one another in the longitudinal direction of said trunk; means for controlling said expansion or compression, said control means separated from said arm; means for supplying power to said arm apparatus, said power supply means separated from said arm; and said trunk elements being oriented in a mutually reversed array in said longitudinal direction of said trunk with respect to said axis so that a tip of said trunk can be comprehensively maneuvered by said separate expansion and compression of various said trunk element segments. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said trunk elements are hose-shaped and are divided into two said segments. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said expansion and compression occur via a force selected from a group consisting of: piezoelectric, electrostatic, magnetic, hydraulic and pneumatic forces. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said expansion and compression of said trunk element segments occur at least partially and independently of one another, via said control. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said control means is further defined by providing a local electronic control means for controlling predetermined parameters in said trunk element segments. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said trunk elements along said axis of said trunk are hollow. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said parameters are selected from a group consisting of: pressure, field strength, voltage and angle. 