A nonvolatile electro-optical read-only memory includes a substrate on which is printed (or otherwise inscribed) a complex symbol or "label" with a high density two-dimensional symbology, a variable number of component symbols or "codewords" per row, and a variable number of rows. Codewords in alternating rows are selected from mutually exclusive subsets of a mark pattern such as a (17,4) mark pattern. The subsets are defined in terms of particular values of a discriminator function, which is illustrated as being a function of the widths of bars and spaces in a given codeword. In the illustrated embodiment, each subset includes 929 available codewords; that, plus a two-step method of decoding scanned data, permitting significant flexibility in defining mappings of human-readable symbol sets into codewords. The memory may be used in conjunction with a scanner and a suitable control system in a number of applications, e.g., robotic operations or automated microfilm searching.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electro-optical computer having a memory comprising: (a) a machine-readable label holding a data file structure made up of a plurality of marks having one of two different states, said data file structure including (i) a plurality of codewords selected from a set of patterns of said marks, wherein each of said codewords represents at least one information-bearing character, and (ii) at least two rows of said codewords, wherein the codewords in one of said rows are members of a first subset of said set of mark patterns, and the codewords in a second one of the rows are members of a second subset of said set of mark patterns, the first subset of said set of mark patterns being distinguishable from the second subset of said set of mark patterns; (b) a system for reading the label and generating a signal representative of the codewords in said rows, said system being capable of concurrently reading a portion of the codewords from each of the two rows by distinguishing the first and second subsets; and (c) processing means, responsive to said signal, for processing the information-bearing characters in the codewords in said memory. 2. The electro-optical computer of claim 1, wherein each of said codewords is selected from a subset of acceptable mark patterns such that each of the subsets includes only codewords X whose marks have widths smaller than a specified upper boundary, whose x-sequence functions f(x)=(x.sub.1 -x.sub.3 +x.sub.5 -x.sub.7) mod 9 equals 0, 3, or 6, and whose t-sequences t.sub.i =x.sub.i +x.sub.i+1 are less than 9, where x.sub.i represents the width of the ith mark of the codeword. 3. The electro-optical computer of claim 1, wherein the scanning system includes: a light source for sending a light beam to impinge on the label; a lens for focusing the light beam from the light source onto the label; and a detector for receiving the light beam after it reflects from the label. 4. The electro-optical computer of claim 3, wherein the lens also includes means for focusing the light beam onto the detector after it has been reflected. 5. The electro-optical computer of claim 1, wherein each of said mark patterns in said set of mark patterns has a determinable discriminator function, and wherein the processor means includes: means for computing a discriminator function for each read codeword; means for determining, from the computed discriminator function, an indication of the row containing that codeword; means for decoding the read codeword to obtain a corresponding information-bearing character; and means for generating a signal representative of the presence of said corresponding information-bearing character in the determined row. 6. The electro-optical computer of claim 1, wherein the processing means includes: first means for computing, from the read codeword, a t-sequence of N-1 digits whose ith digit is t.sub.i, where N is the number of marks in the read mark pattern; second means for computing the x-sequence of the read codeword; and validating means, coupled to the first and second computing means, for indicating whether the read codeword is valid. 7. The electro-optical computer of claim 6, wherein the processing means includes: means for obtaining an index number that uniquely corresponds to the computed t-sequence from the first computing means; means for converting the index number into a two-digit number in base 30, said number having a first value and a second value, the first value being greater than the second value; first means for determining, for each of the first and second values, which of a plurality of decoding modes is a currently active decoding mode; and second means for determining, for each of the first and second values, a symbol character associated with the first value or the second value. 8. The electro-optical computer of claim 1, wherein the processing means includes means for determining whether a read codeword lies in one said row or in an adjacent row; and means for computing a unique index number for the read codeword as a function of a detectable characteristic of the read codeword. 9. A robotic system for moving an object that includes a machine-readable label containing a data file structure made up of a plurality of marks having one of two different states, said file structure including a plurality of codewords selected from a set of patterns of said marks, wherein each of said codewords represents at least one information-bearing character, and at least two rows of said codewords, wherein the codewords in one of said rows are members of a first subset of said set of mark patterns, and the codewords in a second one of said rows are members of a second subset of said set of mark patterns, the first subset of said set of mark patterns being distinguishable from the second subset of said set of mark patterns, the robotic system comprising: (a) a system for generating a signal representative of the codewords in a memory, said system being capable of concurrently reading a portion of the codewords from each of the two rows by distinguishing the first and second subsets; (b) processing means, responsive to said signal, for processing the information-bearing characters in the codewords in said memory and generating control signals from the information-bearing characters; and (c) a manipulator, coupled to the processing means, for taking certain actions in response to the control signals from the processing means. 10. The robotic system of claim 9, wherein each of said codewords is selected from a subject of acceptable mark patterns such that each of the subsets includes only codewords X whose marks have widths smaller than a specified upper boundary, whose x-sequence functions f(x)=(x.sub.1 -x.sub.3 +x.sub.5 -x.sub.7) mod 9 equals 0, 3, or 6, and whose t-sequences t.sub.i =x.sub.i +x.sub.i+1 are less than 9, where x.sub.i represents the width of the ith mark of the codeword. 11. The robotic system of claim 9, wherein the codewords collectively represent information about an item attached to the label; and wherein the processing means includes means for determining from the information-bearing characters at least one action to take on said item. 12. The robotic system of claim 9, wherein the label is a waybill. 13. A hand-held reader for reading codewords comprising: a housing including a transparent portion; a beam generator located in the housing for generating a light beam to be directed onto each of the codewords through the transparent portion; a light sensitive device, responsive to the beam generator, for detecting light reflected from the codewords and converting the detected light into corresponding electrical signals; a signal control unit, responsive to the light sensitive device, for processing the electrical signals to identify the codewords; and a data file structure used for reading the codewords including: at least two rows of the codewords, one row adjacent to and beneath another row; each of said codewords representing at least one information-bearing character and being selected from among a set of detectable mark patterns; each said mark pattern comprising a pattern of marks, each said mark being representative of one of a plurality of different states; the codewords in each row being selected from a subset of said mark patterns, the subset for said row being defined by a specified rule for that row that differs from the rule specified for said adjacent row to allow portions of the codewords from each of the two rows to be read concurrently; and each said rule being a function of a detectable characteristic of the respective said marks. 14. A hand-held bar code reader according to claim 13, further comprising a lens system to direct the light beam onto the codewords. 15. A hand-held bar code reader according to claim 13, further comprising an oscillating reflector and a motor coupled to the reflector for controlling the light beam to read the codewords. 16. A hand-held bar code reader according to claim 15, further comprising a trigger for activating at least one of the beam generator and the motor. 17. A hand-held bar code reader according to claim 13, wherein the signal control unit includes a central processing unit. 