A gripping device for grasping and releasing articles by freezing and thawing water between a gripping surface and the article. The device includes a base plate, a mesh like gripping surface, a water passage to the gripping surface, a freezing element for freezing the water and bonding the gripping surface to the article and a thawing element for melting the frozen bond for releasing the article. The cooling and thawing elements use semi-circular tubing extending from the base plate and adjacent the gripping surface, through which are introduced a coolant for freezing the water and a heated liquid for thawing. Upon movement of the water via an atomizer to the gripping surface, coolant is introduced into the tubing to freeze the same. Upon freezing, the article and gripping surface become bonded. To release the article, the heated fluid is moved through the tubing so as to thaw the frozen bond.
Claims I claim: 1. A freeze hold device for gripping and releasing an article, comprising: (a) a base movable toward said article and carrying a gripping surface configured and dimensioned to engage said article; (b) a freezable liquid movable into contact with said gripping surface and said article; (c) a selectively actuable freezing means and a selectively actuable thawing means comprised of tubing located adjacent said base and adjacent said gripping surface, said tubing adapted to receive a coolant for freezing a freezable liquid and forming a frozen bond between said article and said gripping surface, said tubing adapted to receive a heated liquid for melting said bond and releasing said article from said gripping surface. 2. A freeze hold device as in claim 1 wherein said gripping surface comprises a robotic hand. 3. A freeze hold device as in claim 1 wherein said thawing means uses an ice melting substance that directly contacts said frozen bond and melts the same. 4. A freeze hold device as in claim 1, wherein said gripping surface is comprised of a hydrophilic material which covers said tubing. 5. A freeze hold device as in claim 1, wherein said tubing is comprised of a series of tubular conduits extending from said base, said conduit constructed from a material exhibiting efficient heat conductivity properties. 6. A freeze hold device as in claim 1, wherein said coolant and said heated liquid originate in separate reservoirs, said reservoirs being connected through a common valve to the same line of said tubing for liquid supply thereto. 7. A freeze hold device as in claim 1, wherein said coolant and said heated liquid originate in separate reservoirs, said reservoirs being connected through a valve to separate lines of said tubing for liquid supply thereto. 8. A freeze hold device as in claim 1 further comprising a mechanical arm having said gripping surface attached to an end thereof. 9. A freeze hold device as in claim 1, further comprising an opening through said base, said freezable liquid being adapted to enter said opening for access to said gripping surface. 10. A freeze hold device as in claim 1, further comprising an opening through said base, said freezable liquid being adapted to enter said opening for access to said gripping surface, wherein said opening has an atomizer therein through which said freezable liquid passes. 11. A freeze hold device as in claim 1, wherein said freezing and thawing means are activated by a computerized controller, said controller causing the appropriate liquid to enter said tubing for facilitating grasping and releasing. 12. A freeze hold device for gripping and releasing an article, comprising: (a) a base movable toward said article and carrying a gripping surface configured and dimensioned to engage said article; (b) a selectively actuable cold liquid and a selectively actuable hot liquid, said liquids being supplied from separate reservoirs via a common valve; (c) a freezable liquid movable into contact with said gripping surface; and (d) a passage comprised of heat conductive material for allowing said cold liquid to freeze said freezable liquid between and to said gripping surface and said article for creating a frozen bond therebetween, said passage allows said hot liquid to separate said gripping surface and said article by melting said frozen bond. 13. A freeze hold device as in claim 12, wherein said freezing and thawing means are activated by a computerized controller, said controller causing the appropriate liquid to enter said passage for facilitating grasping and releasing. 14. A freeze hold device as in claim 12 further comprising a mechanical arm having said gripping surface attached to an end thereof. 15. A freeze hold device as in claim 12, further comprising an opening through said base, said freezable liquid being adapted to enter said opening for access to said gripping surface. 16. A freeze hold device as in claim 12, further comprising an opening through said base, said freezable liquid being adapted to enter said opening for access to said gripping surface, wherein said opening has an atomizer therein through which said freezable liquid passes. 