In the manufacture of car bodies--particularly what is called the "body-in-white" (BIW), the as-welded body without the doors, engine, transmission, etc., and major sub-assemblies thereof. or other "3-D" structures, such as planes, ships, trucks, buildings and the like there is used optically visible datums (in UV, visible, and IR wavelengths) on the part which are either functional (that is used for assembly or other purposes, such as a hole) or simply for the purpose of optically guided positioning, either manually or automatically. These datums, typically holes, painted, engraved, or retroreflective targets, either by themselves, or in combination with other features of the part such as edges, are observed by optical sensor/camera systems in and/or surrounding the work area. One or more positioning means either automatic, semi-auto, or manual, are guided by the signals from the cameras to cause the requisite parts to be positioned in the proper location. The parts are then joined, such as by laser welders. Adaptive control of position can include many variables such as forces, previous history ("learning"), etc.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembly of members into 3 dimensional structures comprising the steps of: electro-optically determining the location of a plurality of datums on a first member, said datums comprising special targets, projected zone images, natural object features, or a combination thereof, determining from the location of said datums the position of said first member; positioning said first member in contact with respect to one or more second members; determining a force of contact between at least one point on said first member and said second member; and joining or otherwise assembling said first member to said second member or members. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the positions, of at least one, of said second members is also known through electro-optical determination of features related to it. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the determination of the location of datums on one of said members is made at a first location from which subsequent locations of points on the member are known. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said member location is determined by determining the location of a robot or other means of holding said member in a known location relative to said members. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein one of said members is held in a known position by a least one positioning member provided with electro optically determinable datums. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein a member part containing special datums is used in place of a normal production part and the position of special said datums are determined, and data therefrom used to calibrate said electro-optical determination. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said datum is applied at a previous operation used to make or assemble said member. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said electro-optical determination is performed using a plurality of TV Cameras 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein at least one of said datums is applied to a member as a function of other optically measured features on the same member or mating parts. 10. A method according to claim 2 wherein one of said members is firmly held in an appoximate position. 11. A method according to claim 1 and further including the step of holding at least one of said members magnetically, and de-energizing said magnetic field after the joining step. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein said first member comprises at least a portion of the frame of a car, and wherein one of said second members is an attachment device for attaching outer body panels of said car to the frame. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein a determination is also made of a relative position of each of said members to the other members. 14. A method according to claim 1 wherein successive members are sequentially positioned and joined to form an accurate assembly. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein the position of each member is adjusted to determine the best fit. 16. A method according to claim 14 wherein said positioning, step includes the determining of dimensions of one member and the location of the first member after adjustment for the dimension determined. 17. A method according to claim 1 wherein a mating section of a member is drilled, sloted, cut or otherwise modified as a function of dimension and/or locations in one or more members. 18. A method according to claim 1 wherein said positioning step includes the determining of dimensions of the first member and the optimizing of the location of said second member in consideration of the dimension of said first member. 19. A method according to claim 1 wherein positional adjustment is made if the position or the force determined is not within allowed tolerances. 20. A method according to claim 1 comprising the addtional steps of: positioning said first member at a nominal location from the electro-optical system used to determine said location, and in a second step, moving said first member so that said second members are at essentially same or nominal location. 