A remote control method of guidance for a work vehicle including a handheld control unit, an antenna/transponder placed on the periphery of the worksite, a controlling unit on the work vehicle itself. The control unit compares timing signals to subsequently control of the speed of independently powered wheels. There is a manual and automatic mode of control for the vehicle. The vehicle is positioned at a starting point by the user, and upon activation of the automatic mode, a timing pulse, either ultrasonic or electromagnetic is issued from the control unit on the vehicle. When the pulse is sensed by the transponder on the antenna, a responding pulse is transmitted. This is, in turn, received by the vehicle and thus a base time is set for the interval between the transmission of the pulse and the return signal from the transponder, the interval being indicative of the distance between them. The vehicle moves forward while continuing at intervals to send the pulse and if the secondary timing interval is larger than the base interval, the inner wheel is slowed to bring the vehicle closer. If the interval is shorter, the inner wheel is speeded up to move the vehicle away from the transponder. Thus, the vehicle describes a smooth arc about the transponder until the user sends another signal to the device, indicating that the device is to move a preset distance further away from the transponder, reset the base interval, and continue.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for remote guidance of a mobile device in a semiautomatic or manual mode comprising; a movable transponder capable of emitting electromagnetic signals and which is fixed in position during use; a handheld controller including means to switch between said semiautomatic and said manual modes; a vehicle having drive wheels comprising; drive wheels; drive means for both driving said drive wheels and steering said vehicle by driving said drive wheels at differing speeds; distance sensing means for determining the instantaneous distance between said vehicle and said transponder; and automatic drive control means in response to the handheld controller for controlling said drive means to cause said vehicle to travel a predetermined path with respect to said transponder. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said predetermined path is a circular arc centered at said fixed transponder position and said automatic drive control means acts so as to maintain said distance between said vehicle and said transponder at a constant value during motion of said vehicle. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said distance sensing means comprises; signal generation means for triggering a return pulse from said transponder, means for receiving said return pulse, means for timing the interval between said signal generation and reception of said return pulse and generating a time interval value, wherein said distance is determined by predetermined knowledge of signal propagation velocities and said time interval value. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said automatic drive control means comprises; means for storing said time interval value, comparison means for comparing said time interval value with subsequently stored time interval values and generating a comparison signal, and means for controlling said drive wheels based upon said comparison signal. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said time interval values are updated many times per second so as to provide said comparison signal in a substantially continuous manner. 6. A method of controlling a work vehicle, said work vehicle including independently driven wheels to provide a steering by driving means comprising the steps of: positioning the work vehicle at a distance from a transponder; generating a signal from said vehicle to induce a return signal from said transponder; timing the interval between the signal generation and the reception of the induced transponder signal; storing the value of the interval thus timed; moving the vehicle through equal speed driving of said independent wheels; generating a signal to induce a return signal from said transponder; timing the interval between the signal generation and the reception of the induced transponder signal, this being a dynamic interval value; comparing the stored interval value to said dynamic interval value; altering the speed of one of said wheels in accordance with the difference between said stored value and said dynamic value; whereby said vehicle moves in a generally smooth arc about said transponder, maintaining the distance set in the positioning step. 