A high-torque, low speed, positive-drive field actuator motor including a stator carrying at least one field actuator which changes in dimension responsive to application of an energy field, and at least one drive shoe movable by the dimensional changes of the field actuator to contact and move a rotor element with respect to the stator. Various embodiments of the motor are disclosed, and the rotor element may be moved linearly or arcuately.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motor, comprising: a stator member carrying a first field actuator drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field; a rotor element hinged to said stator member and rotatably movable about said hinge with respect to said stator member; a first drive shoe in contact with said first field actuator drive means, adjacent said rotor element and movable responsive to said dimensional variance of said first field actuator to effect rotational movement of said rotor element relative to said stator member; and an energy source for providing a said energy field. 2. The motor of claim 1, wherein said hinge includes a pin fixed to said stator member and said motor further includes a rotary drive element mounted on said pin, said rotary drive element includes a first drive surface located adjacent said first drive shoe, said rotary drive element is rotatable from a first position to a second position responsive to contact of said drive surface by said first drive shoe, and said rotor element has associated therewith a clamping structure for selectively clamping said rotor element to said rotary drive element. 3. The motor of claim 2, further including means for returning said rotary drive element from said second position to said first position in the absence of said first field actuator drive means dimensional variance. 4. The motor of claim 3, wherein said means for returning said rotary drive element to said first position comprises biasing means. 5. The motor of claim 3, wherein said means for returning said rotary drive element to said first position comprises a second field actuator drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field, a second drive shoe in contact with said second field actuator drive means, and a second drive surface on said rotary drive element. 6. The motor of claim 2, wherein said clamping structure includes a first field actuator clamping means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field, and a first clamping shoe in contact with said first field actuator clamping means and adjacent said rotary drive element for clamping said rotor element to said rotary drive element. 7. The motor of claim 6, further wherein said clamping structure further includes a second field actuator clamping means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field and a second clamping shoe in contact with said second field actuator clamping means for immobilizing said rotor element with respect to said stator member. 8. The motor of claim 1, wherein said first field actuator drive means comprises a piezoelectric actuator, and said energy field comprises a voltage signal. 9. The motor of claim 1, wherein said first field actuator drive means comprises an electrostrictive actuator and said energy field comprises an electric field. 10. The motor of claim 1, wherein said first field actuator drive means comprises a magnetostrictive actuator and said energy field comprises a magnetic field. 11. A motor, comprising: a stator member carrying a first field actuator drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field; a rotor element movable with respect to said stator member; a first drive shoe in contact with said first field actuator drive means and movable responsive to said dimensional variance of said first field actuator; an energy source for providing a said energy field; a rotary drive element associated with said rotor element, said rotary drive element having a drive surface adjacent said first drive shoe, said rotary drive element being rotatable from a first position to a second position responsive to contact of said drive surface by said first drive shoe; and clamping structure for selectively clamping said rotary drive element to said rotor element. 12. The motor of claim 11, wherein said clamping structure includes a first field actuator clamping means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field. 13. The motor of claim 12, wherein said rotary drive element is disposed about said rotor element, and said first field actuator clamping means is carried by said rotary drive element and oriented to release said rotary drive element from said rotor element responsive to application of a said energy field to permit mutual rotation therebetween. 14. The motor of claim 11, further including means for returning said rotary drive element from said second position to said first position in the absence of said dimensional variance of said first field actuator drive means. 15. The motor of claim 14, wherein said rotary drive element return means comprises biasing means. 16. A motor comprising: a stator member carrying a first and a second field actuator drive means, each of said drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to the application or removal of an energy field; an energy source for providing a said energy field; a rotor element movable with respect to said stator member; a first drive shoe in contact with said first and said second field actuator drive means, adjacent said rotor element and movable responsive to said dimensional variances of said first and said second field actuator drive means into and out of contact with said rotor element to effect movement thereof relative to said stator member; and biasing means for maintaining said first drive shoe in contact with at least one of said first and second field actuator drive means during said dimensional variances thereof. 17. The motor of claim 16, wherein said first drive shoe is substantially rectangular, one of said field actuator drive means is in contact with a side thereof opposite a side adjacent said rotor element and the other of said field actuator drive means is in contact with a side of said first drive shoe perpendicular to the side contacted by said one field actuator drive means. 18. The motor of claim 16, wherein said rotor element includes an arcuate surface thereon adjacent said first drive shoe and an adjacent drive shoe side is curved to substantially the same radius as said rotor surface. 19. The motor of claim 16, wherein said first and second field actuator drive means, said biasing means and said drive shoe comprise a drive assembly for moving said rotor element, and said motor includes a plurality of said drive assemblies. 20. The motor of claim 19, wherein at least one of said plurality of drive assemblies is periodically subjected to a said energy field during periods which do not entirely coincide with periods over which at least another of said plurality of drive assemblies is subjected to a said energy field. 21. The motor of claim 16, wherein said first drive shoe is substantially rectangular, one of said field actuator drive means is in contact with a side thereof substantially perpendicular to said rotor element and the other of said field actuator drive means is in contact with said rotor element through a wedge means. 22. The motor of claim 21, wherein said first and second field actuator drive means are oriented substantially parallel to said rotor element and on opposite sides thereof. 23. A motor, comprising: a stator member carrying a first field actuator drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field; a rotor element movable with respect to said stator member; a first linear reciprocable drive element in contact with said first field actuator drive means and linearly movable responsive to said dimensional variance of said first field actuator drive means; a first clamping structure for selectively clamping said rotor element to said first reciprocable drive element; and an energy source for periodically subjecting said first field actuator drive means to a said energy field. 24. The motor of claim 23, further including a linear guide means for said rotor element oriented substantially parallel to said first linear drive element. 25. The motor of claim 23, further including second field actuator drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field, and a second linear reciprocable drive element in contact therewith and oriented substantially parallel to said first linear reciprocable drive element for linear movement responsive to said dimensional variance of said second field actuator drive means, and a second clamping structure for selectively clamping said rotor element to said second reciprocable drive element. 26. The motor of claim 16, wherein said first drive shoe is substantially triangular, each of said field actuator drive means is in contact with one of the sides of said triangle, and the third side of said triangle is adjacent said rotor element. 27. A motor, comprising: a stator member carrying a first field actuator drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field; an energy source for providing a said energy field; a rotor element movable with respect to said stator member; a first drive shoe in contact with said first field actuator drive means and movable responsive to said dimensional variance of said first field actuator to effect movement thereof relative to said stator member; and a first field actuator clamping means and a first clamping shoe in contact therewith and with said first drive shoe, said first field actuator clamping means being adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field to move said first drive shoe into contact with said rotor element through said first clamping shoe. 28. The motor of claim 27, further including: a second field actuator drive means carried by said stator and adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field; a second drive shoe in contact with said second field actuator drive means and movable responsive to said dimensional variance of said second field actuator to effect movement thereof relative to said stator member; a second field actuator clamping means and a second clamping shoe in contact therewith and with said second drive shoe, said second field actuator clamping means being adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field to move said second drive shoe into contact with said rotor element through said second clamping shoe. 29. The motor of claim 11, further including a second rotary drive element associated with said rotor element and having a drive surface adjacent a second drive shoe in contact with a second field actuator drive means adapted to vary in at least one dimension responsive to application or removal of an energy field, and a second clamping structure for selectively clamping said second rotary drive element to said rotor element. 30. The motor of claim 29, wherein said rotary drive elements are disposed about said rotor element, and said clamping structures are carded by their respective rotary drive elements. 31. The motor of claim 23, wherein said first linear reciprocable drive dement is in substantially coaxial contact with said first field actuator drive means. 