The sensor comprises a structured light source (5, 6, 7) which is adjustable so as to interchange the positions of contrasting areas of the pattern it provides, a detector (1) which comprises an array of detector elements having dimensions matched to the pattern produced by the light source, an optical system (2, 8) for projecting a primary image of the light source pattern onto an object (3) that is to be sensed and for forming a secondary image on the detector (1) of the primary image thus formed on the object (3), positioning means (4) for moving at least part (2) of the optical system so as to vary the focussing of the primary image on the object (3) and processing means (12) for analyzing signals produced by the detector (1) in conjunction with information on the adjustment of the optical system (2, 8). The optical arrangement is `confocal` so that, when the primary image is in focus on the object (3), the secondary image on the detector (1) is also in focus. The processing means (12) is arranged to analyse the images received by the detector (1) with the contrasting areas thereof in the interchanged positions to determine which parts of the images are in focus and hence determine the range of the corresponding parts of the object being viewed.
Claims I claim: 1. An optical sensor comprising: a structured light source for producing a pattern of contrasting areas; a detector which comprises an array of detector elements having dimensions matched to the pattern produced by the light source; an optical system for projecting a primary image of the light source onto an object that is to be sensed and for forming a secondary image on the detector of the primary image thus formed on the object; adjustment means for adjusting at least part of the optical system to vary the focussing of the primary image on the object, such that when the primary image is in focus on the object, the secondary image on the detector is also in focus; and processing means for analyzing signals produced by the detector in conjunction with information on the adjustment of the optical system; wherein the structured light source is adjustable to interchange at least two positions of contrasting areas of the pattern produced by the light source and in that the processing means is arranged to analyze the secondary images received by the detector elements with the contrasting areas in the interchanged positions to determine those parts of the secondary images which are in focus on the detector and thereby determine the range of corresponding parts of the object which are thus in focus. 2. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1 in which the structured light source is arranged to produce a pattern of light and dark areas and adjustment means are provided for moving the structured light source to interchange the positions of the light and dark areas. 3. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1 in which the structured light source comprises a plurality of elements arranged in a pattern which can be alternately switched on and off to interchange the positions of contrasting areas of the primary and secondary images formed on the object and on the detector. 4. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1 in which the structured light source comprises a regular pattern having a repeat distance which is n times the dimensions of the detector elements, where n is an even integer. 5. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1 in which the processing means is arranged to analyze signals representing two intensities of illumination received by each detector element when the image thereon is in the two respective positions and to determine those areas of the detector for which the difference between the two signals is relatively high and thus indicate the parts of the secondary image which are in focus on the detector. 6. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1 in which the detector comprises a 2-dimensional array of detector elements and the structured light source comprises a corresponding 2-dimensional pattern of contrasting areas and in which the processing means is arranged to form a 2-dimensional image of those parts of the object which are in focus for a given focussing adjustment of the optical system and to build up a 3-dimensional model of the object from a plurality of said 2-dimensional images as the focussing adjustment of the optical system is varied. 7. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1 in which the detector comprises a linear array of detector elements and the structured light source comprises a corresponding linear pattern of light and dark areas and in which the processing means is arranged to build up a 2-dimensional image of a cross-section of the object being sensed by detecting those parts of the secondary image which are in focus on the detector as the focussing adjustment of the optical system is varied. 8. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 1 in which the detector comprises a structured point detector and the structured light source comprises a structured point source and in which the processing means is arranged to determine the range of an object being sensed by detecting when the structure of the image formed on the detector, as the focussing adjustment of the optical system is varied, corresponds to the pattern of the structured light source. 9. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 7 including scanning means for scanning the image produced by the light source relative to the object being sensed whereby at least one additional dimension may be added to the image the sensor is able to form of the object. 10. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 8 including scanning means for scanning the image produced by the light source relative to the object being sensed whereby at least one additional dimension may be added to the image the sensor is able to form of the object. 11. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 2 in which the pattern of light and dark areas comprises light and dark bands. 12. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 2 in which the pattern of light and dark areas comprises a checker-board pattern. 13. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 4 in which n=2. 14. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 8 in which the structured point detector is in the form of a quadrant sensor and the correspondingly structured point source is in the form of a two-by-two checker-board pattern. 15. An optical sensor as claimed in claim 8 in which the structured point detector is in the form of a two element sensor and the correspondingly structured point source is in the form of a two element pattern. 16. A method of determining the range of at least part of an object being viewed using an optical sensor comprising: a structured light source which produces a pattern of contrasting areas; a detector which comprises an array of detector elements having dimensions matched to the pattern produced by the light source; an optical system which projects a primary image of the light source onto an object that is to be sensed and forms a secondary image on the detector of the primary image thus formed on the object; adjustment means which adjusts at least part of the optical system to vary the focussing of the primary image on the object such that when the primary image is in focus on the object, the secondary image on the detector is also in focus; and processing means which analyzes signals produced by the detector in conjunction with information on the adjustment of the optical system; said method including the steps of: (a) adjusting the structured light source to interchange the positions of contrasting areas of the pattern produced by the light source; (b) analyzing the secondary images received by the detector elements with the contrasting areas in the interchanged positions to determine those parts of the secondary images which are in focus on the detector; and (c) determining the range of corresponding parts of the object which are thus in focus. 