A method for assembling a part, such as a spool valve into a bore of a body, such as a transmission valve body. A vacuum means creates suction within the bore in the direction of insertion of the spool valve. A gripper tool attached to a robotic arm supports the spool valve with a light vacuum pressure and maneuvers the spool valve, aligning it sufficiently close to allow the suction in the bore and gravity to pull the spool valve free of the suction of the gripper tool and into the bore.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of assembling a spool valve into a valve bore of an vehicle transmission body comprising: aligning the spool valve immediately outside of the valve bore oriented substantially concentric with the valve bore; beginning vacuum suction in the valve bore in the direction of insertion of the spool valve; and receiving the spool valve into the valve bore. 2. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the steps of supporting the spool valve by a suction mechanism and pulling the spool valve free of the suction mechanism prior to receiving the spool valve into the bore. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of supporting the spool valve comprises sucking up the spool valve on a pilot gripper tool and maneuvering the spool valve with the pilot gripper tool. 4. A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of supporting the spool valve comprises picking up the spool valve with a V-block gripper tool and maneuvering the spool valve with the V-block gripper tool. 5. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of twisting the spool valve back-and-forth until the spool valve is received into the valve bore. 6. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of moving the spool valve in a spiral motion about a central longitudinal axis of the spool valve of progressively increasing diameter until the spool valve is received into the valve bore. 7. A method according to claim 1 further comprising evacuating foreign matter from the valve bore prior to receiving the spool valve into the bore. 