A floating-type or compliant follower system for use in conjunction with a robotic or automated workpiece finishing apparatus. The follower device in a preferred embodiment cooperates with the tool to create a contact force with the workpiece which can be maintained constant with a high degree of accuracy and with a high responsiveness. The follower device in a preferred embodiment includes a constant-torque rotatable electric motor, such as a servo motor, which torque remains constant even when the motor is held in a stall condition by an external load or is driven backwards by the load. The motor output is drivingly coupled through a rotary-to-linear drive mechanism to a follower which is coupled to a driving tool such as a belt grinder. Energization of the follower motor causes the follower to act against the tool to maintain a constant force between the tool and workpiece, with the motor rotor being maintained substantially in a stall condition, but being capable of oscillating back and forth while maintaining a substantially constant torque to maintain a constant contact force.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A compliant follower device for maintaining constant contact force between a workpiece member and a tool member which are relatively movable with respect to one another, said follower device comprising reciprocally movable compliant follower means floatingly engaged with one of said workpiece and tool members for normally exerting a constant force thereagainst which urges said one member in a direction for constant force contact with the other member, and electric motor means drivingly coupled to said follower means for exerting a constant force on said follower means even as said follower means floatingly reciprocates so as to continually maintain said one member in constant force contact with said other member, said motor means including a movable output member which is drivingly coupled to said follower means and is subjected to constant force irrespective of compliant back-and-forth movement thereof so long as electric current supplied to said motor means remains constant. 2. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein said motor means comprises a rotary servo motor having an output shaft which is drivingly coupled to said follower means through a rotary-to-linear motion converting mechanism which creates a positive driving relationship between said output shaft and said follower means and which can be back driven by the members, and said follower means including an elongate follower member supported for generally linear reciprocal movement. 3. An arrangement according to claim 2, wherein said rotary servo motor maintains a constant output torque for a constant current and permits the output torque to be changed linearly with respect to current as applied to the servo motor. 4. An arrangement according to claim 3, wherein said follower means cooperates directly with said tool member, a tool driving motor drivingly coupled to said tool member for effecting rotation thereof, and feedback control means for changing the current as applied to the servo motor in response to change in the contact force between the tool and workpiece members to compensate for inertial effects and the like as the tool member moves back and forth so as to maintain the contact force constant. 5. In a finishing tool assembly for permitting finishing of a surface on a workpiece, said finishing tool assembly including a rotatable tool adapted for contact with a, workpiece surface to effect finishing thereof, a tool-driving motor for drivingly rotating the tool, and a compliant follower device cooperating with the tool for enabling back-and-forth floating movement of the tool according to the surface of the workpiece while maintaining contact between the workpiece and tool, the improvement wherein said compliant follower device includes a follower member which is engaged with the tool for normally urging the tool into engagement with the surface of the workpiece, the follower member being floatingly supported for generally back-and-forth movement in a direction which extends transverse with respect to the surface of the workpiece, a rotary-to-linear motion and force transfer device coupled to said follower member, said motion transfer device being capable of being movably back driven by the follower member due to the tool reacting against the workpiece surface, and constant-torque rotary motor means having a rotary output coupled to the rotary-to-linear transfer device for applying constant force to said follower member irrespective of reciprocating back-and-forth movement thereof. 6. An assembly according to claim 5, wherein said rotary motor means comprises a direct current servo motor which is operable for maintaining a constant torque on the output when the output is maintained in a stall condition or is reversely driven by the follower member. 7. An assembly according to claim 6, wherein the follower member is supported so as to extend and be reciprocally movable in a vertical direction. 8. An assembly according to claim 7, including feedback control means for sensing load changes at the contact between the tool and workpiece and for adjusting the current to the rotary motor means to maintain a substantially constant contact force between the tool and workpiece. 9. An assembly according to claim 8, wherein the control means senses a change in the load imposed on the tool-driving motor. 10. An assembly according to claim 7, wherein the tool comprises a grinding belt supported on and extending between a pair of belt-supporting pulleys, one of said belt-supporting pulleys being driven by the tool-driving motor, and the workpiece being engageable with the grinding belt. 