A self-adjusting bearing assembly comprising a rod end bearing having a ball member and a connector member, and a bearing seat component having at least two bearing seat members arranged to receive the ball member therebetween. The ball member has a substantially spherical segment providing an outer bearing surface, and the bearing seat members include spherically-shaped inner bearing surfaces for engaging the outer bearing surface of the ball member. The connector member extends through a conical passage formed by the bearing seat members, and this passage restricts pivotal movement of the rod end bearing. A slack removal mechanism urges a movable one of the bearing seat members toward the ball member; and comprises a pressure chamber adjacent a pressure surface of the movable bearing seat member, and a fitting for pressurizing this chamber with a fluid. The assembly may include a fitting for feeding lubricant to the bearing surfaces, and a fitting for preventing excessive chamber pressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-adjusting bearing assembly, comprising: bearing means comprising a ball member and a connector member, said ball member having an outer bearing surface shaped substantially as a segment of a sphere and extending about at least a central portion of the ball member; housing means defining a bearing chamber; bearing seat means comprising at least two opposing bearing seat members arranged in said bearing chamber to define therebetween a space for receiving said ball member, each of said bearing seat members having an inner bearing surface conforming substantially to the shape of the outer bearing surface of said ball member and arranged to engage the outer bearing surface of said ball member while allowing said ball member to rotate, at least one of said bearing seat members being movable in said bearing chamber, and said connector member extending through a passage formed at least in part by said housing; and adjusting means for urging said movable bearing seat member toward said ball member such that the inner bearing surfaces of said seat members engage the outer bearing surface of said ball member, said adjusting means comprising a pressure chamber in said housing means in fluid communication with a pressure surface of said movable bearing seat member, and means for pressurizing said pressure chamber with a fluid, said pressure surface being on an opposite side of said movable bearing seat member from said ball member, and said movable bearing seat member being forced against said ball member when said pressure chamber is pressurized by said fluid. 2. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1, wherein said pressure chamber is arranged in said housing adjacent to said bearing chamber, and said movable bearing seat member has a guiding surface for contacting a guiding surface of said bearing chamber. 3. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1, wherein said pressurizing means comprises an inlet passage in fluid communication with the pressure chamber in said housing means, and valve means in said inlet passage for permitting said fluid to be introduced into said pressure chamber and for preventing said introduced fluid from escaping from said pressure chamber through said inlet passage. 4. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1, wherein said movable bearing seat member comprises fitting means for permitting said fluid to be introduced from said pressure chamber through said movable bearing seat member into an interface between the inner bearing surface of said movable bearing seat member and the outer bearing surface of said ball member when said fluid pressure in said pressure chamber is greater than a predetermined value. 5. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 4, wherein said fluid is a lubricating substance and a groove is formed in a portion of the inner bearing surface of each of said bearing seat members, wherein said fitting means is received in a passage formed in said movable bearing seat member, and wherein the groove in said movable member bearing surface intersects said movable member passage, said groove providing a channel for distributing said lubricating substance between said outer bearing surface of the ball member and said inner bearing surfaces of the bearing seat members. 6. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1, wherein the other of said bearing seat members is fixed in position within said housing means, and said movable bearing seat member is slidable within the bearing chamber of said housing means in a movement direction; wherein the inner bearing surface of said movable bearing seat member is adjacent said ball member on a side of said ball member substantially opposite the inner bearing surface of said fixed bearing seat member; and wherein said movable and fixed bearing seat members are separated by a slot, said slot extending transversely to said movement direction to provide a space between said bearing seat members to allow said movable bearing seat member to move toward said fixed bearing seat member in response to the pressure of fluid in said pressure chamber and the wearing of said bearing surfaces. 7. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 6, wherein said slot is defined by an edge of said movable bearing seat member facing a corresponding edge of said fixed bearing seat member; wherein each of said bearing seat members has a guide surface intersecting its said edge; and wherein one of said guide surfaces is formed by a lateral shift in one direction of said edge of said movable bearing seat member, and the other of said guide surfaces is formed by a lateral shift in the opposite direction of said edge of said fixed bearing seat member, said guide surfaces engaging each other to guide said movable bearing seat member as said bearing surfaces on said ball member and on said bearing seat members wear. 8. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1 further comprising at least one resilient sealing member disposed between said movable bearing seat member and said housing means to prevent pressurized fluid from flowing out of said pressure chamber through an interface between said movable bearing seat member and said housing means. 9. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1, wherein said housing means is provided by an end portion of a tie rod component of a vehicle steering assembly, and said connector member extends through an opening formed in a wall of said tie rod end portion; wherein said self-adjusting bearing assembly further comprises a boot member surrounding said connector member for sealing said wall opening, and a capnut; wherein said capnut comprises an external screw thread for engaging an internal screw thread within a distal section of said bearing chamber, and an inner stop surface for abutting an opposing surface of the other of said bearing seat members when said screw threads are engaged; and wherein said connector member includes means for connecting a distal end portion thereof to another component of said steering assembly. 10. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1, wherein the bearing surfaces of said bearing seat members contact at least one-half of the surface area of said ball member. 11. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1, wherein a portion of said connector member passage is formed by said bearing seat members, and wherein said passage portion is between said bearing seat members and becomes wider as the distance from said ball member increases, said passage portion restricting pivotal movement of said connector to limit the rotation of said ball member. 12. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1 further comprising fitting means for introducing a lubricant into an interface between the bearing surface of said ball member and the bearing surfaces of said seat members. 13. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 12 further comprising pressure relief means for preventing fluid pressure in said pressure chamber from exceeding a predetermined value. 14. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 13, wherein said pressure relief means includes means for adjusting said predetermined value. 15. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 1 further comprising pressure relief means for preventing fluid pressure in said pressure chamber from exceeding a predetermined value. 16. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 15, wherein said pressure relief means includes means for adjusting said predetermined value. 17. A self-adjusting bearing assembly, comprising: a ball member fixed to a connector member, said ball member having an outer bearing surface shaped substantially as a segment of a sphere and extending about at least a central portion of the ball member; a housing defining a bearing chamber; two opposing bearing seat members arranged in said bearing chamber to define therebetween a space for receiving said ball member, each of said bearing seat members having an inner bearing surface conforming substantially to the shape of the outer bearing surface of said ball member and arranged to engage the outer bearing surface of said ball member while allowing said ball member to rotate, at least one of said bearing seat members being movable in said bearing chamber, and said connector member extending through a passage formed at least in part by said housing; a pressure chamber in said housing in fluid communication with a pressure surface of said movable bearing seat member, said pressure surface being on an opposite side of said movable bearing seat member from said ball member; and, a fitting in fluid communication with said pressure chamber and comprising a valve for pressurizing said pressure chamber with a pressurized fluid, said at least one movable bearing seat member being urged toward said ball member and the inner bearing surfaces of said seat members engaging the outer bearing surface of said ball member in response to said chamber pressure. 18. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 17, wherein said fitting is received in an inlet passage formed in said housing, and said valve is a check valve permitting said fluid to be introduced into said pressure chamber while preventing said introduced fluid from escaping from said pressure chamber through said inlet passage. 19. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 17 further comprising a second fitting for permitting said fluid to be introduced from said pressure chamber through said movable bearing seat member into an interface between the inner bearing surface of said movable bearing seat member and the outer bearing surface of said ball member when said chamber pressure is greater than a predetermined value. 20. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 19, wherein said fluid is a lubricating substance and a groove is formed in a portion of the inner bearing surface of each of said bearing seat members, wherein said second fitting is received in a passage formed in said movable bearing seat member, and wherein the groove in said movable member bearing surface intersects said movable member passage, said grooves providing a channel for distributing said lubricating substance between said outer bearing surface of the ball member and said inner bearing surfaces of the bearing seat members. 21. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 17, wherein the other of said bearing seat members is fixed in position within said housing, and said movable bearing seat member is slidable within the bearing chamber of said housing in a movement direction; wherein the inner bearing surface of said movable bearing seat member is adjacent said ball member on a side of said ball member substantially opposite the inner bearing surface of said fixed bearing seat member; and wherein said movable and fixed bearing seat members are separated by a slot, said slot extending transversely to said movement direction to provide a space between said bearing seat members to allow said movable bearing seat member to move toward said fixed bearing seat member in response to said chamber pressure and the wearing of said bearing surfaces. 22. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 21, wherein each of said bearing seat members has a guide surface extending in the movement direction of said movable bearing seat member, said guide surfaces engaging each other to guide said movable bearing seat member as the bearing surfaces on said ball member and on said bearing seat members wear. 23. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 17, wherein said housing is provided by an end portion of a tie rod component of a vehicle steering assembly, and said connector member extends through an opening formed in a wall of said tie rod end portion; wherein said self-adjusting bearing assembly further comprises a boot member surrounding said connector member for sealing said wall opening, and a capnut; wherein said capnut comprises an external screw thread for engaging an internal screw thread within a distal section of said bearing chamber, and an inner stop surface for abutting an opposing surface of the other of said bearing seat members when said screw threads are engaged; and wherein said connector member includes a connector element for connecting a distal end portion thereof to another component of said steering assembly. 24. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 17, wherein a portion of said connector member passage is formed by said bearing seat members, and wherein said passage portion is between said bearing seat members and becomes wider as the distance from said ball member increases, said passage portion restricting pivotal movement of said connector to limit the rotation of said ball member. 25. A self-adjusting bearing assembly according to claim 17 further comprising a pressure relief valve for preventing fluid pressure in said pressure chamber from exceeding a predetermined value, said pressure relief valve including a mechanism for adjusting said predetermined value. 