A seven-degree-of-freedom robot arm with a six-degree-of-freedom end effector is controlled by a processor employing a 6-by-7 Jacobian matrix for defining location and orientation of the end effector in terms of the rotation angles of the joints, a 1 (or more)-by-7 Jacobian matrix for defining 1 (or more) user-specified kinematic functions constraining location or movement of selected portions of the arm in terms of the joint angles, the processor combining the two Jacobian matrices to produce an augmented 7 (or more)-by-7 Jacobian matrix, the processor effecting control by computing in accordance with forward kinematics from the augmented 7-by-7 Jacobian matrix and from the seven joint angles of the arm a set of seven desired joint angles for transmittal to the joint servo loops of the arms. One of the kinematic functions constrains the orientation of the elbow plane of the arm. Another one of the kinematic functions minimizing a sum of gravitational torques on the joints. Still another one of the kinematic functions constrains the location of the arm to perform collision avoidance. Generically, one of the kinematic functions minimizes a sum of selected mechanical parameters of at least some of the joints associated with weighting coefficients which may be changed during arm movement. The mechanical parameters may be velocity errors or position errors or gravity torques associated with individual joints.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a robot arm, said robot arm comprising n joints, joint angle sensor means connected to each of said joints, joint servo loop means connected to each of said joints, and two ends comprising a fixed pedestal end and a movable hand end, each of said joints having a joint angle specifying a rotational orientation of said joint, said hand end having m degrees of freedom of movement, wherein m is less than n whereby said robot arm characterized by a degree of redundancy, n-m, said method comprising: first defining a first m-by-n matrix for defining location and orientation of said hand end in terms of said rotation angles of said joints; second defining a second r-by-n matrix for defining r user-specified kinematic functions in terms of said joint angles, wherein r is a positive integer exceeding the degree of redundancy of said robot arm; combining said first and second matrices to produce an augmented m+r-by-n matrix; and computing in accordance with forward kinematics from said augmented m+r-by-n matrix and from the joint angles sensed by said joint angle sensor means a set of n desired joint angles and transmitting said set of n desired joint angles to said joint servo loop means to control the robot arm. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein each of said kinematic functions defines a constraint in one of (a) location, (b) orientation and (c) configuration of a specified portion of said arm. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said computing operates in successive iterations, said joint angles sensed by said joint angle sensor means correspond to a current one of said iterations and said set of n desired joint angles correspond to a next one of said iterations. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said first m-by-n matrix, second r-by-n matrix and augmented m+r-by-n matrix comprise Jacobian matrices. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said robot arm has an anthropomorthic structure and one of said joints is an elbow joint, wherein a pair of links of said arm joined together by said elbow joint define an elbow plane of said arm, and wherein one of said kinematic functions comprises means for defining an orientation of said elbow plane. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein one of said kinematic functions minimizes a sum of gravitational torques on at least some of said joints. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of said kinematic functions constrains location of said arm. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of said kinematic functions minimizes a sum of selected mechanical parameters of at least some of said joints. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said parameters comprising different weighting coefficients for different ones of said joints. 10. The method of claim 9 further changing said weighting coefficients during movement of said arm. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein one of said mechanical parameters comprises velocity errors of said joints with respect to desired velocities. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein one of said mechanical parameters comprises joint angle errors with respect to desired joint angles. 13. The method of claim 5 wherein: a second one of said kinematic functions minimizes a sum of gravitational torques on at least some of said joints; a third one of said kinematic functions constrains location of said arm; and a fourth one of said kinematic functions minimizes a sum of selected mechanical parameters of at least some of said joints. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of said user-specified functions corresponds to one of: i. joint locking; ii. joint limit avoidance; iii. manipulability maximization. 15. A method of controlling a robot arm, said robot arm comprising n joints, joint angle sensor means connected to each of said joints, joint servo loop means connected to each of said joints, and two ends comprising a fixed pedestal end and a movable hand end, each of said joints having a joint angle specifying a rotational orientation of said joint, said hand end having m degrees of freedom of movement, wherein m is less than n whereby said robot arm characterized by a degree of redundancy, n-m, said method comprising: first defining a first m-by-n matrix for defining location and orientation of said hand end in terms of said rotation angles of said joints; second defining a second r-by-n matrix for defining r user-specified kinematic functions in terms of said joint angles, wherein r is a positive integer exceeding the degree of redundancy of said robot arm, and wherein at least one of said kinematic functions minimizes a sum of selected mechanical parameters of at least some of said joints and said selected mechanical parameters include different weighting coefficients for different ones of said joints, said weighting coefficients being able to be changed during movement of said arm; combining said first and second matrices to produce an augmented m+r-by-n matrix; and computing in accordance with forward kinematics from said augmented m+r-by-n matrix and from the joint angles sensed by said joint angle sensor means a set of n desired joint angles and transmitting said set of n desired joint angles to said joint servo loop means to control the robot arm. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said computing operates in successive iterations, said joint angles sensed by said joint angle sensor means correspond to a current one of said iterations and said set of n desired joint angles correspond to a next one of said iterations. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said first m-by-n matrix, second r-by-n matrix and augmented m+r-by-n matrix comprise Jacobian matrices. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein said mechanical parameters comprise velocity errors of said joints with respect to desired velocities. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein said mechanical parameters comprise joint angle errors with respect to desired joint angles. 20. A method of controlling a robot arm, said robot arm comprising n joints, joint angle sensor means connected to each of said joints, joint servo loop means connected to each of said joints, and two ends comprising a fixed pedestal end and a movable hand end, each of said joints having a joint angle specifying a rotational orientation of said joint, said hand end having m degrees of freedom of movement, wherein m is less than n whereby said robot arm characterized by a degree of redundancy, n-m, said method comprising: first defining a first m-by-n matrix for defining location and orientation of said hand end in terms of said rotation angles of said joints; second defining a second r-by-n matrix for defining r user-specified kinematic functions in terms of said joint angles, wherein r is a positive integer exceeding the degree of redundancy of said robot arm, and wherein at least one of said kinematic functions corresponds to one of, i. minimizing a sum of gravitational torques on at least some of said joints, ii. minimizing a sum of selected mechanical parameters of at least some of said joints, said parameters comprising velocity errors of said joints with respect to desired velocities, and iii. minimizing a sum of selected mechanical parameters of at least some of said joints, said parameters comprising joint angle errors with respect to desired joint angles; combining said first and second matrices to produce an augmented m+r-by-n matrix; and computing in accordance with forward kinematics from said augmented m+r-by-n matrix and from the joint angles sensed by said joint angle sensor means a set of n desired joint angles and transmitting said set of n desired joint angles to said joint servo loop means to control the robot arm. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said computing operates in successive iterations, said joint angles sensed by said joint angle sensor means correspond to a current one of said iterations and said set of n desired joint angles correspond to a next one of said iterations. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said first m-by-n matrix, second r-by-n matrix and augmented m+r-by-n matrix comprise Jacobian matrices. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein said selected mechanical parameters further include different weighting coefficients for different ones of said joints. 24. The method of claim 23 further changing said weighting coefficients during movement of said arm. 