An automated storage library includes a robotic picker which moves linearly between linear and/or carousel storage shelves to transport data storage cassettes between the shelves and a data transfer device. The picker arm can swing in a vertical arc to access the tape stores on either side of its linear path. The arm also has at least one rotatable wrist and a pair of end effectors. A data storage cassette may be extracted from a data transfer device, the wrist rotated 180.degree., and a new cassette inserted. This reduces the number of times the robot has to visit the tape stores. The vertical arc movement of the picker arm provides for accurate orientation of the effectors with respect to the shelves and the data transfer devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated storage library comprising: a plurality of storage cells for storing data storage cassettes at an oblique angle with respect to the horizontal plane; one or more data transfer devices for transferring data between the data storage cassettes and a host processor; a robotic picker for transporting data storage cassettes between the storage cells and one of the data transfer devices, the robotic picker comprising: a carriage coupled to a drive mechanism for moving the carriage between the storage cells and one of the data transfer devices along a substantially horizontal axis; an arm attached to the carriage so as to be rotatable about the horizontal axis; means for moving the arm in a substantially vertical direction along the carriage; and a first pair of robotic effectors mounted at one end of the arm for gripping data storage cassettes, the effectors being rotatable about an axis substantially parallel to the arm, wherein the robotic effectors are presented at the oblique angle for removal and placement of data storage cassettes in the cells by means of an arcuate movement and a linear movement of the arm. 2. An automated storage library as in claim 1 further comprising a second pair of robotic effectors mounted at the opposite end of the arm from the first pair, both pairs of effectors being substantially equidistant from the horizontal axis. 3. An automated storage library as in claim 2 wherein the automated storage library is enclosed within a housing enclosure and the robotic picker is mounted on a substantially horizontal axis higher than the storage cells in the enclosure. 4. An automated storage library as in claim 3 wherein movement of the drive mechanism along the substantially horizontal axis and movement of the arm along the carriage is chain driven. 5. An automated storage library as in claim 2 wherein movement of the drive mechanism along the substantially horizontal axis and movement of the arm along the carriage is chain driven. 6. An automated storage library as in of claim 1 wherein the automated storage library is enclosed within a housing enclosure and the robotic picker is mounted on a substantially horizontal axis higher than the storage cells in the enclosure. 7. An automated storage library as in claim 6 wherein movement of the drive mechanism along the substantially horizontal axis and movement of the arm along the carriage is chain driven. 8. An automated storage library as in claim 1 wherein movement of the drive mechanism along the substantially horizontal axis and movement of the arm along the carriage is chain driven. 