A wire brake for a robotic welding torch includes an adapter which is attached to the upper end of the welding torch and which includes an adapter bore through which the wire electrode is inserted. A cylinder body is threadably attached to the adapter and includes a reciprocating piston having a piston stem which is movable into a brake position engaging the wire electrode so as to hold the wire electrode against axial movement within the adapter bore.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wire brake for use with a robotically controlled elongated torch, said torch having a longitudinal axis, an upper end, a lower end and a longitudinal bore extending from said upper end to said lower end, an electrode wire extending through said longitudinal bore and having an upper wire end protruding from said upper end of said torch and a lower wire end protruding from said lower end of said torch, said upper end of said torch having an outer boundary surrounding and spaced radially outwardly from said longitudinal axis; first securing means mounted on said upper end of said torch, said wire brake comprising: an elongated adapter having a second securing means attachable to said first securing means on said upper end of said torch, said adapter having an adapter bore extending therethrough, said adapter bore being positioned to register with and form a continuation of said upper end of said longitudinal bore in said torch when said first and second securing means are attached to one another; said adapter having a brake bore providing communication from outside said adapter to said adapter bore; a cylinder body having a cylinder bore therein and having third securing means for securing said cylinder body to said adapter with said cylinder bore in communication with said adapter bore; a piston mounted within said cylinder bore for reciprocating movement therein between a release position and a brake position; a brake member movable with said piston and protruding at least partially into said adapter bore when said piston is in said brake position. 2. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said adapter and said cylinder body both are within said outer boundary of said torch. 3. A wire brake according to claim 2 and further comprising a cylindrical housing surrounding said adapter and said cylinder body, said cylindrical housing being attached to said upper end of said torch. 4. A wire brake according to claim 3 wherein said cylindrical housing includes an outer cylindrical surface which is coincident with or located radially inwardly from said outer boundary of said torch. 5. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein spring means yieldably urge said piston toward said release position. 6. A wire brake according to claim 5 wherein said cylinder body includes fluid inlet means for introducing pressurized fluid into said cylinder bore for causing said piston to move from said release position to said lock position. 7. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said brake member includes a distal end having a cupped surface facing said adapter bore. 8. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said third securing means includes a cylindrical cap surface with first annular groove extending therearound, said cap surface and said first annular groove fitting within said cylinder bore of said cylinder body, said cylinder bore having a cylindrical bore surface with a second annular groove therein, said first and second annular grooves being registered with one another, a retaining wire surrounding said cap surface and residing at least partially in said registered first and second annular grooves to secure said cap surface within said cylinder bore. 9. A wire brake according to claim 8 wherein at least one opening is provided in said cylinder body and provides communication to said second annular groove within said cylindrical bore surface for permitting removal of said retaining wire from said registered first and second annular grooves. 10. The wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said brake member engages said electrode wire when said piston is in said brake position such that said wire is clamped between said brake member and said adapter bore. 11. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said brake member causes said electrode wire to press against said adapter bore when said piston is in said brake position. 12. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said brake member exerts a radial force on said electrode wire when said piston is in said brake position causing said electrode wire to deflect radially until said electrode wire makes contact with said adapter bore. 13. A wire brake according to claim 12 wherein said electrode wire is clamped between said brake member and said adapter bore when said piston is in said brake position. 14. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said wire brake is removably coupled to said torch. 15. A wire brake according to claim 1 wherein said piston and said cylinder bore are disposed outside of said elongated adapter. 16. In combination: an elongated torch having a longitudinal axis, an upper end, a lower end, and a longitudinal bore extending from said upper end to said lower end; first securing means mounted on said upper end of said torch; an elongated adapter having a second securing means attachable to said first securing means on said upper end of said torch, said adapter having an adapter bore extending therethrough, said adapter bore being positioned to register with and form a continuation of said upper end of said longitudinal bore in said torch when said first and second securing means are attached to one another; said adapter having a brake bore providing communication from outside said adapter to said adapter bore; a cylinder body having a cylinder bore therein and having third securing means for securing said cylinder body to said adapter with said cylinder bore in communication with said adapter bore; a piston mounted within said cylinder bore for reciprocating movement therein between a release position and a brake position; a brake member movable with said piston and protruding at least partially into said adpater bore when said piston is in said brake position. an electrode wire extending through said brake bore of said adapter and said longitudinal bore of said torch; wire feed means engaging said electrode wire for moving said electrode wire longitudinally through said brake bore and said longitudinal bore of said torch, said feed means gripping said electrode wire with a predetermined gripping force; said brake member engaging said electrode wire when said piston is in said brake position with sufficient force to overcome said gripping force of said wire feed means during movement of said torch relative to said feed means. 17. A method of securely holding an electrode wire to a welding torch having a longitudinal axis, an upper end, a lower end, a longitudinal bore extending from said upper end to said lower end, an electrode wire extending through said longitudinal bore, a first securing means mounted on said upper end of said torch, said method comprising the steps of: providing an elongated adapter having a second securing means attachable to said first securing means, said adapter having an adapter bore extending therethrough, said adapter bore being positioned to register with and form a continuation of said longitudinal bore; providing a cylinder body having a cylinder bore therein, said cylinder body coupled to said adapter, said cylinder bore being in communication with said adapter bore; providing a piston disposed within said cylinder bore for reciprocating movement therein between a release position and a brake position; providing a brake member movable with said piston and protruding at least partially into said adapter bore when said piston is in said brake position; and forcing said piston into said brake position causing said brake member to engage said electrode wire clamping said electrode wire between said brake member and said adapter bore. 