In a system including clock pulse data such as a network for sequencing music or multi-media data, a man/machine interface is provided which can be driven either by the operator or by a motor and transmission system. The man/machine interface contains encoders for producing tempo clock data which can be varied by the operator. Based on the comparison of the output signals of the encoders, the motor is accelerated or decelerated to eliminate the difference between the outputs of the encoders. The man/machine interface can be operated in the slave mode in which tempo clock data generated in the network is used to control the speed of operation of the man/machine interface or in the master mode when the man/machine interface determines the timing. The man/machine interface is preferably a foot-pedal.
Claims I claim: 1. Man/machine interface comprising: pedal means for setting a driving speed of a means for generating a sequence of electrical timing pulses; means for maintaining the set driving speed of said generating means; said pedal means including a first rotating shaft; said generating means including an encoder attached to said shaft; said maintaining means including a motor operatively connected to said shaft and a motor control circuit for controlling the speed of said motor, said motor control circuit including differentiating means for determining a rate of change in the rotational speed of said first shaft and outputting a signal in accordance therewith, said motor control circuit driving said motor in accordance with said signal; and said differentiating means including a second shaft connected to the pedal means and operatively connected to the first shaft via elastic transmission means, and a potentiometer connected to said elastic transmission means so that the potentiometer outputs said signal in accordance with relative positions of the first and second shafts. 2. Man/machine interface according to claim 1, wherein said means for maintaining includes a flywheel attached to said first shaft. 3. Man/machine interface comprising: pedal means for setting a driving speed of a means for generating a sequence of electrical timing pulses; means for maintaining the set driving speed of said generating means; said pedal means including a first rotating shaft; said generating means including an encoder attached to said shaft; said maintaining means including a motor operatively connected to said shaft and a motor control circuit for controlling the speed of said motor, said motor control circuit including differentiating means for determining a rate of change in the rotational speed of said first shaft and outputting a signal in accordance therewith, said motor control circuit driving said motor in accordance with said signal; and said differentiating means including a second shaft connected to said pedal means and operatively connected to said first shaft via elastic transmission means, a second encoder connected to said second shaft and said signal being generated by a comparison circuit for comparing the outputs of said first and second encoders. 4. Man/machine interface for use with network means for generating a data stream including external electrical timing pulses comprising: pedal means; and driving means adapted to drive said pedal means in accordance with said external electrical timing pulses. 5. Man/machine interface according to claim 4, wherein extracting means are provided to extract said external electrical timing pulses from said data stream. 6. Man/machine interface according to claim 1 or 5, wherein said pedal means includes a rotating shift and an encoder attached thereto. 7. Man/machine interface according to claim 6, wherein said driving means includes a control circuit for comparing the output of said encoder with said external electrical timing pulses and outputting a signal in accordance with the comparison and said driving means is driven in accordance with said signal. 8. Man/machine interface according to claim 6, further comprising means for editing the extracted external electrical timing pulses, said editing being carried out in accordance with the output from said encoder, and means for merging the edited extracted external electrical timing pulses with said data stream. 9. Multimedia network comprising at least one man/machine interface in accordance with any one of the claims, 1 to 8. 