An apparatus which accurately maps and detects contaminants within interior surfaces is provided. The apparatus finds use in supporting decontamination operations by providing on-site chemical analyses defining the condition of contaminated areas and monitoring the progress of clean-up operations. An optical vision system is used to accurately map the surface to be investigated or treated as a reference. Analytical probes are used to sample the mapped surface to detect inorganic and organic contaminants in situ. Automated controls which manipulate the analytical probes and high speed analytical equipment, such as a high speed gas chromatograph, are optionally used to take large numbers of samples quickly and remotely. The optical vision system tracks the position of the analytical probes, providing an accurate map of the location of the contaminants. The precise positioning of the contaminants and ease of sampling allows for more accurate characterization of the surfaces before, after, and during clean-up operations. The real-time analysis of the inspection sites also eliminates unnecessary and wasteful clean-up activity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for mapping and characterizing the chemical composition of a surface, which comprises: a primary platform upon which is supported an optical vision system which topographically maps surfaces within a target volume by directing a source light beam through the target volume, receiving the reflected source light beam from a point on a surface within the target volume, and analyzing the reflected source light beam to provide a locus for a topographical map, said optical vision system having means for scanning the source light beam through multiple points within the target volume; a secondary platform upon which is supported a multisensor head and means for manipulating the position of the multisensor head over the mapped surface within the target volume, the multisensor head comprising at least one analytical probe connected to a remote detector which samples portions of the mapped surfaces within the target volume for chemical analysis; a remote detector which, together with an analytical probe, performs chemical analysis in situ on the sample portions of the mapped surfaces within the target volume; and one or more workstations with data processing means which: controls the means for scanning the source light beam through multiple points within the target volume, monitors the position of the multisensor head within the target volume from input by the optical vision system, controls the means for manipulating the position of the multisensor head over the mapped surfaces within the target volume, correlates data from the remote detector and analytical probe with data from the optical vision system, and reports the results of the chemical analysis of the sample portions and the locations of the sample portions on the mapped surfaces. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the workstation is remote from the primary and secondary platforms. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the primary and secondary platforms are mobile, and each includes a transport vehicle remotely controlled by the workstation. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the workstation additionally archives the results of chemical analyses of the sample portions and the locations of the sample portions on the mapped surfaces. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical vision system has a range error of less than 1 mm at a range of 5 m. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the optical vision system has a position error of less than 1 mm at a range of 30 m. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the results of the chemical analysis of the sample portions and the locations of the sample portions on the mapped surfaces are reported on-site in real time. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the multisensor head comprises analytical probes for gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, molecular vibrational spectrometry, or combinations thereof. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the analytical probes are connected to remote detectors adapted to detect polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's) in parts per billion. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the multisensor head includes a surface proximity sensor which detects the proximity of the multisensor head from the mapped surfaces within the target volume and/or a light sensor which detects the light emitted from the optical vision system or reflector means for reflecting the source light beam emitted from the optical vision system. 11. An apparatus for mapping and characterizing the chemical composition of a surface, which comprises: a primary mobile platform comprising a remotely controlled transport vehicle upon which is supported a frequency-modulated coherent laser radar 3D mapper system to topographically map surfaces within a target volume, said frequency-modulated coherent laser radar 3D mapper system having means for scanning a laser beam through multiple points within the target volume; a secondary mobile platform comprising a remotely controlled transport vehicle upon which is supported a multisensor head and means for manipulating the position of the multisensor head over the mapped surfaces within the target volume, said multisensor head comprising one or more analytical probes connected to a remote detector which samples portions of the mapped surfaces within the target volume for chemical analysis; one or more remote detectors which, together with an analytical probe, perform chemical analysis in situ on the sample portions of the mapped surfaces within the target volume; and one or more workstations with data processing means remote from the primary and secondary platforms, which: controls the transport vehicles of the primary and secondary platforms, controls the means for scanning the laser through multiple points within the target volume, monitors the position of the multisensor head within the target volume from input by the frequency-modulated coherent laser 3D mapper system, controls the means for manipulating the position of the multisensor head over the mapped surfaces within the target volume, correlates data from the one or more remote detectors and analytical probes with data from the frequency-modulated coherent laser radar 3D mapper system, and reports and archives the results of the chemical analysis of the sample portions and the locations of the sample portions on the mapped surfaces. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the frequency-modulated coherent laser radar 3D mapper system has a range error of less than 5 mm at a range of 5 m. 13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the frequency-modulated coherent laser radar 3D mapper system has a position error of less than 1 mm at a range of 40 m. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the frequency-modulated coherent laser radar 3D mapper system utilizes fiber optics to provide a local oscillator beam for comparison to a reflected light beam in topographically mapping surfaces within a target volume. 15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the multisensor head includes a surface proximity sensor which detects the proximity of the multisensor head from the mapped surfaces within the target volume and/or a light sensor to detect the laser beam or reflector means for reflecting the laser beam emitted by the frequency-modulated coherent laser radar mapping system. 16. The apparatus of claim 11, which includes more than one primary mobile platform and more than one secondary mobile platform controlled by one or more workstations. 17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the frequency-modulated coherent laser radar 3D mapper system makes more than 1000 measurements/second as the laser is scanned through the target volume. 18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the probe can be repositioned to take samples within time intervals of less than 10 seconds. 19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the analytical probes sample portions of the mapped surfaces having an area of 10 cm.sup.2 or less and a depth of 0.5-1 mm. 20. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the results of the chemical analysis of the sample portions and the locations of the sample portions on the mapped surfaces are reported on-site in real time. 21. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the multisensor head comprises analytical probes for gas chromatography/mass spectrometry, molecular vibrational spectrometry, or combinations thereof. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the analytical probes are connected to remote detectors which detect polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's) in parts per billion. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein chemical analysis of sample portions by the probe/detector combination is obtained in less than 60 seconds. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein chemical analysis of sample portions by the probe/detector combination is obtained in less than 30 seconds. 25. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the multisensor head contains an analytical probe for a remote, high speed gas chromatograph positioned on the mobile secondary platform wherein separation of selected vapors is accomplished within 100 seconds or less. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the high speed gas chromatograph is coupled to a time-of-flight mass spectrometer positioned on the mobile secondary platform. 27. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the multisensor probe includes a detector for .alpha.- and .beta.-particles with energy resolution suitable to identify U.sup.235, U.sup.238, Pu.sup.239, Th.sup.230. 28. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the multisensor head includes one or more fiber optic probes connected to remote detectors for one or more molecular vibrational spectrometers remote from the primary mobile platform and secondary mobile platform. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein the molecular vibrational spectrometer performs a spectrophotometric technique independently selected from near-infrared Raman spectrometry and mid-infrared external reflecting spectrometry. 30. The apparatus of claim 28, which utilizes a molecular vibrational spectrometer which detects transformer oil within an inorganic matrix and identify asbestos and concrete, transite, synthetic polymers, wood, and metal. 31. An apparatus for mapping and characterizing the chemical composition of a surface, which comprises: (a) one or more remotely controlled transport vehicles upon which is supported (i) a scanning coherent laser detection system which topographically maps surfaces within a target volume by scanning a laser beam through the target volume, receiving the reflected laser beam from points on a surface within the target volume, and analyzing the selected laser beam to provide loci for a topographical map; and (ii) a multisensor head attached to a robotic arm adapted to manipulate the position of the multisensor head over the mapped surfaces within the target volume, wherein the multisensor head comprises multiple analytical probes which sample portions of the mapped surfaces within the target volume for in situ chemical analysis by multiple remote detectors which comprise high speed gas chromatography coupled to a time-of-flight mass spectrometer and molecular vibrational spectrometer; and (b) one or more workstations with data processing means remote from the one or more remotely controlled transport vehicles which: controls the one or more transport vehicles, controls the robotic arm which manipulates the position of the multisensor head over the mapped surfaces within the target volume, monitors the position of the multisensor head within the target volume from input by the light sensor and the scanning coherent laser detection system, correlates data from the one or more remote detectors and analytical probes with data from the scanning coherent laser detection system, and reports the results of the chemical analysis and locations of the sample portions on the mapped surfaces. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the results of the chemical analysis of the sample portions and the locations of the sample portions on the mapped surfaces are reported on-site in real time. 33. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein chemical analysis of sample portions by the probe/detector combination is obtained in less than 60 seconds. 34. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein chemical analysis of sample portions by the probe/detector combination is obtained in less than 30 seconds. 35. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the analytic probe for the remote high speed gas chromatograph vaporizes organic compounds from the sample portions and transports them to a collector/concentrator. 36. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the molecular vibrational spectrometer performs a spectrophotometric technique independently selected from near-infrared Raman spectrometry and mid-infrared external reflecting spectrometry. 37. The apparatus of claim 31, which utilizes a molecular vibrational spectrometer to detect transformer oil within an inorganic matrix and identify asbestos and concrete, transite, synthetic polymers, wood, and metal. 38. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the multisensor probe includes a detector for .alpha.- and .beta.-particles with energy resolution suitable to identify U.sup.235, U.sup.238, Pu.sup.239, and Th.sup.230. 