A telescoping robot arm with singularity-free three degrees of motion freedom spherical joints is disclosed. The telescoping section and spherical joints are hydraulically operated to achieve a high power-to-weight ratio and use conventional seals of the type normally used on hydraulic pistons. The spherical joints of the instant invention are comprised of a generally spherical cavity containing a tiltable member with integral a retractable arcuate vanes interdigitized with retractable arcuate vanes in a non-tiltable member. A plurality of cavities is formed within the spaces between the interdigitized arcuate vanes of the instant invention, with the volume of these intervane cavities being controlled with an equal plurality of hydraulic valves. A plurality of spherical joints of the present invention may be interconnected with double acting telescoping sections of the present invention to form a robotic arm assembly. The telescoping sections are double acting and contain splines or similar structures to prevent rotation while allowing controllable extension and retraction. A combination of two spherical joints and one telescoping section of the instant invention make a singularity free robot arm with seven degrees of motion freedom.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A fluid pressure operated spherical joint comprising: a movable platform; a central sphere; an attachment means rigidly attached to the movable platform and the central sphere, whereby the movable platform, the central sphere, and the attachment means form a tiltable member of the joint; a hollow spherical casing rigidly attached to a spherical base; a plurality of first arcuate vane guides spaced from each other and rigidly attached to the tiltable member; a plurality of second arcuate vane guides spaced from each other, arranged about the central sphere, and attached to the spherical casing or base; a plurality of first arcuate vanes movable within slots formed between the first arcuate vane guides; a plurality of second arcuate vanes movable within slots formed between the second arcuate vane guides; whereby a fluid pressure introduced to the spherical joint produces a first pressure which forces the first and second arcuate vanes to abut against the second and first arcuate vane guides, respectively, forming a seal therebetween and produces a second pressure, lower than the first pressure, within selected pressure chambers formed between the first and second arcuate vanes, the second pressure resulting in a pivoting and/or tilting movement of the tiltable member. 2. The fluid pressure operated spherical joint of claim 1, and further comprising a control valve having restriction means therein, and a source of fluid pressure supplied to the control valve, whereby the first higher pressure is substantially the same pressure as the fluid pressure supplied to the control valve, and the second lower pressure is the pressure which passes through the restriction means. 3. The fluid pressure operated spherical joint of claim 2, whereby the fluid pressure is hydraulic fluid under pressure. 4. A fluid operated motor assembly in which an introduction of fluid under pressure results in a first pressure and a second, lower pressure being applied to the motor assembly and producing a pivoting and/or tilting motion, comprising: a first vane guide having an upper surface and a first vane guide arcuate slot; and a second vane guide spaced from said first vane guide, said second vane guide having a lower surface and a second vane guide arcuate slot; and a first arcuate vane having an upper sealing surface, a lower pressure surface, and a side surface; and a second arcuate vane having a lower sealing surface, an upper pressure surface, and a side surface; and whereby a pressure chamber for the motor is formed by the inside surfaces of the first and second arcuate vanes, the upper sealing surface of the first vane guide, and the lower sealing surface of the second vane guide; and such that the first higher pressure acts on the pressure surfaces of the respective arcuate vanes, producing a force which forces the upper sealing surface of the first arcuate vane to abut against the upper surface of the second vane guide and forces the lower sealing surface of the second arcuate vane to abut against the lower surface of the first vane guide to produce a fluid seal therebetween; and such that the second lower pressure applied within the pressure chamber produces a pivoting and/or tilting motion of the second vane guide with respect to the first vane guide. 5. The fluid operated motor assembly of claim 4, and further comprising a plurality of control valves for each pressure chamber of the fluid operated motor assembly, each of the control valves having an upstream side and a downstream side with a restrictor means disposed therebetween, each control valve being connected at its upstream side to a source of fluid pressure, whereby each pressure chamber of the motor assembly is in communication with the downstream side of each respective control valve, whereby the first higher pressure is substantially the same pressure as the fluid pressure supplied to the control valve at its upstream side, and the second lower pressure is the pressure which passes through the restriction means. 6. The fluid pressure operated spherical joint of claim 5, whereby the fluid pressure is hydraulic fluid under pressure. 7. A fluid pressure operated robot arm assembly, comprising: a plurality of fluid operated motor assemblies of claim 4 and a plurality of telescoping cylinder assemblies, whereby each telescoping cylinder assembly comprises: a lower base member; control valve means communicating with the base member; a casing attached to the lower base member; a piston movably disposed within the casing; an upper base plate rigidly attached to an end of the piston; whereby the piston extends within the casing under an influence of a fluid pressure applied to a side of the piston through the control valve means; and further, whereby each of the lower base members and upper base plates of the telescoping cylinder assemblies is connected to one of the fluid operated motor assemblies, respectively, such that the fluid pressure operated robot arm assembly can extend and/or pivot. 8. The fluid operated motor assembly of claim 4, and further comprising a plurality of control valves for each pressure chamber of the fluid operated motor assembly, each of the control valves having an upstream side and a downstream side with a restrictor means disposed therebetween, each control valve being connected at its upstream side to a source of fluid pressure, whereby each pressure chamber of the motor assembly is in communication with the downstream side of each respective control valve, whereby the first higher pressure is substantially the same pressure as the fluid pressure supplied to the control valve at its upstream side, and the second lower pressure is the pressure which passes through the restriction means. 9. The fluid pressure operated spherical joint of claim 5, whereby the fluid pressure is hydraulic fluid under pressure. 