A substrate (102) having a surface (103) with a plurality of electrical traces (106) disposed thereon is provided. A photonic device (111) is operably mounted on the electrical traces (106) of the substrate (102). An optical portion (121) having a reflective surface (118) that is embedded in the optical portion (121) for directing light to and from the working portion of the photonic device (111) is disposed on the surface (103) of the substrate (102), thereby encapsulating the photonic device (111) in the optical portion (121).
Claims We claim: 1. An optoelectronic interface device comprising: a substrate having a plurality of electrical traces disposed thereon; a photonic device having a working portion operably mounted on the plurality of electrical traces; an optical portion disposed on the substrate encapsulating the photonic device; and a lead frame member having a reflective surface embedded in the optical portion for directing light to and from the working portion of the photonic device. 2. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the photonic device is a phototransmitter. 3. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the phototransmitter is selected from a group of comprising: a light emitting diode and a laser. 4. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 3 wherein the laser is a vertical cavity surface emitting laser. 5. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the photonic device is a photo receiver. 6. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 5 wherein the photoreceiver is a P-I-N photodiode. 7. An optoelectronic interface device comprising: a reflective core region having an optical core region with a first end and a second end and a lead frame member having a reflective surface; wherein the first end of the optical core region is affixed to the reflective surface; and a cladding region having a first surface disposed on the optical core region covering the optical core region and positioning the first surface substantially parallel to the optical core region. 8. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of electrical traces disposed on the first surface of the cladding region; and a photonic device operably coupled to the plurality of electrical traces disposed on the cladding region. 9. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the photonic device is a phototransmitter. 10. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the phototransmitter is selected from a group of comprising: a light emitting diode and a laser. 11. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 10 wherein the laser is a vertical cavity surface emitting laser. 12. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the photonic device is a photoreceiver. 13. An optoelectronic interface device as claimed in claim 12 wherein the photoreceiver is a P-I-N photodiode. 14. A method for making an optoelectronic interface comprising the steps of: providing a substrate having a plurality of electrical traces disposed thereon; mounting a photonic device having a working portion on the plurality of electrical traces; and disposing a lead frame having a reflective surface into an optical portion, thereby embedding the reflective surface in the optical portion for directing light to and from the working portion of the photonic device. 15. An optical lead frame comprising: a lead frame member having a reflective surface positioned at a predetermined angle; and an waveguide portion affixed to the reflective surface of the lead frame member extending away from the lead frame member. 