Apparatus is provided for sewing the crotch portion of a pair of aligned blanks of limp fabric and stacking the sewn blanks which comprises robots (10 and 20) located one on each side of an operator. Each of the robots (10 and 20) is capable of gripping and removing a limp fabric blank from an associated stack of blanks and transporting the blanks to an operator. The robots (10 and 20) have arms (26) capable of axial movement and movement in a vertical plane and additionally capable of rotating about their axes through an angle of 180.degree.. At least one of the robots (10, 20) is capable of rotation about a vertical axis, effecting horizontal movement of the arm (26). The apparatus also comprises a sewing head (30) for sewing the crotch portion of the pair of aligned blanks, and a blank support/transfer carriage (41) adjacent the sewing head mounted for horizontal movement in a direction substantially parallel with the direction of sewing. A clamp unit (60) is associated with the blank support/transfer carriage (41). The apparatus also includes an integral gripping and stacking mechanism (52, 57) which is capable of gripping and stacking the sewed blanks supported on the blank/transfer carriage (41) at the extremity of its movement away from the sewing head (30).
Claims The claims defining the invention are as follows: 1. An apparatus for sewing the crotch portion of a pair of aligned blanks of limp fabric and stacking the sewn blanks, comprising: a pair of robotic units, located one on each side of an operator position, for removing limp fabric blanks from respective stacks of blanks and orienting the same for operator grasping, each of said robotic units comprising: a gripping device; and an arm mounting said gripping device for translational and rotational movement, whereby said gripping device is positionable to grip a fabric blank in a respective stack of blanks, movable to carry the gripped fabric blank away from the stack of blanks, and rotatable through an angle of 180.degree. to invert the gripped blank; a sewing device for sewing a crotch portion of said pair of aligned blanks; a blank support/transfer carriage adjacent said sewing means mounted for movement in a direction substantially parallel with the direction of sewing; a clamp for clamping down the blanks on the blank support/transfer carriage; and an integral gripping and stacking device located adjacent one side of said blank support/transfer carriage, for gripping and stacking the sewed blanks supported on said blank support/transfer carriage. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the arm of at least one of the robotic units is mounted for rotation about a vertical axis to effect horizontal movement of said gripping device. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein each robotic unit further comprises a blank stack support and an upstanding post extending adjacent to said support, said arm being pivotally mounted on one end of the post for movement in a vertical plane, said gripping device being mounted at an outer extremity of said arm and being axially movable along said arm. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the post of at least one of the robotic units is mounted for rotation about a vertical axis to effect horizontal movement of said gripping device. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the blank gripping device comprises a pair of wheels and an associated plate, said wheels being rotatable in two directions to provide a pinching grip of the blank on engagement therewith when the wheels rotate in one direction, and to release the blank when rotated in the opposite direction. 6. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 1-5 wherein the integral gripping and stacking means comprises a pair of substantially parallel arms mounted one above the other for angular rotation about a substantially vertical axis, a clamping pin associated with the upper arm and mounted for movement in a substantially vertical direction and capable of firmly clamping the sewed blank to the lower arm. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the direction of sewing and the parallel movement direction of the blank support/transfer carriage are horizontal. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said integral gripping and stacking device is operative to grip and stack the sewed blanks supported on said blank support/transfer carriage when the blank support/transfer carriage reaches an extremity of movement away from the sewing device. 