A two degree-of-freedom robot manipulator is constructed from two rotary drives of prior invention. Each rotary drive consists of a relatively small diameter cylindrical driving member and a relatively larvae diameter cylindrical driven member coupled by a cable system. The driving member of rotary drive 2 is positioned with its axis of rotation coincident with the axis of rotation of the driven member of rotary drive 1. The driven member of drive 2 is rotatably mounted to the driven member of drive 1 to realize the required relative positioning of the driving and driven members of drive 2. The driving members of both rotary drives are mounted in a fixed reference frame. Coordinated control of the driving members allows two axis dynamic control of a tool apparatus mounted to the second driven member. This construction method extends the precision of the rotary drive to two degrees of freedom and obviates the apparatus required in other methods to transmit torques from the fixed reference frame to the second driven member.
Claims What I claim is: 1. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis; first driving means coupled to said first driven member for rotating said first driven member about said first driven axis; a second driven member rotatably mounted in close proximity to said first driven member for rotating about a second driven axis; second driving means coupled at a drive point to said second driven member for rotating said second driven member about said second driven axis; and wherein said drive point is generally coincident with said first driven axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, said driven member and said second driven member each comprising a generally cylindrical body. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first driving means and said second driving means are both fixedly secured to a frame member. 4. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first cylindrical driven member rotatably mounted to a fixed support member for rotation about a first driven axis; first drive means mounted to said fixed support member and adjacently disposed to said first cylindrical driven member for controllably rotating said first cylindrical driven member about said first driven axis; a second cylindrical driven member rotatably mounted in close proximity to said first cylindrical driven member for rotation about a second driven axis; and a second drive means mounted to said fixed support member and adjacently disposed to said second cylindrical driven member for controllably rotating said second cylindrical driven member about said second driven axis. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, said second drive means comprising a driver member which rotates about a driver axis and which is coupled to said second cylindrical driver member in order to controllably rotate said second cylindrical driver member, and wherein said driver axis is generally coincident with said first driven axis. 6. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical first driven member and a generally cylindrical first driver member, said first driver member being rotatable about a first driver axis and coupled to said first driven member whereby rotation of said first driver member rotates said first driven member about a first driven axis, said first driver axis and said first driven axis being generally parallel; a second rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical second driven member and a generally cylindrical second driver member, said second driver member being rotatable about a second driver axis and coupled to said second driven member whereby rotation of said second driver member rotates said second driven member about a second driven axis, said second driver axis and said second driven axis being generally parallel; and wherein the second driven member is rotatably mounted in close proximity to the first driven member for rotation about said second driven axis, said first driven axis and said second driven axis being offset and generally parallel, and said second driver axis being generally coincident with said first driven axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 in which the first and second driver members each receive a respective rotary input from a respective mechanical rotary power source. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further including a fixed reference frame, and wherein a non-rotating component of each mechanical rotary power source is mounted stationary to said fixed reference frame relative to the rotation of the first driven member. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a fixed reference frame, and wherein a rotating component of each mechanical rotary power source is rotatably mounted to said fixed reference frame relative to the rotation of the first driven member. 10. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical first driven member and a generally cylindrical first driver member, said first driver member being rotatable about a first driver axis and coupled to said first driven member whereby rotation of said first driver member rotates said first driven member about a first driven axis, said first driver axis and said first driven axis being generally parallel; a second rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical second driven member and a generally cylindrical second driver member, said second driver member being rotatable about a second driver axis and coupled to said second driven member whereby rotation of said second driver member rotates said second driven member about a second driven axis, said second driver axis and said second driven axis being generally parallel; and wherein the second driven member is rotatably mounted in close proximity to the first driven member for rotation about said second driven axis, said first driven axis and said second driven axis being offset and generally parallel, and said second driver axis being generally coincident with said first driven axis; and wherein said first driver member is coupled to said first driven member by a first cable means and said second driven member is coupled to said second driven member by a second cable means. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 in which the first and second driver members each receive a respective rotary input from a respective mechanical rotary power source. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further including a fixed reference frame, and wherein a non-rotating component of each mechanical rotary power source is mounted stationary to said fixed reference frame relative to the rotation of the first driven member. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a fixed reference frame, and wherein a rotating component of each mechanical rotary power source is rotatably mounted to said fixed reference frame relative to the rotation of the first driven member. 14. A two degree-of-freedom measuring apparatus, comprising: a first rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical first driven member and a generally cylindrical first driver member, said first driver member being rotatable about a first driver axis and coupled to said first driven member whereby rotation of said first driver member rotates said first driven member about a first driven axis, said first driver axis and said first driven axis being generally parallel; a second rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical second driven member and a generally cylindrical second driver member, said second driver member being rotatable about a second driver axis and coupled to said second driven member whereby rotation of said second driver member rotates said second driven member about a second driven axis, said second driver axis and said second driven axis being generally parallel; wherein the second driver member is rotatably mounted in close proximity to the first driver member for rotation about said second driver axis, said first driver axis and said second driver axis being offset and generally parallel, and said second driven axis being generally coincident with said first driver axis; a first measuring means coupled to said first driven member; and a second measuring means coupled to said second driven member. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said first driven member and said second driven member are both fixedly secured to a frame member. 