A core ring assembly for use in production of a plastic injection-molded component is formed by injecting molten metal alloy into core dies to produce two intricately shaped ring type elements--one male, one female. Removing the male and female ring elements from the core dies and combining the two elements in an assembly machine to form a uniform, geometrically symmetrical, integral core ring assembly. The core ring assembly is transported to a plastic molding machine for overmolding the core ring assembly with either thermosetting or thermoplastic material. Then, the core assembly is melted out from the plastic component in a hot oil bath or induction melt-out, and the molten alloy recovered thereby is returned to a molten metal alloy tank for reuse.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a molded plastic part through use of a metallic core over which the part is over molded comprising the steps of: providing a machine for dispensing a molten metal alloy; pumping said molten metal alloy into a male and female core die to form male and female core rings which enable the avoidance of improper tolerance build-ups; assembling said male and female core rings together to form a core ring assembly; loading said core ring assembly into a molding machine for over molding to form the part; and melting said core ring assembly out from the part and returning the molten metal alloy to the machine for dispensing the molten metal alloy. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 including the step of unloading said female core ring and placing it in a fixture. 3. A method as set forth in claim 2 including the step of unloading said male core ring and inserting it into said female core ring in a rotating motion. 4. A method as set forth in claim 3 including the step of temperature conditioning said core ring assembly via a conveyor type oven. 5. A method as set forth in claim 4 including the step of loading a hub in said molding machine in combination with said core ring assembly. 6. A method of manufacturing a molded plastic component comprising the steps of: forming a core ring assembly having a male core ring including a first flange and a plurality of core segments extending therefrom and a female core ring including a second flange and a plurality of core segments extending therefrom; inserting said core ring assembly into a mold cavity, said mold cavity formed by a front and a rear portion, wherein closure of the front and rear portions sandwiches the first flange and second flange between the front and rear portions to secure the core ring assembly in place; introducing plastic into the mold cavity and overmolding the core ring assembly; removing the component and overmolded core ring assembly from the mold cavity; and melting said core ring assembly out from the finished component. 7. A method as set forth in claim 6 wherein said step of melting said core ring assembly includes the step of placing said component and core ring assembly in a thermal oil bath to melt-out the core ring assembly. 