A weld pool viewing system including optical elements for enhancing the weld pool image is positioned at an angle relative to the axis of a welding torch to extract image information pertaining to the interface of the weld pool with a workpiece to control the welding parameters.
Claims We claim: 1. In a welding system, the combination of, a welding torch means for producing a weld pool at the seam of a workpiece in response to an arc contacting the workpiece, first means for positioning and moving said welding torch means along a direction of travel relative to the seam, second means for controlling the welding parameters of said welding torch means, vision means for viewing the weld pool at an angle relative to the axis of said welding torch means so as to produce a weld pool image including the interface of the weld pool with the workpiece and generating signals indicative thereof, said signals being transmitted to said second means to control the quality of the weld produced at the seam of the workpiece, said vision means including, a tubular viewing port angularly disposed in advance of the direction of travel of the welding torch means and having an open end for viewing the weld pool and weld pool interface with the workpiece, a camera means optically coupled to the opposite end of said tubular viewing port, a series of optical elements positioned within said tubular viewing port to define an optical path, said elements comprising, a transfer lens means for forming an intermediate image of the weld pool at a position along said optical path, a gradient density filter means positioned coincident with the image plane of the transfer lens to effectively darken the portion of the intermediate image corresponding to the arc thereby reducing the intensity gradients across the weld pool image, and a camera means for viewing the weld pool image developed by said gradient density filter and transmitting weld pool image information to said second means. 2. In a welding system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said welding torch means includes weld wire extending through a contact tip for sustaining a weld arc relative to said workpiece, said contact tip and weld wire being positioned within a tubular shield gas member which directs shield gas flow into the region of the weld pool, said vision means including said tubular viewing port means extending from said tubular shield gas member to provide viewing of the weld pool in advance of the welding torch means. 3. In a welding system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said vision system further views the welding arc and transmits signal information to said first means for controlling the position of said welding torch means relative to the seam. 4. In a welding system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first means includes a robot manipulator apparatus and a robot controller, said second means including a vision process computer for processing the image information from the camera means and a weld process computer for responding to inputs from the vision process computer to alter the weld process parameters at the workpiece in response to the image information developed by said camera means. 5. In a welding system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said camera is a solid state camera having a charge coupled device detector array for extracting information from the weld pool image. 6. In a welding system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said angle of viewing is between approximately 25.degree. and 35.degree.. 7. In a welding system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said series of optical elements further include a viewing window means at the open end of said tubular viewing port to isolate the other optical elements from the hostile environment of the weld arc and weld pool. 