A laser imaging system is used to analyze defects on semiconductor wafers that have been detected by patterned wafer defect detecting systems (wafer scanners). The laser imaging system replaces optical microscope review stations now utilized in the semiconductor fab environment to examine detected optical anomalies that may represent wafer defects. In addition to analyzing defects, the laser imaging system can perform a variety of microscopic inspection functions including defect detection and metrology. The laser imaging system uses confocal laser scanning microscopy techniques, and operates under class 1 cleanroom conditions and without exposure of the wafers to operator contamination or airflow. Unlike scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) that have previously been used for defect analysis, the laser imaging system will not damage samples or slow processing, costs significantly less to implement than an SEM, can produce a three dimensional image which provides quantitative dimensional information, and allows sub-surface viewing of defects lying beneath dielectric layers. The laser imaging system is adaptable to cluster or in-situ applications, where examination of defects or structures during on-line processing can be performed.
Claims We claim: 1. An imaging system comprising: means for inspecting a semiconductor die to determine the efficacy of a process previously performed on the semiconductor die, the means for inspecting comprising a multiline laser light source that emits laser light of a plurality of wavelengths, means for directing the laser light toward the semiconductor die, and means for measuring a first intensity of laser light reflected from the semiconductor die; and means for analyzing a defect on the semiconductor die to determine the nature and origin of the defect. 2. An imaging system as in claim 1, wherein the means for analyzing further comprises means for determining at least one material of which the defect is constituted. 3. An imaging system as in claim 1, wherein the means for analyzing further comprises means for determining at least one dimension of the defect. 4. An imaging system as in claim 1, wherein the means for analyzing further comprises means for determining a location of the defect on the semiconductor die. 5. An imaging system as in claim 1, wherein the laser emits one of said plurality of wavelengths at a second intensity, and wherein the means for inspecting further comprises a second filter that allows said one of said plurality of wavelengths to be transmitted to the semiconductor die with a third intensity inversely proportional to the second intensity. 6. An imaging system as in claim 1, further comprising: means for supporting the semiconductor die; means for isolating the semiconductor die within a region of the system, and wherein air within the region conforms to Class 1 cleanroom conditions. 7. An imaging system as in claim 6, further comprising means for remotely loading and unloading the semiconductor die onto and off of the means for supporting such that air within the region conforms to Class 1 cleanroom conditions. 8. An imaging system as in claim 1, wherein the imaging system can resolve features on the object as small as approximately 0.1 microns. 9. An imaging system as in claim 8, wherein the laser light source is an ultraviolet laser. 10. An imaging system as in claim 8, wherein images are rendered in false color. 11. An imaging system comprising: a laser imaging means for imaging a surface of an object using laser light, the laser imaging means comprising a laser light source that emits a beam of laser light; a spatial filter for focusing the beam on a pinhole aperture; a lens arranged between the pinhole aperture and the surface, the lens having a focal plane; means for scanning the beam and directing the scanned beam toward the object through the lens; and means for measuring the intensity of laser light reflected from the object and back through the lens and the pinhole aperture, wherein the measured intensity of laser light reflected from the object is at a maximum intensity when the surface lies in the focal plane of the lens; and a white-light imaging means for imaging a surface of an object using white light, the white-light imaging means comprising a white light source that emits white light; means for directing the white light toward the object; means for measuring the intensity of white light reflected from the object; and a filter that prevents laser light from impinging upon the means for measuring the intensity of white light and allows white light to impinge upon the means for measuring the intensity of white light; wherein the laser light imaging is performed at the same time as the white light imaging. 12. An imaging system as in claim 11, wherein one of the laser light or the white light is emitted at a first wavelength that causes fluorescence of a particular material in or on the object such that the one of the laser light or white light is reflected from the material at a second wavelength, and wherein the imaging system further comprises a filter that allows light of the second wavelength to pass through the filter, and prevents light of the first wavelength from passing through the filter. 13. An imaging system as in claim 11, wherein: the means for imaging an object using laser light further comprises means for displaying the laser light image; and the means for imaging an object using white light further comprises means for displaying the white light image. 14. An imaging system as in claim 13, wherein an image of the object can be displayed as a two-dimensional view of a surface of the object. 15. An imaging system as in claim 14, wherein an image of the object can be displayed as a two-dimensional view of a slice through the object. 16. An imaging system as in claim 15, wherein an image of the object can be displayed as a three-dimensional view of a surface of the object. 17. An imaging system as in claim 16, wherein at least two of the views can be displayed simultaneously. 18. An imaging system as in claim 11, wherein: the laser light is polarized; and the means for imaging an object using laser light further comprises means for allowing only light reflected from optically active material in or on the object to pass through to the means for measuring the intensity of laser light. 19. The imaging system of claim 11, wherein the scanning means comprises a resonant mechanical scanner. 20. An imaging system as in claim 11, wherein: the white light is polarized; and the means for imaging an object using white light further comprises means for allowing only light reflected from optically active material in or on the object to pass through to the means for measuring the intensity of white light. 21. An imaging system for detection or analysis of defects in or on an object, the system comprising: means for producing light of a first polarity; means for directing the light of a first polarity through a pinhole aperture and toward the object such that a portion of the light of a first polarity is reflected by a surface of the object; a lens mounted between the pinhole aperture and the surface, the lens for focusing the light of a first polarity to a focal point on or within the object; means for measuring the intensity of the light reflected from the object and back through the pinhole aperture, wherein the intensity of light reflected from the object is at a maximum intensity when the surface and the focal point of the lens are coincident; means for changing the polarization of the light reflected by the object so that the polarization of the light reflected by the object is of a second polarity different than the first polarity; means for filtering the reflected light so that the reflected light passing through the means for filtering has an intensity directly proportional to the distance between the focal point of the lens and the surface; and means for analyzing the intensity of to create an image of the object. 22. A laser imaging system for imaging a surface of an object, the system comprising: a laser light source that emits a beam of laser light, the beam focussed on a pinhole aperture; a beam scanner configured to receive the beam from the pinhole aperture and output a scanned beam toward the surface; a lens arranged between the beam scanner and the surface, the lens having a focal plane; and a sensor generating an output signal proportional to the intensity of laser light reflected from the object and back through the lens, the beam scanner, and the pinhole aperture to impinge on the sensor, wherein the output signal of the sensor indicates a maximum intensity of reflected laser light when the surface lies in the focal plane of the lens. 23. The imaging system of claim 22, wherein the laser is a multiline laser light source that emits laser light at a plurality of wavelengths. 24. An imaging system as in claim 23, wherein the laser emits one of said plurality of wavelengths at a first intensity, and wherein the means for inspecting further comprises a filter that allows said one of said plurality to be transmitted to the semiconductor die with a second intensity inversely proportional to the first intensity. 25. An imaging system as in claim 23, wherein the beam travels along a first path between the laser and the surface, the system further comprising: a beam splitter arranged in the first path of the beam between the laser and the lens, the beam splitter configured (1) to pass a first portion of light travelling along the first path and to reflect a second portion of light travelling along the first path so that the second portion of light travels along a second path not parallel to the first path, and (2) to pass a third portion of light travelling to the beam splitter along the second path and to reflect a fourth portion of light travelling to the beam splitter along the second path so that the fourth portion of light travels along the first path; a white light source that emits white light along the second path to impinge the beam splitter and illuminate the surface; a camera arranged to receive light travelling along the second path; and a filter arranged between the beam splitter and the camera, the filter preventing laser light from impinging upon the camera and allowing white light reflected from the surface and reflected by the beam splitter to impinge upon the camera. 26. An imaging system as in claim 22, further comprising: a white light source that emits white light; a reflective body for directing the white light toward the object; and a camera for white-light imaging, the camera configured to receive a portion of the white light reflected from the surface. 27. The imaging system of claim 26, wherein the laser light imaging and the white light imaging are performed simultaneously. 28. An imaging system as in claim 22, wherein the object is enclosed within a region of the system and wherein air within the region conforms to Class 1 cleanroom conditions. 29. An imaging system as in claim 22, wherein the beam scanner is a resonant mechanical scanner. 