An apparatus and method for translating an object held by at least two fingers of a robot hand to a predetermined position relative to a fixed point of the robot hand is disclosed. The apparatus comprises a linear potentiometer for sensing the position of each finger relative to the fixed point on the robot hand. A microcomputer identifies the finger at the greater distance from the predetermined position as the position-controlled finger, and identifies the other finger as the force-controlled finger. Pneumatic cylinders and valves impart movement to each finger. A pneumatic servovalve controls movement of the position-controlled finger according to the position of the position-controlled finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand. In an alternative embodiment, the movement of the position-controlled finger is controlled according to both the position of the position-controlled finger and the position of the force-controlled finger. A pair of strain gages senses the force between the force-controlled finger and the object. Another pneumatic servovalve controls movement of the force-controlled finger according to the force sensed between the force-controlled finger and the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for translating an object held by at least two fingers of a robot hand at a predetermined gripping force to a predetermined position relative to a fixed point of the robot hand, the method comprising: sensing the position of each finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; for each finger, determining whether said finger is at the greater distance from the predetermined position; selecting the finger at the greater distance as the finger to be position-controlled and selecting the other finger as the finger to be force-controlled; moving said position-controlled finger toward the predetermined position; controlling movement of said position-controlled finger according to the position of said position-controlled finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; sensing the gripping force between said force-controlled finger and the object; controlling movement of said force-controlled finger according to said gripping force sensed between said force-controlled finger and the object; stopping movement of said position-controlled finger when the object reaches the predetermined position relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; and when said position-controlled finger is stopped and the predetermined gripping force is applied to the object, then stopping said force-controlled finger. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein: the step of controlling movement of said position-controlled finger is effected according to the position of the force-controlled finger as well as the position of the position-controlled finger. 3. A method for translating an object held by at least two fingers of a robot hand at a predetermined gripping force to a predetermined position relative to a fixed point of the robot hand, the method comprising: sensing the position of each finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; for each finger, determining whether said finger is at the lesser distance from the predetermined position; selecting the finger at the lesser distance as the finger to be position-controlled and selecting the other finger as the finger to be force-controlled; moving said position-controlled finger toward the predetermined position; controlling movement of said position-controlled finger according to the position of said position-controlled finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; sensing the gripping force between said force-controlled finger and the object; controlling movement of said force-controlled finger according to said gripping force sensed between said force-controlled finger and the object; stopping movement of said position-controlled finger when the object reaches the predetermined position relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; and when said position-controlled finger is stopped and the predetermined gripping force is applied to the object, then stopping said force-controlled finger. 4. A method as in claim 3, wherein: the step of controlling movement of said position-controlled finger is effected according to the position of the force-controlled finger as well as the position of the position-controlled finger. 5. An apparatus for translating an object held by at least two fingers of a robot hand, to a predetermined position relative to a fixed point of the robot hand, the apparatus comprising: means for sensing the position of each finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; finger differentiation means for identifying the finger at the greater distance from the predetermined position as the position-controlled finger and for identifying the other finger as the force-controlled finger; means for moving each finger; means for controlling movement of said position-controlled finger according to the position of said position-controlled finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; means for sensing the force between said force-controlled finger and the object; and means for controlling movement of said force-controlled finger according to the force sensed between the force-controlled finger and the object. 6. An apparatus as in claim 5, wherein: said position sensing means includes for said position-controlled finger a linear potentiometer connected to said means for controlling movement of said position-controlled finger and for said force-controlled finger a linear potentiometer connected to said means for controlling movement of said force-controlled finger. 7. An apparatus as in claim 5, wherein: said force sensing means includes at least a pair of strain gages on each finger, each said pair of strain gages being located with the centerpoint of each gage coinciding with the longitudinal centerline of each said finger. 8. An apparatus for translating an object held by at least two fingers of a robot hand, to a predetermined position relative to a fixed point of the robot hand, the apparatus comprising: means for sensing the position of each finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; finger differentiation means for identifying the finger at the lesser distance from the predetermined position as the position-controlled finger and for identifying the other finger as the force-controlled finger; means for moving each finger; means for controlling movement of said position-controlled finger according to the position of said position-controlled finger relative to the fixed point of the robot hand; means for sensing the force between said force-controlled finger and the object; and means for controlling movement of said force-controlled finger according to the force sensed between the force-controlled finger and the object. 9. An apparatus as in claim 8, wherein: said position sensing means includes for said position-controlled finger a linear potentiometer connected to said means for controlling movement of said position-controlled finger and for said force-controlled finger a linear potentiometer connected to said means for controlling movement of said force-controlled finger. 10. An apparatus as in claim 8, wherein: said force sensing means includes at least a pair of strain gages on each finger, each said pair of strain gages being located with the centerpoint of each gage coinciding with the longitudinal centerline of each said finger. 