A wire gripping clamp has a rubber inner tube wedged to the ends of a rigid outer tube by a set of rings, one ring at each tube end. The space between the tubes is sealed by the rings and forms a chamber, which when pressurized, compresses the inner tube wedging the rings against it. The compressed inner tube grasps an insulated wire passing therethrough without damage to the wire. The rings serve as a clamp in response to tension on the inner tube and as a guide for the wire when the wire is displaced through the device for precluding damage to the inner tube and to the wire during that relative displacement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A clamp device comprising: an outer tubular member having a bore lying on a longitudinal axis and first and second oppositely disposed ends; an inner tubular member within the bore of and pliable relative to the outer member, the inner member having portions adjacent the ends of said outer tubular member at first and second regions; said outer tubular member having an inner bore and a pair of outer circular cylindrical bores aligned on said axis, one outer bore at each end of the outer tubular member at said first and second regions, the inner bore having a smaller diameter than the outer bores and positioned next to and between the outer bores, the transition region between said outer and inner bores being inclined relative to said axis to form a frustro-conical surface of a given extent parallel to said axis, each of said outer bores extending parallel to said axis a distance substantially greater than said given extent; said given extent having a magnitude just sufficiently great to provide said frustro-conical surface; a pair of clamping rings, a different one in each of said outer bores, each ring having a circular cylindrical portion extending along said axis and dimensioned to closely fit within the bore of the inner tubular member at a corresponding one of said outer bores, an end of each of said rings having a frustro-conical surface corresponding to and adapted to face a different transition region to compressively clamp that inner tubular member substantially in that transition region in response to a tensile force induced in the inner member; and inlet means coupled to the outer member adapted to couple a source of pressurized fluid to the chamber defined by said inner and outer tubular members between said clamped end regions to induce said tensile force in said inner member. 2. The clamp of claim 1 further including means secured to the outer member adapted to be attached to a support. 3. The clamp of claim 1 wherein said outer tubular member and ring members are metal and said inner tubular member is rubber, said rings being sufficiently durable and smooth to serve as a guide for a wire moving through the core of said inner tubular member. 4. The clamp of claim 1 wherein said flange members are threaded to the outer tubular member. 5. The clamp of claim 1 wherein said flange members each have a shoulder coupling the inner and outer bores thereof, said shoulder tapering at an angle less than 90.degree. relative to a direction parallel to the longitudinal axes of said tubular members, said rings each having a chamfered edge facing said shoulder for clamping the inner tubular member to said shoulder. 6. The clamp of claim 1 wherein each said rings has an outer diameter greater than the diameter of the corresponding flange member inner bore and smaller than the diameter of that corresponding flange member outer bore. 7. The clamp of claim 1 wherein said flange members each have an annular chamfered shoulder coupling the inner and outer bores thereof, said rings each having an annular chamfered shoulder facing and juxtaposed with the shoulder of the corresponding flange member for clamping and squeezing the inner tubular member between said shoulders in response to tension on said inner tubular member. 