Plural rotatable elements are contained in a wrist assembly wherein at least two of the axes intersect at a junction point, and a continuous laser beam pathway is established through the wrist elements, the beam pathway extending colinearly with the first and second wrist axes, and a mirror is provided with a reflecting surface intercepting the junction point of the wrist axes to assist in directing the internally ducted laser beam.
Claims We claim: 1. An improved articulatable laser wrist assembly, having: a base housing, rotatable about a first wrist axis: means for mounting said base housing to a robotic arm: a turret housing mounted to said base housing, and rotatable about a second wrist axis, transverse to, and intersecting, said first wrist axis at a junction point; and means for rotatably driving said base housing and said turret housing, said means for driving including drive elements concentric with said first wrist axis; wherein the improvement comprises: a continuous laser beam pathway through said base housing and said turret housing, said beam pathway extending collinearly with said first and second wrist axes; and at least one mirror having a reflecting surface, said mirror mounted to said wrist assembly with said reflecting surface intercepting said junction point of said first and second wrist axes. 2. The laser wrist assembly of claim 1, wherein said first and second axes are obliquely-angled to one another. 3. The laser wrist assembly of claim 1, further including tool plate means on said turret housing for mounting a laser tooling member. 4. An improved articulatable laser wrist assembly, having: a base housing, rotatable about a first wrist axis; means for mounting said base housing to a robotic arm; a turret housing mounted to said base housing, and rotatable about a second wrist axis, transverse to, and intersecting, said first wrist axis at a first junction point; a third wrist axis in said turret housing, transverse to, and intersecting, said second wrist axis at a second junction point; means for rotatably driving said base housing and said turret housing, said means for driving including drive elements concentric with said first wrist axis; wherein the improvement comprises: a continuous laser beam pathway through said laser housing and said turret housing, said beam pathway extending collinearly with said first, second and third wrist axes; and at least two mirrors, each having a reflective surface, said mirrors mounted to said wrist assembly with one of said mirror reflective surfaces intercepting said first junction point, and one of said mirror reflective surface intercepting said second junction point. 5. The laser wrist assembly of claim 4, wherein said first and third wrist axes are parallel to one another. 6. The laser wrist assembly of claim 4, wherein said first and second wrist axes are obliquely-oriented to one another. 7. The laser wrist assembly of claim 4, wherein said second and third wrist axes are obliquely-oriented to one another. 8. The laser wrist assembly of claim 4, further including: a tooling plate, mounted to said turret housing and rotatable about said third axis; and means for rotatably driving said tooling plate. 9. The laser wrist assembly of claim 8, wherein both said means for rotatably driving said base housing and said turret housing and said means for rotatably driving said tooling plate include drive elements concentric with said first wrist axis. 10. An improved laser wrist and forearm assembly for a laser robot comprising: a base housing, rotatable about a first wrist axis; a turret housing mounted to said base housing and rotatable about a second wrist axis, transverse to, and intersecting said first wrist axis at a junction point; a robotic forearm, rotatably supporting a plurality of concentric drive tubes rotatable about a forearm axis; means for mounting said base housing to one of said drive tubes; means for rotatably driving said tubes; and means for drivingly-connecting another of said tubes to said turret housing; wherein the improvement comprises: a continuous laser beam pathway through said forearm, said tubes, said base housing and said turret housing, said beam pathway extending collinearly with said forearm axis, and said first and second wrist axes; and at least one mirror having a reflecting surface, said mirror mounted to said wrist and forearm assembly with said reflecting surface intercepting said junction point of said first and second wrist axes. 11. An improved laser wrist and forearm assembly for a laser robot comprising: a base housing, rotatable about a first wrist axis; a turret housing mounted to said base housing and rotatable about a second wrist axis, transverse to, and intersecting said first wrist axis at a first junction point; a third wrist axis in said turret housing, transverse to, and intersecting, said second wrist axis at a second junction point; a robotic forearm, rotatably supporting a plurality of concentric drive tubes, rotatable about a forearm axis; means for mounting said base housing to one of said drive tubes; means for rotatably driving said tubes; and means for drivingly-connecting another of said drive tubes to said turret housing; wherein the improvement comprises: a continuous laser beam pathway through said forearm, said tubes, said base housing and said turret housing, said beam pathway extending collinearly with said forearm axis and said first, second and third wrist axes; and at least two mirrors, each having a reflective surface, said mirrors mounted to said wrist and forearm assembly with one of said mirror reflecting surfaces intercepting said first junction point, and one of said mirror reflecting surfaces intercepting said second junction point. 12. The laser wrist and forearm assembly of claim 11, wherein said first and third wrist axes are parallel to one another. 13. The laser wrist and forearm assembly of claim 11, wherein said first and second wrist axes are obliquely-oriented to one another. 14. The laser wrist and forearm assembly of claim 11 wherein said second and third wrist axes are obliquely-oriented to one another. 15. The laser wrist and forearm assembly of claim 11 further including: a tooling plate, mounted to said turret housing and rotatable about said third axis; and means for drivingly-connecting still another of said concentric tubes of said tooling plate. 16. A laser robot forearm assembly for use with a laser wrist, having: a hollow elongate forearm housing having opposite forearm ends; a plurality of concentric drive tubes rotatably journalled in said forearm housing, on a common forearm axis; and drive means for independently rotating each of said concentric tubes; wherein the improvement comprises: a continuous laser beam pathway through the innermost of said concentric tubes, extruding from one forearm end to the other; means for mounting a laser wrist assembly to one of said concentric tubes at one of said forearm links; and light pipe means at the other of said forearm ends for connecting said innermost tube with a laser light pipe system. 