A robotic paint masking machine is disclosed. The machine consists of a rotatable table pivotally mounted on a base. The rotatable table is operatively connected to a rotary actuator. The rotary actuator has the ability to rotate the rotatable table 180 degrees. Two mask holders are positioned on the rotatable table in opposed relationship to one another. Each mask holder includes a vertically movable frame for holding a decorative mask. Two rotary indexing units are mounted between the rotatable table and the mask holders for rotating the mask holders during a painting operation.
Claims What I claim: 1. An robotic paint masking machine comprising; a base; a rotatable table pivotally mounted on said base, said table rotating at least 180 degrees; a rotary actuator mounted on said base and operatively connected to said rotatable table for rotating said table; at least two mask holders positioned on said table in opposed relationship to one another, each of said mask holders including a vertically movable frame for holding a decorative mask; and a rotary indexing unit mounted between said table and each of said mask holders for rotating said mask holder during a painting operation. 2. The machine according to claim 1, wherein said base includes a plurality of legs, a first set of support members attached to a perpendicular relationship to said legs, a second set of support members attached in a perpendicular relationship to said legs and a plurality of ball bearing units mounted between one of said plurality of legs and said rotatable table. 3. The machine according to claim 2, including a shot pin assembly mounted on said base, said shot pin assembly comprising a shot pin and a shot pin cylinder operatively attached to said assembly, whereby when said shot pin cylinder is extended, said shot pin engages said rotatable table thereby locking said rotatable table from rotational movement. 4. The machine according to claim 1, wherein said rotatable table includes an upper surface, a lower surface and a plate attached to said lower surface of said table. 5. The machine according to claim 1, including a shaft depending from said rotatable table, a pinion gear mounted on said shaft, said rotary actuator including a housing, a rack mounted within said housing adjacent said pinion gear, said pinion gear being operatively engaged with said rack, cylinder means operatively connected to said rack for reciprocating said rack, whereby the reciprocating rack rotates said pinion gear, said shaft and said table. 6. The machine according to claim 5, including stop means for limiting rotation of said table. 7. The machine according to claim 1, wherein each of said mask holders further includes a turntable, a platform mounted on said turntable, two side supports extending upwardly perpendicular to said platform, a rest pad operatively connected to said platform, cylinder means extending between said rest pad and said platform, said cylinder means moving said rest pad vertically with respect to said platform, said rest pad supporting and positioning an article to be coated during the painting operation, and at least one mask holder frame cylinder means connected to said movable frame and said platform, said mask holder frame cylinder means moving said movable frame vertically with respect to said rest pad. 8. The machine according to claim 7, wherein each of said mask holders further includes opposed L-shaped rest pad guides attached to said supports and two mating groove members attached to said rest pad, whereby said L-shaped guides engage said mating groove members to align said rest pad as said rest pad is moved vertically by said rest pad cylinders. 9. The machine according to claim 1, wherein each of said rotary indexing units includes a base, a rack, a gear operatively engaged with said rack, an index plate mounted on said gear, a connecting means joining said gear and said mask holder and a drive cylinder operatively connected to said rack, whereby when said drive cylinder is actuated, said drive cylinder actuates said rack turning said gear, said gear rotating said mask holder during a painting operation. 