A programmably controllable vise has mechanisms for automatic adjustment of orkpiece position relative to three orthogonal axes. The positions of the vise jaws (during clamping) establish workpiece position along a first axis, and stop members (e.g., piston actuated stops) selectively extendable from the jaws establish workpiece position along a second axis. Two levelling bars supported adjacent the jaws by respective servo-actuators (e.g., double-acting piston type actuators) which adjust the bars along the jaws establish workpiece position along the third axis, as well as workpiece tilt about the first and second axes. Because the adjustments may be made automatically, the vise may operate unattended, with workpieces being loaded and unloaded by a robot. The vise jaws preferably incorporate replaceable jaw elements which are constructed for attachment and removal by a robot and which may be machined to accommodate non-prismatic workpieces. One of the jaws may be fixed to a housing of the vise, with the other jaw being supported on a movable carriage driven by a feedback-controlled linear drive. An open side of the housing adjacent the jaws is protectively covered by a sheet metal band wrapped around the housing and having opposite ends respectively attached to the front and rear of the carriage. The band circulates around the housing with movement of the carriage, and the open side of the housing thus remains covered to avoid the entry of contaminants.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vise for positioning workpieces relative to a first axis, a second axis, and a third axis which are mutually perpendicular, comprising a first jaw, a second jaw, means supporting said jaws for relative movement along said first axis in a plane extending in the directions of said first axis and said second axis such that said jaws may perform a clamping action and a releasing action, positioning means disposed between said jaws and including first and second levelling bar means which extend, respectively, across a workpiece-contacting surface of said first jaw and a workpiece-contacting surface of said second jaw substantially in the direction of said second axis for engaging a workpiece inserted between said jaws to establish the position of the workpiece along said third axis, and actuating means adjustably supporting said positioning means for moving said positioning means along said third axis to adjust said position, said actuating means including first hydraulic servo-actuator means which displaces said first levelling bar means along said third axis and second hydraulic servo-actuator means which displaces said second levelling bar means along said third axis. 2. A vise according to claim 1, wherein said positioning means adjusts tilt of said workpiece about said second axis. 3. A vise according to claim 1, wherein said positioning means adjusts tilt of said workpiece about said first axis. 4. A vise according to claim 1, wherein said first servo-actuator means comprises a pair of servo-actuators supporting opposite end portions of said first levelling bar means and a pair of servo-actuators supporting opposite end portions of said second levelling bar means. 5. A vise according to claim 4, wherein each servo-actuator comprises a hydraulic piston and a piston rod connecting the piston to the respective levelling bar means. 6. A vise according to claim 1, wherein said first levelling bar means is fixed relative to said first jaw along said first axis and said second levelling bar means is fixed relative to said second jaw along said first axis such that said first and second levelling bar means move relative to one another with said relative movement of said jaws. 7. A vise according to claim 6, wherein said first jaw is fixed to a housing of said vise and wherein said second jaw is mounted on a carriage supported within said housing for movement along said first axis. 8. A vise according to claim 7, wherein said carriage is supported by linear bearings mounted to said housing. 9. A vise according to claim 8, wherein said bearings are inclined contact roller bearings. 10. A vise according to claim 7, wherein said housing comprises a base plate, two spaced side plates attached to said base plate, and two end plates respectively attached to said base plate and to said side plates at opposite ends of said housing. 11. A vise according to claim 10, wherein said first levelling bar means extends over said side plates and wherein said first servo-actuator means includes a pair of servo-actuators each carried by a respective side plate and connected to a portion of said first levelling bar means extending over that side plate to move that portion of said first levelling bar means along said third axis. 12. A vise according to claim 11, wherein each servo-actuator comprises a hydraulic piston received in a bore of the corresponding side plate and a piston rod connecting the piston to said first levelling bar means. 13. A vise according to claim 7, wherein said second levelling bar means is supported on said carriage by said second servo-actuator means which is carried by said carriage. 14. A vise according to claim 13, wherein said second servo-actuator means comprises a pair of servo-actuators supporting opposite end portions of said second levelling bar means. 15. A vise according to claim 14, wherein each servo-actuator comprises a hydraulic piston received in a bore in said carriage and connected to said second levelling bar means a piston rod. 16. A vise according to claim 7, including sheet means extending around said housing and having opposite ends attached to opposite ends of said carriage, said sheet means circulating around said housing with said movement of said carriage and sealing said housing opposite said base plate during said movement of said carriage. 17. A vise according to claim 1, including stop means carried by at least one of said jaws for engaging the workpiece inserted between said jaws to establish the position of the workpiece along said second axis, and additional actuating means adjustably supporting said stop means for movement adjacent a workpiece contacting surface of said one jaw for adjusting the last-mentioned position. 18. A vise according to claim 17, wherein said stop means includes a plurality of stop members carried by said first jaw and a plurality of stop members carried by said second jaw, the stop members of each plurality being spaced along said second axis and selectively extendable toward the opposite jaw by said additional actuating means. 19. A vise according to claim 18, wherein said stop members are piston rods each connected to a corresponding hydraulic piston of said additional actuating means. 20. A vise according to claim 19, wherein said hydraulic pistons are received in respective bores in said jaws and wherein said piston rods move through respective holes in workpiece-contacting surfaces of said jaws under the action of said pistons. 21. A vise according to claim 20, wherein each jaw includes rotary valve means formed therein for distributing hydraulic fluid to said bores in that jaw to control the pistons in said bores. 22. A vise according to claim 21, wherein each rotary valve means is controlled by a corresponding stepper motor. 23. A vise for positioning workpieces relative to a first axis, a second axis, and a third axis which are mutually perpendicular, comprising means supporting a fixed jaw and a movable jaw movable along said first axis in a plane extending in the directions of said first axis and said second axis to clamp workpieces against said fixed jaw, a first levelling member mounted adjacent said fixed jaw, a second levelling member mounted adjacent said moving jaw for movement therewith, said levelling members being disposed between said jaws and establishing a position along said third axis to which a workpiece may be inserted between said jaws, actuating means including first and second servo-actuators adjustably supporting said levelling members respectively for moving said levelling members transverse to said plane to adjust said position along said third axis, said second servo-actuator being mounted for movement with said second levelling member and said moving jaw, stop means carried by said jaws and establishing the position of the workpiece along said second axis, and additional actuating means supporting said stop means for selectively adjusting said stop means along said second axis to adjust said position established by said stop means. 24. A vise according to claim 23, wherein said stop means comprises a plurality of stops mounted to said fixed jaw and extendable toward said moving jaw by said additional actuating means and a plurality of stops mounted to said moving jaw and extendable toward said fixed jaw by said additional actuating means. 25. A vise according to claim 24, wherein the stops of each plurality are spaced along a workpiece-contacting surface of the associated jaw in the direction of said second axis. 26. A vise according to claim 25, wherein said stops are piston rods connected to hydraulic pistons received in corresponding bores in said jaws. 27. A vise according to claim 26, wherein each jaw carries a rotary valve which distributes hydraulic fluid to the piston-receiving bores in that jaw. 28. A vise according to claim 23, wherein each jaw has a base portion and a replaceable jaw element received over said base portion and providing a workpiece-contacting surface facing the other jaw. 29. A vise according to claim 28, wherein said replaceable jaw element includes a top plate, two spaced side plates joined to said top plate, and a face plate joined to said top and side plates which provides said workpiece-contacting surface. 30. A vise according to claim 29, wherein edges of the top and side plates opposite said face plate are bevelled to facilitate placement of said replaceable jaw element over said base portion. 31. A vise according to claim 29, wherein said base portion has a pair of hydraulic pistons mounted in bores at opposite sides of said base portion, each piston having a piston rod extending from within said base portion externally of said base portion, said piston rod having a tapered tip cooperable with a tapered bore within a respective side plate of said replaceable jaw element to draw said replaceable jaw element tightly against said base portion. 32. A vise according to claim 23, wherein each of said servo-actuators is a hydraulic piston-type actuator having a piston rod connected to the corresponding levelling member and linear-position detecting means connected to that levelling member for detecting the position of that levelling member along said third axis. 33. A vise according to claim 23, wherein the means supporting said jaws comprises a housing supporting said fixed jaw and a movable carriage mounted in said housing, for movement along said first axis said moving jaw being fixed to said carriage in the direction of said first axis. 34. A vise according to claim 33, including motor operated linear drive means for moving said carriage along said first axis. 35. A vise according to claim 34, wherein said linear drive means includes a ball-screw drive drivingly engaged with said carriage, and feedback-controlled motor means for drivingly rotating said ball-screw drive. 36. A vise according to claim 33, wherein said housing has an open side adjacent said jaws, and including sheet means covering said open side and extending around said housing with opposite ends of said sheet means being respectively secured to opposite ends of said carriage such that during said movement of said carriage, said sheet means is pulled around said housing to continuously cover said open side of said housing during said movement of said carriage. 37. A vise for positioning workpieces relative to a first axis, a second axis, and a third axis which are mutually perpendicular, comprising a first jaw, a second jaw, means supporting said jaws for relative movement along said first axis in a plane extending in the directions of said first axis and said second axis, first and second levelling bar means mounted adjacent said first jaw and said second jaw, respectively, for relative movement with said jaws along said first axis and for establishing a position along said third axis to which a workpiece may be inserted between said jaws, and first and second servo-actuator means respectively supporting said first levelling bar means and said second levelling bar means for adjustable movement along said third axis, respectively across a workpiece-contacting surface of said first jaw and a workpiece-contacting surface of said second jaw in order to adjust said position established by said first levelling bar means and said second levelling bar means. 38. A vise according to claim 37, wherein said first and second servo-actuator means adjust relative positions of the respective levelling bar means along said third axis to establish workpiece tilt about the direction of said second axis. 39. A vise according to claim 38, wherein said first and second servo-actuator means also adjust the angular positions of the respective levelling bar means about the direction of said first axis. 40. A vise according to claim 37, wherein said jaws carry respective stop means for engaging the workpiece inserted between said jaws to establish the position of the workpiece along said second axis, and including hydraulic actuating means for selectively adjusting the stop means of each jaw along said second axis to adjust said position established along said second axis. 41. A vise according to claim 40, wherein the respective stop means comprise a plurality of hydraulic piston-actuated stops spaced along said first jaw in the direction of said second axis and a plurality of hydraulic piston-actuated stops spaced along said second jaw in the direction of said second axis. 42. A vise according to claim 41, wherein said stops are piston rods connected to respective pistons which extend and retract said rods along said first axis. 43. A vise according to claim 37, wherein the means supporting said jaws comprises a housing supporting said first jaw and a movable carriage mounted in said housing, said second jaw being fixed to said carriage, and including feedback-controlled linear drive means for controlling movement of said carriage along said first axis. 44. A vise according to claim 43, wherein said linear drive means includes a ball-screw drive drivingly engaged with said carriage, and feedback-controlled motor means for drivingly rotating said ball-screw drive. 45. A vise according to claim 43, wherein said housing has an open side adjacent said jaws, and including sheet means covering said open side and extending around said housing with opposite ends of said sheet means being respectively secured to opposite ends of said carriage such that during said movement of said carriage, said sheet means is pulled around said housing to continuously cover said open side of said housing during said movement of said carriage. 46. A vise for positioning workpieces relative to a first axis, a second axis, and a third axis which are mutually perpendicular, comprising a first jaw, a second jaw, means supporting said jaws for relative movement along said first axis in a plane extending in the directions of said first axis and said second axis, first and second levelling bar means mounted adjacent said first jaw and said second jaw, respectively, for relative movement with said jaws along said first axis and for establishing a position along said third axis to which a workpiece may be inserted between said jaws, and first and second servo-actuator means respectively supporting said first levelling bar means and said second levelling bar means for adjustable movement along said third axis in order to adjust said position established by said first levelling bar means and said second levelling bar means, wherein said first and second servo-actuator means adjust relative positions of the respective levelling bar means along said third axis to establish workpiece tilt about the direction of said second axis, and wherein said first and second servo-actuator means also adjust angular positions of the respective levelling bar means about the direction of said first axis. 47. A vise for positioning workpieces relative to a first axis, a second axis, and a third axis which are mutually perpendicular, comprising a first jaw, a second jaw, means supporting said jaws for relative movement along said first axis in a plane extending in the directions of said first axis and said second axis, first and second levelling bar means mounted adjacent said first jaw and said second jaw, respectively, for relative movement with said jaws along said first axis and for establishing a position along said third axis to which a workpiece may be inserted between said jaws, and first and second servo-actuator means respectively supporting said first levelling bar means and said second levelling bar means for adjustable movement along said third axis in order to adjust said position established by said first levelling bar means and said second levelling bar means, said jaws carrying respective stop means for engaging the workpiece inserted between said jaws to establish the position of the workpiece along said second axis, said vise also including hydraulic actuating means for selectively adjusting the stop means of each jaw along said second axis to adjust said position established along said second axis. 