The present invention provides a rotary fluid coupler for attachment to a robot arm. The present inventive apparatus and method allows the coupling to connect in a nonconcentric manner a plurality of separate fluid streams allowing the outer shell of the coupler to be fixably attached or restrained from angular movement by the robot arm and having an inner portion adaptable for connection to a rotatable wrist of a robot for a complete 360 degree rotation.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A rotary coupler for a robot arm comprising: an outer shell having an inner bore fluidly connected with the outside of said outer shell via a first conduit; a first inner shell rotatably mounted within said outer shell having a first generally annular sealed clearance with said outer shell, said annular clearance being fluidly connected with said first conduit, and said first inner shell having a first eccentric axial bore fluidly connected with said annular clearance and said eccentric axial bore having a concentric annular gap; at least a second inner shell fixedly connected with said first inner shell and having an extension of said first eccentric axial bore aligned therewith; and a tubular insert sealed by a surrounding O-ring captured in said concentric annular gap adjacent an end of said tubular insert, said tubular insert being mounted within said first eccentric axial bore whereby said second inner shell may be removed from its fixable connection with said first inner shell. 2. A coupler as described in claim 1 further including said first inner shell having a second annular sealed clearance with said outer shell fluidly connected with the outside of said outer shell via a second conduit, and said first and second inner shells having a second eccentric axial bore, said second eccentric axial bore in said first inner shell having a second concentric annular gap, and said coupler having a second tubular insert sealed by a surrounding O-ring captured in said second concentric annular gap adjacent an end of said second tubular insert, said second tubular insert being fluidly connected with said second annular clearance. 3. A rotary coupler as described in claim 1 wherein said inner shells have an inner axial bore. 4. A rotary coupler as described in claim 1 wherein said robot has a rotatable wrist further including means of attachment of said inner shells to said robot wrist allowing said robot to rotate said inner shell. 5. A rotary coupler as described in claim 4 further including means of attachment allowing limited rotation of said outer shell with respect to said robot arm. 6. A rotary coupler as described in claim 1 wherein said tubular insert is metallically joined with said second inner shell. 7. A rotary coupler as described in claim 1 further including a bleed hole from the outside of said outer shell to an area adjacent to said first annular sealed clearance to allow detection of leakage past said first annular sealed clearance. 8. A rotary coupler as described in claim 3 further including a bleed hole from said axial bore of said inner shell to an area adjacent to said first annular sealed clearance to allow detection of leakage past said first annular sealed clearance. 9. A rotary coupler as described in claim 1 wherein said first annular sealed clearance is sealed by a pair of axially separated lip seals captured by alternating shoulders of said inner and outer shells. 10. A rotary coupler as described in claim 1 wherein said inner shell is rotatably mounted within said outer shell by means of a first bearing. 11. A rotary coupler as described in claim 10 further including a second bearing between said inner and outer shell axially spaced from said first bearing. 12. A rotary coupler for a robot arm comprising: an outer shell having an inner bore fluidly connected with the outside of said outer shell via noncommingling first and second conduits; a first inner shell rotatably mounted within said outer shell and having first and second generally annular sealed clearances with said outer shell, said annular clearances being fluidly connected with said first and second conduits respectively; and said first inner shell having a first and second eccentric axial bores with concentric annular gaps, said first and second eccentric axial bores being fluidly connected with said first and second annular clearances respectively; at least a second inner shell fixably connected with said first inner shell and having first and second extensions of said first and second eccentric axial bores aligned therewith; and first and second tubular inserts mounted within said first and second eccentric axial bore respectively and sealed by a surrounding O-ring captured in said respective annular gap adjacent an end of said tubular inserts whereby said second inner shell may be removed from its fixable connection with said first inner shell. 13. A rotary coupler as described in claim 12 wherein said first and second generally annular sealed clearances are aligned on a common diameter. 14. A rotary coupler as described in claim 12 said rotary coupling further including a third inner shell fixedly connected with said first inner shell opposite said second inner shell, said third inner shell having an annular sealed third clearance with said outer shell in fluid communication with the outside of said outer shell via a third conduit, and said first, second, and third inner shells having an third eccentric axial bore therethrough fluidly connected with said third annular sealed clearance and said third shell having a third annular gap concentric with said third eccentric axial bore and asid coupler having a third tubular insert mounted in said third axial bore sealed by a surrounding O-ring captured in said third annular gap. 15. A multiple fluid stream rotary coupler for a robot arm comprising: an outer shell with an inner bore, said inner bore having a plurality of axially separated noncommingling conduits fluidly connecting said inner bore with the outside of said shell; a fixably connected multiple member inner shell rotatably mounted within said outer shell having a plurality of axially separated generally annular sealed clearances individually fluidly connected with said noncommingling conduits, and said inner shell having a plurality of eccentric axial bores having annular concentric gaps and being individually fluidly connected with a respective annular sealed clearance; and a plurality of tubular inserts inserted within said respective eccentric axial bores sealed by a surrounding O-ring captured in said annular gaps adjacent an end of said tubular inserts whereby at least one of said inner shell members may be removed from its fixable connection with another said member of said inner shell. 16. A rotary coupler as described in claim 15 wherein said inner and outer shells are mounted by means of a bearing. 17. A rotary coupler as described in claim 15 wherein said outer shell is fabricated from a plurality of axially separated members fixably connected to one another. 18. A rotary coupler as described in claim 15 wherein said inner shell has an axial bore therethrough. 19. A rotary coupler as described in claim 15 wherein said robot has a rotatable wrist and wherein said inner shell has means of attachment to said rotatable wrist of said robot. 20. A rotary coupler as described in claim 15 wherein said annular clearances are aligned on a common diameter. 21. A rotary coupler as described in claim 15 wherein said inner shell has at least three members and at least two of said members have a plurality of eccentric axial bores communicating with a plurality of axially separated generally annular sealed clearances which are individually fluidly connected with a respective conduit. 22. A method of rotatably coupling a fluid from a robot arm to an applicator controlled by said robot comprising: communicating a fluid through a conduit in an axially bored outer shell; axially sealing said fluid between said outer shell and a multiple member inner shell rotatably mounted therein in an annular shaped clearance in communication with said conduit; communicating said fluid from said clearance through an eccentric axial bore having a concentric annular gap in said inner shell; and sealing said eccentric axial bore with a tubular insert surrounded adjacent one end by an O-ring in said annular gap in one member of said inner shell and sealed at another end in at least a second member of said inner shell. 