A robotic control arm apparatus or control arm for controlling the position of a control point associated with a controlled element within a reference plane and with respect to two reference points in a work space. The control arm assembly includes at least four link members mutually coupled in series to form a closed loop linkage, each of the link members being coupled about a pivot axis at each end. The apparatus may include a set of roller assemblies affixed to the control arm assembly, each roller assembly including a roller element and an endless belt disposed about the roller elements for driving the controlled element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control arm apparatus for controlling the position of a control point fixedly positioned with respect to a controlled element within a reference plane with respect to a reference points in said plane, comprising: a control arm assembly including: A. a first link member, said first link member having a first end pivotably coupled to a support element, said first end being pivotable about a first pivot axis perpendicular to said plane and passing through a first of said reference points, B. a second link member, said second link member having a first and pivotably coupled to a support element, said first end being pivotable about a second pivot axis perpendicular to said plane and passing through the second of said reference points, C. a third link member, said third link member having a first end pivotably coupled to the second end of said first link member about a third pivot axis perpendicular to said plane, D. a fourth elongated link member, said fourth link member having a first end pivotably coupled to the second end of said second link member about a fourth pivot axis perpendicular to said plane, E. means for pivotably coupling the second end of said third link member and the second end of said fourth link members about a fifth pivot axis perpendicular to said reference plane and passing through said control point, and F. means for coupling said controlled element to one of said third and fourth link members, and further comprising a selectively operable control means for independently controlling the angular position of each of said first and second link members with respect to said reference axes passing through said first and second reference points. 2. A control arm according to claim 1 wherein said two reference points are spaced apart in said reference plane. 3. A control arm according to claim 1 wherein said two reference points are coincident in said reference plane. 4. A control arm according to claims 2 or 3 wherein said control means includes a first motor and linkage coupled thereto adapted to selectively control the angular position of said first link member with respect to said support member. 5. A control arm according to claim 4 wherein said control means further includes a second motor and linkage coupled thereto, said second motor being operative in concert with said first motor and adapted to selectively control the angular position of said second link member with respect to said second support member. 6. A control arm according to claims 2 or 3 wherein said support element includes a planar work surface substantially parallel to said reference plane, and wherein said controlled element includes a means for coupling a work element adapted to perform predetermined operations at points displaced from said control point along an axis perpendicular to said plane and passing through a point located substantially at said control point. 7. A control arm according to claims 2 or 3 wherein the distance between said first and third pivot axes is substantially equal to the distance between said second and fourth pivot axes. 8. A control arm according to claim 7 wherein the distance between said third and fifth pivot axes is substantially equal to the distance between said fourth and fifth pivot axes. 9. A control arm according to claim 2, further comprising: a set of five roller assemblies affixed to said control arm assembly, each roller assembly including a roller element adopted for rotary motion about a respective one of said pivot axes, said rollers having substantially the same radius at their respective peripheral lateral surfaces, an endless belt disposed about said roller elements said belt being movable in at least one direction about all of said pivot axes, means for coupling said controlled element to said belt, and means for selectively driving said belt about said roller elements. 10. A control arm according to claim 3, further comprising: a set of four roller assemblies affixed to said control arm assembly, each roller assembly including a roller element adopted for rotary motion about a respective one of said pivot axes, said rollers having substantially the same radius at their respective peripheral lateral surfaces, an endless belt disposed about said roller elements said belt being movable in at least one direction about all of said pivot axes, means for coupling said controlled element to said belt, and means for selectively driving said belt about said roller elements. 11. A control arm according to claim 1 wherein said means for coupling said controlled element includes means for coupling said controlled element to said third link member whereby said control point is laterally displaced from said fifth pivot axis by a distance less than the distance between said third and fifth pivot axes. 12. A control arm according to claim 1 wherein said means for coupling said control arm includes means for coupling said controlled element to said fourth link member whereby said control point is laterally displaced from said fifth pivot axis by a distance less than the distance between said fourth and fifth pivot axes. 13. A control arm apparatus for controlling a controlled element in the direction of a reference plane comprising: A. a control arm assembly including at least four link members mutually coupled in series to form a closed loop linkage, each of said link members being coupled about a pivot axis at each end thereto to the next link member in said closed loop linkage, said pivot axes being substantially parallel. B. means for coupling said controlled element to at least one of said link members, C. a set of roller assemblies affixed to said control arm assembly, each roller assembly including a roller element adopted for rotary motion about a respective one of said pivot axes, said rollers having substantially the same radius at their respective peripheral lateral surfaces, D. an endless belt disposed about said roller elements said belt being movable in at least one direction about all of said pivot axes, E. means for coupling said controlled element to said belt, and F. means for selectively driving said belt about said roller elements. 