A work piece positioning device which has a table upon which the work piece is supported is disclosed. The table is rotatably mounted on a sub-assembly which is tiltably mounted on a frame such that the work piece can be positioned in any desired predetermined attitude. Two worm gear systems are utilized for positioning the table, one for the rotating action and one for the tilting action. Each worm gear system has a worm gear, a tiltable worm and a locking mechanism. Once the table and work piece are in the desired predetermined attitude, the locking mechanisms are actuated, locking each worm to its respective worm gear.
Claims What is claimed as new is: 1. A machine for positioning a support for work pieces comprising: frame means; co-axially spaced supports mounted on said frame means; a first worm gear fixedly mounted on one of said spaced supports; a first sub-assembly rotatably mounted on said co-axially spaced supports; a second sub-assembly rotatably mounted on said first sub-assembly and carrying said work support; a first worm rotatably mounted on said first sub-assembly and selectively positionable in driving or locking engagement with said first worm gear; a second worm gear fixedly mounted on said second sub-assembly and rotatable therewith; a second worm rotatably mounted on said first sub-assembly and selectively positionable in driving or locking engagement with said second worm gear; a first motor mounted on said first sub-assembly and connected in operative driving relationship with said first worm; a second motor mounted on said first sub-assembly and connected in operative driving relationship with said second worm; means for selectively positioning said first worm in driving or locking engagement with said first worm gear; and means for selectively positioning said second worm in driving or locking engagement with said second worm gear, said support for work pieces being positionable in a desired attitude by operation of one or both of said motors and being secured in said desired attitude by positioning said first and second worms in locking engagement with said first and second worm gears, respectively. 2. The machine called for in claim 1 wherein said second sub-assembly is rotatable with respect to said first sub-assembly about an axis which upon rotation of said first sub-assembly moves in a plane which is perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said first sub-assembly. 3. The machine called for in claim 1 wherein each of said worms is tiltably supported adjacent one end and reciprocable means are operatively connected with the opposite end thereof for selectively positioning each said worm in either its said driving or its locking engagement. 4. The machine called for in claim 3 wherein each of said worms is rotatably mounted within a worm housing and said housing is tiltably supported adjacent on end and said reciprocable means are engageable with the opposite end thereof. 5. The machine called for in claim 4 wherein said reciprocable means comprises a spring-biased pin reciprocably mounted for continuous engagement with one side of said worm housing and a solenoid-actuated cylinder and plunger is mounted for engaging the opposite side of said worm housing with sufficient force to cause retraction of said spring-biased pin. 6. The machine called for in claim 5 wherein each of said first and second motors is mounted on one of said worm housings. 7. The machine called for in claim 1 further comprising a robotic welder mounted in operative relationship to perform welds on said work pieces, said support for work pieces, a numerical control system operatively interconnected with said robotic welder, a first sub-assembly positioner controller operatively interconnected with said first motor, and a second sub assembly positioner controller operatively interconnected with said numerical control system and with said second motor. 8. The machine called for in claim 7 wherein each of said worms is rotatably mounted in a worm housing, each of said worm housings is tiltably supported adjacent one end, a spring-biased pin reciprocably mounted for continuous engagement with one side of each of said worm housings, a solenoid-actuated plunger mounted for engaging the opposite side of each said worm housing with sufficient force to cause retraction of said spring-biased pin, and each of said solenoid-actuated plungers being operatively interconnected with one of said position controllers 9. A machine for positioning a support for work pieces comprising: frame means; co-axially spaced supports mounted on said frame means; a first worm gear fixedly mounted on one of said spaced supports; a first sub-assembly rotatably mounted no said co-axially spaced supports; a second sub-assembly rotatably mounted on said first sub-assembly and carrying said work support; a first worm rotatably mounted on said first sub-assembly and positioned in driving engagement with said first worm gear; a second worm gear fixedly mounted on said second sub-assembly and rotatable therewith; a second worm rotatably mounted on said first sub-assembly and positioned in driving engagement with said second worm gear; a first motor mounted on said first sub-assembly and connected in operative driving relationship with said first worm; and a second motor mounted on said first sub-assembly and connected in operative driving relationship with said second worm, said support for work pieces being positionable in a desired attitude by operation of one or both of said motors. 