A robotic base compartment has an interior locating surface. A plurality of pins extend squarely from the locating surface. The pins are located by pre-assembly machining and the extending pin surfaces are coated with a release agent. A robotic component plate, such as a gear-carrying plate, is assembled in the base compartment, with clearance slots surrounding the locating pins. After adjustably positioning the gear elements with one another by shifting the component plate, the slots are filled, for at least a portion, with a pourable hardenable material such as epoxy which is then allowed to harden. The components may thereafter be disassembled and reassembled without the loss of precision location. The assembly method obviates the need for manual drilling and reaming of pin holes at assembly and the attendant chip contamination that results therefrom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for locating a precision robotic base component in a robotic base compartment, comprising the following steps: (a) securing a keying element in said base compartment of a relatively fixed robotic base; (b) forming a clearance opening for said keying element in said robotic base component; (c) locating said robotic base component in said base compartment with said keying element extending into said clearance opening; (d) providing said keying element with release means; (e) then filling at least a portion of said opening with a pourable, hardenable material, said material surrounding said keying element; and (f) then next allowing said material to harden onto said robotic base component and allowing said robotic base component to be removable from said keying element. 2. A method for locating a precision robotic base component in a robotic base compartment, comprising the following steps: (a) affixing a pin into base compartment surface, allowing a portion of said pin to extend from said surface; (b) forming a clearance opening for said pin through opposite sides of said component; (c) locating and securing one of said sides of said base component in said compartment against said surface with said pin extending into said clearance opening; (d) coating said portion of said pin with a release agent; (e) then filling at least a portion of said opening with a pourable, hardenable material, said material surrounding said pin; and (f) then next allowing said material to harden onto said robotic base component and allowing said robotic base component to be removable from said pin. 