Robotic systems for assembling electronic components require that the components be stored in an orderly manner at locations known to the robot. Generally, it is required that at least two storage locations be provided. More specifically, the components must be stored and presented to the robot in an orderly fashion for assembly operations and a storage location must be provided for components which the robot is unsuccessful in assembling. The invention which is the subject matter of this patent provides a convenient means for storing electronic components having reasonably rigid leads. More specifically, this invention provides for inserting the leads of the components into a semi-rigid gel for purposes of storage. If the components are to be assembled, the robot can conveniently lift the components from the gel. Similarly, if the component cannot be assembled, the robot can store the component by gently inserting the leads of the component into the gel. Alternatively, the gel may be a body of predetermined size for storing multiple components or included in a modular system with each module providing storage for a single component.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for storing electrical components having semi-rigid leads, comprising a body of resilient gel having a substantially flat upper surface permitting components to be stored by inserting said semi-rigid leads of said electrical components into said gel, and wherein said body of resilient gel has a thickness selected such that the leads of said components do not penetrate through said body of resilient gel, the constituents of said gel being selected such that: (1) said semi-rigid leads may be inserted into said gel without substantially bending said semi-rigid leads; (2) said gel does not harden or otherwise substantially deteriorate with time; and (3) such that said gel does not contaminate said component such that subsequent assembly processes are jeopardized; and the gel comprises by weight: (a) approximately 13% castor oil based prepolymer; (b) approxiamtely 60% castor oil based polyol; (c) approximately 20% dimethylpolysiloxane; and (d) approximately 2% ammonia salt. 2. Apparatus for supporting the conductive, semi-rigid leads of electrical components and permitting presentation of said components to a robot for assembly on a printed circuit board, which apparatus comprises: (a) a plurality of component holders each adapted to support an individual one of said components, each of said plurality of component holders including: (i) a base portion with upstanding side wall portions extending upward from the base portion to define an open ended cavity; and (ii) at least two opposed resilient members extending downwardly from the base portion and having inwardly extending lip portions at the downwardly extending ends of the resilient members; (b) a predetermined quantity of resilient gel disposed within said cavity into which gel the semi-rigid, conductive leads of said components are insertable, which gel thereby supports said leads and the electrical component, and said gel wipes clean from said leads when the leads are withdrawn from the gel and said leads are not contaminated by said gel; (c) a support rail upon which said plurality of component holders are supportable with the component holder resilient members engaging on said support rail. 3. The apparatus set forth in claim 2, wherein the gel comprises by weight, (1) approximately 13% castor oil based prepolymer; (2) approximately 60% castor oil based polyol; (3) approximately 20% dimethylpolysiloxane; and (4) approximately 2% ammonia salt. 