Apparatus for clinching rivets on electrical connectors to the bottom of a circuit board, comprises a frame in which a shuttle for supporting the board is movable along a rectilinear horizontal path by means of a robot which places the connectors on the board. Two jaw carriages provided with rivet clinching jaws are mounted in the frame beneath the shuttle for movement towards and away from one another by means of cam tracks on the shuttle and cam follower rails on the jaw carriages. The cam tracks are so shaped that the clinching jaws will clinch the rivets where the connectors are placed on the board in longitudinally offset relationship according to the program of the robot. Each jaw carriage has a jaw drive unit thereon which is operated to open and close the jaws according to the robot program.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for clinching work pieces to a board, the apparatus comprising: a frame; a board support shuttle mounted in the frame for horizontal rectilinear movement with respect thereto, in a first direction defining a first path; a board support on said shuttle for supporting a board in a horizontal plane; a jaw carriage mounted in the frame and beneath the board support, for horizontal rectilinear movement in a second direction defining a second path extending transversely of said first direction; clinching jaws on the jaw carriage and beneath the board support; means on said shuttle and said jaw carriage cooperating to move the jaw carriage between pre-determined positions along said second path in response to movement of said shuttle along said first path, to locate a projection depending from a workpiece on the upper side of the board and protruding from the lower side of the board, between the clinching jaws at said predetermined positions; and means for moving said jaws between an open position to receive said projection and a clinching position to clinch said projection thereby to retain said workpiece on the board. 2. Apparatus for clinching work pieces to a board, the apparatus comprising: a frame; a board support shuttle mounted in the frame for horizontal sliding movement with respect thereto in a first direction defining a first path; a board support on said shuttle for supporting a board in a horizontal plane; a pair of jaw carriages mounted in the frame beneath the board support for horizontal sliding movement towards and away from one another in a second direction defining a second path extending transversely of said first direction; a pair of clinching jaws on each jaw carriage, each pair of jaws being movable between an open position and a clinching position; means on the board support and on the jaw carriages cooperating to move the jaw carriages between predetermined positions along said second path in response to movement of said shuttle along said first path, to locate projections depending from a workpiece on the upper side of the board, which projections protrude from the lower side of the board, each between a pair of said clinching jaws at said predetermined positions; and means for moving said jaws to their open positions to receive said projections and to their clinching positions to clinch said projections to retain said workpiece on the board. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said cooperating means comprise cam tracks on said shuttle which are engagable with cam followers on the jaw carriages, the cam tracks being horizontally stepped and means being provided for returning the jaw carriages to outer end positions along said second path, following a series of clinching operations. 4. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said shuttle is slidable along first rectilinear rails supported in the frame, the jaw carriages being slidable along second rectilinear rails supported in the frame and extending at right angles to said first rectilinear rails. 5. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said jaw moving means comprise piston and cylinder units mounted on said jaw carriages and having piston rods connected to said jaws by linkage means. 6. Apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising a jaw carriage return piston and cylinder unit the cylinder of which is fixed to one of said jaw carriages and the piston rod of which is fixed to the other jaw carriage. 7. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said shuttle is vertically adjustable with respect to the frame. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the shuttle is slidable along rails supported by yokes engaging end plates of the frame, the yokes being movable vertically with respect to the frame by means of screws passed through the yokes and engaging the frame, the yokes being retainable in desired vertical positions by means of further screws in the end plates. 9. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the board support comprises side portions and end portions defining a central rectangular opening, each end portion being provided with spring loaded board hold down members. 10. Apparatus for clinching electrical connectors to a circuit board by clinching rivets which project from the connectors, through holes in the board, to secure the connectors to the board, the apparatus comprising: a frame; a board support shuttle mounted in the frame for horizontal rectilinear movement with respect thereto, in a first direction defining a first path; a board support on the shuttle, for supporting a circuit board in a horizontal plane, the board support having a central opening for exposing the underside of the board; a pair of jaw carriages mounted in the frame and beneath said board support, for rectilinear movement in a second direction defining second path at right angles to said first direction; a pair of clinching jaws connected to each jaw carriage immediately beneath said board support, each pair of jaws being movable between an open position and a clinching position; cam track and cam follower means on the shuttle and on the jaw carriages cooperating to move the jaw carriages between predetermined positions along said second path in response to movement of the shuttle along said first path, to locate hollow rivets depending from the connectors, between the clinching jaws at said predetermined positions; and drive units on the jaw carriages, connected to said pairs of jaws to move the jaws of each pair between an open position to receive said rivets between them and a clinching position to clinch said rivets to retain said connectors on the board. 