A semiconductor CCD focal plane array convolver is taught which permits performing convolution functions on the focal plane array chip. An X-Y array of photosensitive pixels is disposed in a semiconductive substrate, with a CCD roadway comprising a pattern of rows and columns of conductive gates upon the substrate surrounding and defining the X-Y array of pixels. The number of gates for each pixel are selected to permit charge from the pixel to be collected in either a first charge holding packet for a positive convolution coefficient, or in a second paired charge holding packet for a negative convolution coefficient. The convolution function is performed by applying gate signals which move the charge packets around the CCD roadway. A differencing electrometer is provided at the periphery of the CCD roadway to permit differencing the accumulated charge stored in the paired charge holding packets to difference the positive and negative convolution coefficients to provide a convolution output signal.
Claims I claim: 1. A semiconductor CCD focal plane array convolver which permits performing convolution functions on the focal plane array, and comprises: (a) an X-Y array of photosensitive pixels disposed in a semiconductive substrate; (b) a CCD roadway means comprising a pattern of rows and columns of conductive gates upon the substrate, which rows and columns of gates surround and define the X-Y array of pixels, with the gate configuration being selected to permit charge to be accumulated in a first charge holding packet defined for a positive convolution coefficient, and in a paired second charge holding packet for a negative convolution coefficient for each individual pixel; (c) means for applying clocked signals to the CCD gates associated with respective pixels to permit charge to be injected from respective pixels into the respective paired first and second charge holding packets, with the accumulated charge in any charge holding packet being determined by the integrated input radiation period and image intensity at the respective pixel; and for moving the charge holding packets along the CCD roadway to accumulate charge from a predetermined subarray of neighboring pixels to implement a predetermined linear convolution, and for moving the charge stored in paired charge holding packets accumulated from already processed convolutions along the CCD roadway to the periphery of the CCD roadway; (d) means on the semiconductive substrate at the CCD roadway periphery for differencing the accumulated charge stored in paired charge holding packets to difference the positive and negative convolution contributions to provide a convolution output signal. 2. The semiconductor CCD focal plane array convolver set forth in claim 1, wherein each intersection of the CCD roadway comprises a coupling gate coupled to two Y branches with one arm of the Y being part of a column and the other arm being part of a row of the roadway which permit charge packets to move in any one of four independent paths along the CCD roadway. 3. The semiconductor CCD focal plane array convolver set forth in claim 1, wherein the CCD roadway uniquely associated with an individual pixel contains five charge holding packet regions. 4. The semiconductor CCD focal plane array convolver set forth in claim 1, wherein four of the charge holding packet regions consist of four gates for each charge holding packet region consists of five gates. 