A robotic sensor incorporates an array of closely spaced force sensors which are carried on a mounting plate. The front surface of this mounting plate is brought into contact with the object under inspection. A plurality of optical fibers are attached to the rear one end; the opposite ends of the fibers are connected to optical detectors. Actuation of any of the force end of the force sensor to impinge on and reduce the light flow through a corresponding optical fiber. Analysis of the data indicating which of the optical fibers and their light output reduced will result in an analysis of the dimensions and orientation of the object.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A sensor for use in combination with a robotic hand to determine the size and position of an object relative to said hand comprising an array of force responsive sensors arranged in rows and columns on a mounting plate movable with said hand to contact the object, said force responsive sensors comprising an array of actuator pins on the surface of said sensor mounting plate confronting said object, a plurality of flexible spring fingers on the rear surface of said mounting plate, an optical fiber cooperating with each of said sensors comprising a pair of longitudinally separated, normally aligned segments to pass the light from a light source through the length of the fiber, one segment of each of said fibers lying across the back of each of said fingers, the other segment of each said fiber being fixed to the rear of said mounting plate, the fiber separation being in the region adjacent the actutable pin, one of said pins being aligned with each of said fingers carrying one of said optical fiber segments, actuation of said in moving said finger and said optical fiber segment to displace said first segment out of alignment with said second segment to diminish the light passing through said fibers, means for selectively interrogating said fiber optic devices while said sensor array is in contact with said object, and means coupled to said interrogating means and responsive to differences in the light output of said second fiber optic segment to determine contact between said object and said sensors. 2. A sensor as claimed in claim 1 wherein including a light source for illuminating said optical fibers, a portion of each of said fibers lying on the rear surface of said mounting plate, actuation of one of said pins impacting on the aligned fiber and reducing the light passing through said fiber. 3. A sensor as claimed in claim 2 wherein each of said fingers is cantilevered over a mounting hole of one of said actuator pins, the separation between said optical fiber segments being aligned with the opposite edge of said mounting hole. 4. A sensor for use in combination with a robot to determine the dimensions or location of an object comprising means for mounting an array of force responsive sensors arranged in rows and columns, said mounting means being movable into contact with an object and having a confronting surface facing said object, an array of optical fibers supported on said mounting means, each of said sensors having at least one of said fibers aligned therewith, means for transmitting light at a fixed level through said fibers, means for detecting changes in the light level conveyed through any of said fibers in response to actuation of said force responsive sensors, and a plurality of flexible spring fingers mounted on said mounting means, each finger supporting a short length of one of said optical fibers, each of said fibers comprising a pair of longitudinally separated, normally aligned segments to pass the light from the light source through the length of the fiber, said force responsive sensors comprising an array of actuator pins mounted perpendicular to and aligned with said fingers, said pins being movable in response to impact with said object to displace said fingers, said fingers being movable in response to said sensors to move one of said segments out of alignment with the other of said segments to modify the amount of light passing through said supported optical fiber to said detecting means, actuation of said force responsive sensors moving said fingers and thereby one of said normally aligned segments. 5. A sensor as claimed in claim 4 wherein said mounting means comprise a plate having slots for said pins, each of said fingers being cantilevered from the edge of one of said slots over at least one of said pins. 6. A sensor as claimed in claim 5 wherein the separation between said optical fiber segments is aligned with the opposite edge of said mounting hole from said cantilevered finger. 7. A sensor as claimed in claim 6 further comprising a flexible cover over the confronting face of said mounting plate and the ends of said actuatable pins to retain said pins in said slots, the opposite ends of said pins being restrained by said actuatable fingers. 