The invention provides a generic shield that can be used in welding, surfacing and cladding operations. These operations can be performed with either high power density processes such as lasers and out of vacuum electron means or arc assisted processes and plasma welding and/or cladding systems. The shield physically isolates the shielded region from the surrounding area by providing a zone of inert gas over the work area. As a result, the shield is functionally made to resemble a chamber which moves over the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A shielding apparatus for metal processing operations comprising: a housing having an enclosed upper region with a central bore therethrough which bore defines a conduct for the application of metal processing thermal excitation onto a selected location of a workpiece; said housing defining at least a first chamber about said central bore, through which inert gas is introduced to flood an area defined by said first chamber surrounding the selected location of the workpiece for metal processing; a second exhaust chamber diposed about a perimeter defined by said first chamber and defining a negative pressure region for the removal of smoke or the like resulting from the metal processing operation; a skirt comprising a flexible material disposed about the perimeter defined by said first chamber, said skirt physically isolating said first chamber in which inert gas is introduced from the second exhaust chamber and depending from the perimeter defined by said first chamber so as to cooperate with the workpiece directly below said housing first chamber to substantially enclose the selected location for metal processing; a cooling means disposed in said first chamber about said central bore; and a plasma suppression nozzle disposed proximate said central bore to provide a high velocity off-axis jet of inert gas to forcibly blow away superheated vapors and gas from the selected location. 2. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 1 wherein the housing defining at least a first chamber through which inert gas is introduced has four chambers into which controlled inert gas streams are introduced. 3. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 2 wherein each chamber into which controlled inert gas streams are introduced includes filter screen means which at least in part support a metallic wool material whereby a controlled distribution of the shielding gas is effected. 4. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 3 wherein the screen means comprise three to five 200 mesh filter screens stacked one on top of another. 5. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 4 wherein the metallic wool material is selected from the group comprising nickel wool, copper, brass, stainless steel and aluminum. 6. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 4 wherein the inert gas which is introduced to flood an area surrounding the selected location is injected into said chamber by a nozzle means which directs the flow of inert gas toward the enclosed upper region of the housing, wherein said inert gas is diffused within said chamber. 7. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 1 including nozzle means in communication with said at least first chamber by which inert gas in introduced thereinto and including means for controlling the flow of gas into said at least first chamber whereby the direction of gas flow about the selected location can be controlled. 8. A shielding apparatus for metal processing operations comprising: a housing having an enclosed upper region with a central bore therethrough which bore defines a conduit for the application of metal processing thermal excitation onto a selected location of a workpiece; said housing defining at least a first chamber about said central bore, through which inert gas is introduced to flood an area defined by said first chamber surrounding the selected location of the workpiece for metal processing; a second exhaust chamber disposed about a perimeter defined by said first chamber and defining a negative pressure region for the removal of smoke or the like resulting from the metal processing operation; a skirt comprising a flexible material disposed about the perimeter defined by said first chamber, said skirt physically isolating said first chamber in which inert gas is introduced from the second exhaust chamber and depending from the perimeter defined by said first chamber so as to cooperate with the workpiece directly below said housing first chamber to substantially enclose the selected location for metal processing; a cooling means disposed in said first chamber about said central bore. 9. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 8 wherein the housing defining at least a first chamber through which inert gas is introduced has four chambers into which controlled inert gas streams are introduced. 10. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 8 wherein each chamber into which controlled inert gas streams are introduced includes filter screen means which at least in part support a metallic wool material whereby a controlled distribution of the shielding gas is effected. 11. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 10 wherein the screen means comprise three to five 200 mesh filter screens stacked one on top of another. 12. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 11 wherein the metallic wool material is selected from the group comprising nickel wool, copper, brass, stainless steel and aluminum. 13. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 11 wherein the inert gas which is introduced to flood an area surrounding the selected location is injected into said chamber by a nozzle means which directs the flow in inert gas toward the enclosed upper region of the housing, wherein said inert gas is diffused within said chamber. 14. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 8 including nozzle means in communication with said at least first chamber by which inert gas is introduced thereinto and including means for controlling the flow of gas into said at least first chamber whereby the direction of gas flow about the selected location can be controlled. 15. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 8 including nozzle means in communication with said at least first chamber by which inert gas is introduced thereinto and including means for controlling the flow of gas into said at least first chamber whereby the direction of gas flow about the selected location can be controlled. 16. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 8 including a plasma suppression nozzle disposed proximate the central bore to provide a high velocity off axis jet of inert gas to forcibly blow away any superheated vapors and gas from the selected location. 17. In combination with an integrated robot laser comprising: a robotic system having one or more mechanical joints defining at least in part a fixed axis of motion and a second axis of motion, which axes of motion define a contoured path through the robotic system's geometric range of motion, wherein each of said mechanical joints defines in part a frame member; and a wrist assembly adapted to mountably receive thereon an end effector or the like to impart at least rotational movement thereto; and an integrated laser beam delivery system for the delivery of a beam along any point within said geometric range of motion to a terminal location proximate said wrist assembly, said integral laser beam delivery system including a plurality of optical joints and tubular members disposed between adjacent optical joints and through which tubular members the beam passes as it travels from optical joint to optical joint; a carousel tooling apparatus comprising a base member adapted to be mounted onto said wrist assembly such that rotational movement is imparted to said carousel tooling apparatus, said base member having a first tooling station thereon and at least a second tooling station thereon wherein the rotational movement of said base member as effected by said wrist assembly, selectively presents each of said tooling stations to said terminal location of said laser beam delivery system; a shielding apparatus for metal processing operations for use in combination with one of said tooling stations, said shielding apparatus comprising: a housing having an enclosed upper region with a central bore therethrough which bore defines a conduit for the application of metal processing thermal excitation onto a selected location of a workpiece; said housing defining four chambers about said central bore through each of which inert gas is selectively introduced to flood an area defined by said four chambers surrounding the selected location of the workpiece for metal processing; a second exhaust chamber means disposed about a perimeter defined by said four chambers and defining a negative pressure region for the removal of smoke or the like resulting from the metal processing operation; a skirt disposed about a perimeter defined by said four chambers, said skirt physically isolating said second chamber means from said four chambers; and a cooling means disposed in said first chamber about said central bore. 18. The combination according to claim 17 including a plasma suppression nozzle means disposed proximate the central bore to provide a high velocity off-axis jet of inert gas to forcibly blow away superheated vapors and gas from the selected location, said nozzle means being positionally adjustable relative to the central bore. 19. The shielding apparatus for metal processing operations according to claim 18 wherein each chamber into which controlled inert gas streams are introduced includes filter screen means which at least in part support a metallic wool material whereby a controlled distribution of the shielding gas is effected. 20. A shielding apparatus for metal processing operations comprising: a housing having an enclosed upper region with a central bore therethrough which bore defines a conduit for the application of metal processing thermal excitation onto a selected location of a workpiece, said housing defining four separate chambers disposed about the central bore and through which separate chambers controlled inert gas streams are introduced, each separate chamber including nozzle means which directs the flow of inert gas toward the enclosed upper region of the housing, wherein said inert gas is diffused within each separate chamber, said chambers further including filter screen means which at least in part support a metallic wool material whereby a controlled distribution of the shielding gas is effected; a second chamber disposed about a perimeter defined by said housing and defining a negative pressure region for the removal of smoke or the like resulting from the metal processing operation; a skirt comprising a flexible material disposed about a perimeter defined by the separate chambers, said skirt physically isolating said chambers in which inert gas is introduced from the exhaust chamber and depending from the parameter defined by said chambers so as to cooperate with the workpiece directly below said housing chambers in order to substantially enclose the selected location for metal processing; a cooling means disposed in said first chamber about said central bore; and a plasma suppression nozzle disposed proximate said central bore to provide a high velocity off-axis jet of inert gas to forcibly blow away superheated vapors and gas from the selected location. 