A device for gripping the interior surface of a tube on which yarn or other material may be wrapped is provided with a hollow shaft in which is mounted an actuating member for sliding towards and away from a plug on the distal end of the shaft; a plurality of linkage arms are provided with a pair of arms being pivotally connected to each other with the remote ends of the arms respectively connected to the actuating member and the plug; the adjacent ends of the arms of each pair are pivotally connected to a pad of relatively narrow thickness so that when the actuating member moves away from the distal end of the shaft, the linkage arms will retract the pad to a position substantially within the hollow shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gripping device for hollow articles comprising a hollow shaft having a width that is less than the diameter of the articles to be gripped and having a closed end, a plurality of generally equally spaced slots provided in said shaft adjacent to said closed end, an actuating member disposed in said shaft and spaced from said closed end a selected distance so as to be movable toward and away from said closed end, a plurality of contact means, one for each said slot, each said contact means having a movable linkage means actuatable by said actuating member, each said linkage means including a first arm having one end pivotally attached to said actuating member and another end pivotally attached to said respective contact means, a second arm having one end pivotally attached to said respective contact means and another end pivotally attached adjacent said closed end of said shaft so that, with said shaft inserted into the interior of an article upon movement of said actuating member toward said closed end, each said linkage means will be moved to carry a respective contact means from a first position substantially within said shaft outwardly to a second position to engage an article's interior surface and, upon movement of said actuating member away from said closed end each said linkage means will be moved to carry a respective contact means from said second position to said first position, each said linkage means, when said respective contact means is in said first position, being disposed substantially within said shaft, said actuating member being spaced a distance from said closed end when said contact means is both in said first and in said second positions. 2. The gripping device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said actuating member is a piston slidably mounted in said shaft, said piston having a peripheral portion in engagement with the shaft surface. 3. The gripping device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said contact means is a pad member which, when said contact means is in said first position, is disposed within said shaft so that the external surface of said shaft is streamlined. 4. The gripping device as claimed in claim 3, wherein said pad member has an exterior tube-engaging side and an opposite side having a recess, a pin mounted in said recess connected to a said linkage means. 5. The gripping device as claimed in claim 2, wherein means for delivering fluid under pressure to said shaft are provided to move said actuator member toward said closed end. 6. The gripping device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said actuator member is connected to a fluid actuated piston and cylinder means for moving said actuator member toward and away from said closed end of said shaft. 7. The gripping device as claimed in claim 6 wherein said actuator member is connected by rod means to said piston and cylinder means. 8. The gripping device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said actuating member is adjustable in said shaft to accommodate arms of said linkage means of different length. 9. The gripping device as claimed in claim 6, wherein the relative positions of said actuator member and said piston and cylinder means are adjustable whereby said actuator member can accommodate differently sized linkage means. 10. The gripping device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said closed end is rounded to provide a streamlined shaft external surface. 11. The gripping device as claimed in claim 1, wherein said contact means are pivotally mounted on said linkage means. 