A material dispensing valve finding particular application in the robotic dispensing of sealants, adhesives, etc. in a desired pattern on a workpiece. The dispensing valve comprises a unique actuating arrangement wherein back to back pancake cylinders are moveably arranged within a housing and, depending upon how the cylinders are actuated, three or four dispense rate positions can be provided. The dispense rate positions of the valve are preferably coordinated with the rate of movement of the robotic system so that the dispense rate is appropriate for the rate of movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A material dispensing valve comprising: back to back, first and second cylinders comprising closed bodies defining respective internal first and second chambers, first and second pistons in sliding arrangement within said respective first and second internal chambers, said pistons dividing each such chamber into a first section adjacent one side of each respective piston and a second section adjacent the other side of each respective piston, first and second piston rods connected to said respective first and second pistons, said piston rods extending in opposing directions and outwardly of said bodies, said sections being arranged such that the second section of each chamber are arranged adjacent one another; a first port in said first body arranged to communicate with said first section of said first chamber; a second port in said first body arranged to communicate with said second section of said first chamber; a third port in said second body arranged to communicate with said second section of said second chamber; a fourth port in said second body arranged to communicate with said first section of said second body; said ports being adapted for alternatively pressurizing or exhausting chamber sections; a housing for supporting said bodies for movement relative thereto, said first piston rod being secured to said housing; means connected to said housing for rapidly and precisely dispensing said material without excess on a workpiece, said dispensing means including a valve for controlling the dispensing rate of said material and actuating means for selectively positioning said valve in at least three positions providing at least a high dispense rate for a first position, a low dispense rate for a second position and no dispense rate for a third position, said actuating means comprising said first and second cylinders wherein said valve is connected to said second piston rod; and control means for selectively controlling said actuating means for pressurizing or exhausting said respective sections of said cylinders through said ports to adjust said valve to a desired valve dispensing position wherein said first valve position is obtained by said first port being exhausted, said second port being pressurized, said third port being pressurized and said fourth port being exhausted, said second valve position is obtained by said first port being pressurized, said second port being exhausted, said third port being pressurized and said fourth port being exhausted, said third valve position is obtained by said first port being pressurized, said second port being exhausted, said third port being exhausted and said fourth port being pressurized whereby said valve is operationally responsive to the movement of said second piston rod to provide said at least three valve positions. 2. A dispensing valve as in claim 1 wherein said actuating means is adapted to provide four valve position including a fourth position providing a dispense rate intermediate said high and low dispense rates. 3. A dispensing valve as in claim 1 wherein said valve for controlling said dispensing rate comprises a dispensing passageway and a valve stem having a bulbous end arranged for movement within said passageway so that said bulbous end can move toward and away from a free end of said passageway and wherein said valve stem is connected to said second piston rod. 4. A dispensing valve as in claim 3 wherein means are provided for adjusting the stroke of said valve stem to set the overall limit of dispense rate for said respective valve positions. 5. A dispensing valve as in claim 1 comprising a material dispensing head of robot means for dispensing said material on a workpiece in a desired pattern. 6. A dispensing valve as in claim 5 including means for controlling said robot means and wherein said robot controlling means also provides said control system for selectively pressurizing or exhausting said respective sections of said respective cylinders, and wherein said control system is adapted to coordinate the respective valve position with the rate at which the dispense rate is moved across said workpiece so that the valve is in its high dispense rate position when the dispense head is moving at its highest speed and in its low dispense position when the dispense head is moving at its lowest speed. 7. A process for controlling the dispensing valve of claim 1 said process comprising selectively pressurizing or exhausting said ports of said cylinders whereby said dispensing valve can dispense at a desired dispense rate selected from a high dispense rate a low dispense, rate and a no dispense rate. 8. A process as in claim 7 wherein a medium dispense rate intermediate said low and high dispense rate is also selectively provided. 9. A process as in claim 7 wherein said dispensing valve comprises a dispensing valve in accordance with claim 6 and wherein said process further includes a step of coordinating the movement of said robot dispense head and the material dispense rate of said dispensing valve. 