A wide-throw parallel-action gripper of the split-rail design is disclosed. The gripper includes a pair of preloaded linear bearings which engage the outward surfaces of each rail and two roller bearings spaced on either side of a pinion, all mounted onto a pinion shaft, which engage the inward sides of each rail. A single finger is mounted at opposed ends of each rail and an actuator is connected either to one of the rails or to the central pinion. The actuators can include a pneumatic cylinder of electrical stepping motors or D.C. servo motors.
Claims We claim: 1. A gripper comprising: a frame; a parallel rack and pinion drive subassembly comprising a pinion rotatably mounted on said frame, a first elongate rail and a second elongate rail mounted parallel to each other in operable engagement on corresponding sides of said pinion, said rails having an inner bearing surface along at least part of the lengths thereof on the inner sides thereof facing said pinion and an outer bearing surface on the outer sides opposite said rail inner sides; a first gripper finger mounted to said first rail; a second gripper finger mounted to said second rail; a first linear bearing mounted on said frame for engaging one of said inner and outer bearing surfaces of said first rail; a second linear bearing mounted on said frame for engaging one of said inner and outer bearing surfaces of said second rail; and bearing means mounted on said frame for engaging the other of said inner and outer bearing surfaces of said first and second rails. 2. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second linear bearings engage the corresponding outer surfaces of said first and second rails and said bearing means engages the corresponding inner surfaces of said first and second rails. 3. A gripper as claimed in claim 2 wherein said bearing means comprises a roller bearing that engages both said inner bearing suface of said first rail and said inner bearing surface of said second rail. 4. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 wherein said bearing means comprises a roller bearing that engages both said inner bearing surface of said first rail and said inner bearing surface of said second rail. 5. A gripper as claimed in claim 4 wherein said pinion is rigidly mounted to a shaft that in turn is rotatably mounted on said frame; and wherein roller bearing is mounted on said pinion shaft. 6. A gripper as claimed in claim 5 wherein said bearing means comprises a first and a second roller bearing each mounted on said pinion shaft. 7. A gripper as claimed in claim 6 wherein said first and second roller bearings on either side of said pinion and wherein said first and second roller bearing each engages both said inner bearing surface of said first rail and said inner bearing surface of said second rail. 8. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 and further including means for preloading said first and second linear bearings. 9. A gripper as claimed in claim 8 and further including a pinion shaft; and means for mounting said pinion shaft on said frame in a direction that is perpendicular to said plane defined by said rails, said mounting means including at least one bushing mounted in said frame in an orifice having an elliptical cross section the major axis of which extends in the direction transverse to the longitudinal direction defined by said rails; and wherein said preloading means exerts a force in the transverse direction. 10. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second gripper fingers are mounted on either side of said pinion. 11. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 and further including power means attached to one of said rails for moving said one of said rails in the longitudinal direction. 12. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 and further including power means connected to said pinion for rotating said pinion and thereby simultaneously moving said rails in the longitudinal direction. 13. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 and further including a second pinion rotatably mounted on said frame, spaced longitudinally from said first mentioned pinion, and in operable engagement with both said rails. 14. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first and second rails each have a cross section that is rectangular with a V-notch in the outer side thereof which engages the corresponding one of said linear bearings. 15. A gripper as claimed in claim 14 wherein said first and second rails each further comprises an elongate toothed rack member integral therewith and having a toothed portion extending along the bottom thereof such that the toothed portion of said rack member engages one side of said pinion. 16. A gripper as claimed in claim 1 wherein said frame comprises a U-shaped housing having a base and substantially parallel, upstanding, sides integral with said base; and wherein said rails, said linear bearings and said bearing means are mounted between said upstanding sides. 17. A gripper for engaging an article comprising: a frame; first and second elongate rails defining a longitudinal axis, said rails mounted along side each other in a transverse plane in said frame for reciprocal movement in said longitudinal axis, said first and second rails comprising respectively first and second rack portions in a mutually opposing relationship in the transverse plane, and said rails comprising respectively first and second gripper means for together mutually engaging an article; said rails thus having outsides and insides in said transverse direction; a pinion rotatably mounted in said frame between and in operable engagement with said rack portions, the axis of said pinion being perpendicular to both said longitudinal axis and said transverse axis; and first, second and third bearing means mounted on said frame along said transverse direction for engaging said outsides and said insides of said first and second rails. 18. A gripper as claimed in claim 17 and further including means for preloading said first, second and third bearing means and said first and second racks in said transverse direction. 19. A gripper as claimed in claim 18 and further including means for mounting said pinion in said frame so as to permit linear movement of said pinion in the transverse direction, but to prevent movement of said pinion in the longitudinal direction. 20. A gripper as claimed in claim 19 wherein said first bearing means comprises a linear bearing mounted for engaging said outside of said first rail; said second bearing means mounted for engaging both said first rail inside and said second rail inside; and said third bearing means comprises a linear bearing mounted for engaging said outside of said second rail. 