A waterbase coating composition for use in protecting the threads of metal studs during automotive production line phosphating, electrostatic painting and welding. Composition also provides controlled lubricity as well as even torque during the tightening sequency of fasteners by robotics.
Claims I claim: 1. A protective, emulsified oil in water, dispersible, lubricant coating composition having a pH in the range of about 7.0 to 10, and capable of application and flow on a threaded solid substrate consisting essentially of: A. about 65 to 99% by weight of a composition comprising: (1) about 0.5 to 30 parts by weight of organic wax components having a melting point above 50.degree. C., said wax containing ester groups; (2) about 0.5 to 6 parts of a surfactant comprising 2 to 8% of carboxylic acid and about 1 to 5% of an amine, said acid and said amine forming a salt providing at least a portion of a surfactant; (3) about 10 to 30 parts of a coupling agent comprising a C.sub.5 -C.sub.30 liquid hydrocarbon coupling component and a C.sub.2 -C.sub.20 alcohol in the ratio of between 1:1 and 10:1 by weight respectively, selected from the group consisting of: mineral spirits, kerosene, ethylene glycol ether, butyl cellosolve, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, ethylene glycol monopropyl ether, propyl cellosolve, ethyl cellosolve, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, ethylene glycol monoacetate, diethylene glycol monoproprionate, diethylene glycol monoacetate, propylene glycol monoacetate, ethanol, isopropanol and isobutanol; and (4) about 30 to 97 parts of water the sum of all parts being equal to 100; and (B) about 3.5 to 9% total pigment comprising about 0.4 to 4% by weight carbon black. 2. A composition according to claim 1 in which said wax is a mixture of micro crystalline wax and wax comprising ester groups. 3. The lubricant coating composition of claim 1 wherein the coupling agent comprises propyl cellosolve and a liquid hydrocarbon solvent. 4. The lubricant coating composition of claim 1 further including about 5 to 20 by weight water. 5. The lubricant coating composition of claim 4, further including about 1 to 5 by weight butyl cellosolve. 6. The lubricant coating composition of claim 5 further including about 1 to 14 by weight additives selected from the group consisting of: silica, carbonates, talcs and inert materials. 7. The lubricant coating composition of claim 4, further including about 1 to 14% by weight additives selected from the group consisting of: silica, carbonates, talcs and inert materials. 8. A lubricant coating composition according to claim 1, wherein the amount of carbon black is about 1.4 to 2.8% by weight. 9. A lubricant coating composition according to claim 1, wherein the amount of carbon black is about 1.6 to 2.0 weight %. 10. A lubricant coating composition according to claim 1, wherein the carbon black is provided in a composition comprising 40% by weight of carbon black. 11. A method for coating threaded solid substrates, wherein said composition of claim 1, is applied to metal. 12. A method for coating threaded solid substrates, wherein said composition of claim 1 is applied by dipping. 13. A method for coating solid substrates, wherein said composition of claim 1 is applied by brushing. 14. A method for coating solid substrates, wherein said composition of claim 1 is applied by rolling. 15. A method for coating solid substrates, wherein said composition of claim 1 is applied by electrostatic spraying. 16. A method for coating solid substrates, wherein said composition of claim 1 is applied by hand spraying. 17. A method for protecting metal studs from the effects of phosphating, electrostatic painting and the high temperatures of welding as well as lubricating the studs comprising applying a coating of the composition of claim 1 to the studs. 18. A protective, emulsified oil in water, dispersible, lubricant coating composition having a pH of about 8.5, and capable of application and flow on a solid substrate comprising: A. about 95% by weight of a composition comprising: (1) about 19 parts microcrystalline wax and parts esterified wax; (2) about 3 parts oleic acid, 1 part triethanolamine and 2 parts morpholine; (3) about 7 parts propyl cellosolve and 9 parts mineral spirits; and (4) about 53 parts water; and (B). about 2% by weight carbon black. 19. A composition according to claim 1, wherein the surfactant is a reaction product of a carboxylic acid and at least one amine selected from the group consisting of morpholine, ethanolamine, triethanolamine, ammonia, diethanolamine and trithanolamine. 20. A composition according to claim 18, wherein the carboxylic acid is selected from the group consisting of oleic acid, isostearic acid and lauric acid. 21. A lubricant coating composition according to claim 1 wherein the pH of the composition is in the range of about 8.0 to 9.0. 