A carrier is provided to hold a central apertured disk while magnetic material is plated simultaneously on the annular surfaces on both sides of the disk. The carrier contains a first opening substantially the same diameter as the disk and a second opening formed about a center line offset from the center line of the first opening so as to form a recess around a portion of the edge of the first opening. The disk is inserted into the first opening and recess to block the flow of plasma and impurities from one side of the disk to the other during the disk surface coating. A two-part plug is provided for placement in and sealing the center aperture of the disk. One plug part contains a spring or magnetic means for holding the two parts together within the disk. The plug includes a knob for handling, carrying and mounting or removing the disk from the carrier. A plurality of openings is provided in the carrier to allow both surfaces of a corresponding plurality of disks to be coated simultaneously with magnetic media with plugs sealing the central aperture of each disk during processing.
Claims We claim: 1. In combination, a circular flat computer disk having a central aperture and an aperture-closing plug, said plug comprising: first and second imperforate plug portions; each of said plug portions having a circular peripheral edge portion abutting said sealing-off entry to said disk central aperture at opposite sides of said disk; means within at least one of said plug portions and extending within said disk central aperture for engaging the other of said plug portions for holding said plug portions together on opposite sides of said disk; and means on a surface of each of said plug portions outward of said disk central aperture for grasping said plug portions to insert and pull said plug portions from said disk central aperture. 2. The invention set forth in claim 1 in which said means for engaging said plug portions comprises a spring mounted in one of said plug portions and a tapered protrusion extending from the other of said plug portions, such that upon insertion of said plug portions into said disk central aperture, said spring engages said tapered protrusion and holds the plug portions together in said disk central aperture. 3. The invention set forth in claim 2 in which said spring is a triangularly shaped wire spring and wherein said one of said plug portions includes an annular ridge holding apices of said triangularly shaped wire spring and wherein said tapered protrusion of said other plug portion is cylindrical and includes an annular outer surface tapered inwardly toward a central axis of the protrusion from adjacent an outer edge of said protrusion such that said annular outer surface engages portions of said triangular-shaped wire spring between said apices. 4. The invention as set forth in claim 2 in which said means for engaging said plug portions further comprises a central protrusion on said one of said plug portions and a central aperture in said tapered protrusion sized to receive said central protrusion upon insertion of said plug portions in said disk central aperture. 5. The invention as set forth in claim 1 in which said means for grasping said plug portions comprises a knob extending from an exterior surface of each of said plug portions to facilitate insertion, handling and removal of said plug portions in and from said disk central aperture. 6. The invention as set forth in claim 1 in which said means for engaging comprises a permanent magnet in said one of said plug portions and a first magnetic pole piece in said other of said plug portions such that, upon insertion of said plug portions into said disk central aperture, said magnet and said first pole piece magnetically hold said plug portions together in said disk central aperture. 7. The invention as set forth in claim 6 wherein said one of said plug portions includes a second pole piece annularly encircling said permanent magnet and wherein, when said plug portions are magnetically held together, said first pole piece annularly encircles said second pole piece. 8. The invention as set forth in claim 7 in which said plug portions are nonmagnetic material and said first pole piece is of magnetic material. 9. The invention as set forth in claim 8 in which said first pole piece comprises: an open top cylindrical cup having a closed bottom, a cylindrical side wall and a cup plug extending from said closed bottom in a direction opposite said cylindrical side wall; a plug central bore in said one of said plug portions for receiving and holding said cup plug such that the open top of said cylindrical cup is coplanar with a surface of said one of said plug portions abutting peripheral edges of said disk central aperture; and wherein said second pole piece comprises an open top cylindrical cup having a closed bottom, an outer cylindrical side wall extending through said disk central aperture to a position such that a top of said cylindrical side wall abuts the closed bottom of said first pole piece cylindrical cup, and an interior cylindrical wall, said magnet being confined in and extending from said interior cylindrical wall coplanar with said top of said cylindrical wall of said second pole piece, whereby a magnetic closed circuit is provided between said magnet and said first and second pole pieces and the amount of magnetic flux minimized at the periphery of each of said plug portions. 10. The invention set forth in claim 9 in which said other of said plug portions includes a cylindrical inner wall having a beveled outer surface for insertion into said open top cylindrical cup of said first pole piece and an inner surface for receiving said outer cylindrical side wall of said second pole piece. 11. A closure plug for insertion into a central aperture of a magnetic disk, said plug comprising: a first imperforate plug portion having an outer periphery sufficient to seal off one side of a disk central aperture when inserted therein; a second imperforate plug portion having an outer periphery sufficient to seal off a second side of said disk central aperture when abutting an edge of said disk central aperture; means within at least one of said first and second plug portions for engaging the other of said first and second plug portions for holding said first and second plug portions on opposite sides of a magnetic disk; and means on an exterior surface of each of said first and second plug portions for engaging and pulling said first and second plug portions apart. 12. The invention set forth in claim 11 in which said means for engaging comprises a spring means in said first plug portion and a protrusion in said second plug portion, said spring means and said protrusion being engagable to hold said first and second portions together. 13. The invention set forth in claim 11 in which said means for engaging comprises magnetic means in said first and second plug portions. 14. The invention set forth in claim 13 in which said magnetic means comprises a permanent magnet within said first plug portion and a first magnet pole piece in said second plug portion. 15. The invention set forth in claim 14 in which said first magnet pole piece surrounds said permanent magnet in assembled position to form a magnetic circuit within said first and second plug portions. 16. The invention set forth in claim 15 further comprising a second magnet pole piece in said first plug portion surrounding said permanent magnet and being in contact with an inboard portion of said first magnet pole piece. 