A system for manipulating articles, such as irregular mailpieces in the U.S. Postal Service mail processing system, receives an agglomeration of parcels into a first subsystem where the parcels are separated and are passed to a second subsystem where each parcel is manipulated until its addressee label is directed upward. The first subsystem includes a plurality of individually rotatable cylindrical rollers which form a support surface for the parcels. The rollers produce translation of a parcel by cooperative motion or separation of parts of a pile of parcels by differential motion. The second subsystem includes a high-friction, flexible conveyor belt which in a first mode supports a parcel and in a second mode forms a downward loop in which a parcel can be rotated and inverted. The parcels in both subsystems are manipulated by a five-axis robotic arm which is responsive to a machine vision system measuring the position and physical characteristics of each parcel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for overturning generally flat articles, said apparatus comprising: a flexible, endless conveyor belt; first and second means for producing longitudinal motion of said conveyor belt, each of said first and second means having a longitudinal axis; means positioned under said conveyor belt intermediate said first and second belt motion producing means for supporting said belt in a substantially horizontal plane and comprising a pair of interdigitated support members pivoted about said axes, respectively; first and second drive means coupled, respectively, to said first and second belt motion producing means; means for displacing said supporting means and said first and second belt motion producing means such that said conveyor belt forms a downward loop between said first and second belt motion producing means under the weight of an article thereon, said means for displacing said supporting means providing rotational motion to said supporting means; and means for controlling said first and second drive means such that the rotational velocity and direction of each of said belt motion producing means is individually selectable, said controlling means producing motion of said belt in said downward loop such that said article thereon may be overturned. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for displacing said first and second belt motion proxucing means provides lateral movements of said belt motion producing means. 3. A system for handling articles comprising: means for dispensing a plurality of said articles in an agglomeration; means for viewing said articles and for generating signals indicative of physical characteristics of said articles detected by said viewing means; means responsive to said signals for singulating individual articles from said agglomeration; and means responsive to said signals for overturning said singulated articles with predetermined surfaces of said singulated articles are visible by said viewing means, said overturning means including a flexible, endless conveyor belt; first and second means for producing longitudinal motion of said conveyor belt; means positioned under said conveyor belt intermediate said first and second belt motion producing means for supporting said belt in a substantially horizontal plane; first and second drive means coupled, respectively, to said first and second belt motion producing means; means responsive to said signals for displacing said supporting means and said first and second belt motion producing means such that said conveyor belt forms a downward loop between said first and second belt motion producing means under the weight of an article thereon, said means for displacing said supporting means providing rotational motion to said supporting means; and means for controlling said first and second drive means such that the rotational velocity and direction of each of said belt motion producing means is individually selectable, said controlling means being responsive to said signals for producing motion of said belt in said downward loop such that said article thereon may overturned. 4. The system according to claim 3 wherein said means for displacing said first and second belt motion producing means provides lateral movements of said belt motion producing means. 5. The system according to claim 3 further including means responsive to said signals for manipulating said articles in said agglomeration and said singulated articles. 6. The system according to claim 5 wherein said manipulating means includes a robotic manipulator capable of movement along five axes. 7. The systme according to claim 6 wherein said conveyor belt includes a surface having a multiplicity of substantially equal-sized nubs protruding upwardly therefrom said nubs supporting said articles above said surface of said conveyor belt. 8. The system according to claim 7 wherein said nubs are uniformly positioned in rows and columns along rectangular coordinates. 9. The system according to claim 8 wherein a terminal end of said robotic manipulator includes a fork-like tool having tines which, in a first position of said terminal end, may be introduced between said rows of said nubs and, in a second position of said terminal arm, may be introduced between said columns of said nubs, said tines being dimensioned to fit between said surface of said conveyor belt and an article supported by said nubs. 10. The system according to claim 3 wherein said singulating means includes: a plurality of cylindrical rollers having substantially equal cross section, said rollers having their central axes parallel to each other and located along a substantially horizontal plane, each roller being positioned in close proximity to at least one adjacent roller, wherein the topmost surfaces of the totality of said rollers form a support surface for said articles; a plurality of drive means coupled respectively to said plurality of rollers for rotating said rollers about their central axes; and means for controlling said drive means such that the rotational velocity and direction of each of said rollers is individually selectable. 11. The system according to claim 10 wherein the surfaces of said rollers include a high-friction substance. 12. The system according to claim 10 further including shield means located between each of said adjacent rollers and below said support surface for preventing said articles from falling between said rollers. 13. The system according to claim 10 wherein said shield means comprises a plurality of slats fabricated of stainless steel. 14. The system according to claim 3 wherein said articles are mailpieces and said predetermined surfaces include addressee labels. 15. The system according to claim 3 wherein said viewing means includes a machine vision system comprising a light projector and a television camera. 