A high response servodriven robotics tool carrier assembly is especially well adapted for carrying a tool, such as an arc welding torch. The robotics tool carrier assembly mounts the torch such that its tip is on the center line of the arm rotation axis of a robot welding machine. The robotics tool carrier assembly modulates the coarse robot movements which are programmed into the robot arm. A tilt linkage is used to tilt the torch about its tip so as to avoid obstructions. The tilt linkage is mounted upon a Z slide which adjusts the distance between the tip of the torch and a work surface. The Z slide is in turn mounted upon an X member movably mounted to an arm support so as to modulate the torch in a cross seam direction. The robotics tool carrier assembly mounts upon a robotics arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotics tool carrier assembly comprising: (a) an arm mount adapted to mount the assembly on a robotics arm; (b) an X member pivotally supported by said arm mount; (c) a Z slide supported by said X member; (d) a tilt structure supported by said arm mount by way of said X member and said Z slide; (e) said tilt structure comprising a tilt linkage including two primary links pivotably attached to said Z slide and two secondary links, and at least one of said secondary links is pivotably attached to both of said primary links; (f) a tilt motor operable to tilt said tilt structure relative to said arm mount such that the primary links may be pivoted about a Y1 axis perpendicular to a Z axis, said tilt motor and said tilt structure together allowing change in the angle of the primary links relative to a work surface; (g) an X motor operable to move said X member relative to said arm mount such that the position of the primary links is adjusted in an X axis perpendicular to said Y1 axis and said Z axis; (h) a Z motor operable to move said Z slide by a drive pulley relative to said arm mount such that the tilt linkage is adjusted in said Z axis; and (i) a Z position sensor for sensing the position of said Z slide relative to said X member, said Z position sensor being driven by said drive pulley. 2. A robotics tool carrier assembly comprising: (a) a mount; (b) an X member pivotably supported by said mount; (c) a tilt structure supported by said mount by way of said X member; (d) said tilt structure comprising a tilt linkage including two primary links driven from a tilt motor and two secondary links, said two secondary links each pivotably attached to at least one of said primary links; (e) said tilt motor operable to tilt sand tilt structure relative to said mount such that the primary links may be pivoted in a Y1 axis perpendicular to a Z axis; and (f) an X motor operable to pivot said X member about a Y2 axis relative to said mount such that the primary links are adjusted in an X axis perpendicular to said Y1 axis, said Y2 axis being parallel to said Y1 axis. 3. The robotics tool carrier assembly of claim 1 further comprising a tool mounted on said tilt linkage and having a tip for movement normal to a work surface while said tool is directed upon the work surface. 4. A robotics tool carrier assembly comprising: (a) a mount; (b) an X member pivotably supported by said mount; (c) a Z slide slidably mounted to said X member; (d) a tilt structure supported by said mount by way of said X member; (e) said tilt structure comprising a tilt linkage including two primary links and two secondary links; said two secondary links each pivotably attached to at least one of said primary links; (f) a tilt motor operable to tilt said tilt structure relative to said mount such that the tilt structure may be pivoted about a Y1 axis perpendicular to a Z axis; said tilt motor and said tilt structure together allowing change in the angle of the tilt structure relative to a work surface; (g) an X motor operable to pivot said X member about a Y2 axis relative to said mount such that the X member position is adjusted in an X axis perpendicular to said Y1 axis, said Y2 axis being parallel to said Y1 axis; and (h) a Z motor operable to slide said Z slide relative to said mount such that the Z slide position is adjusted in said Z axis, and wherein said primary links are pivotably attached to said Z slide.2/ 5. The robotics tool carrier assembly of claim 4 further comprising: a tilt position sensor for sensing the position of said tilt linkage; a Z position sensor for sensing the position of said Z slide relative to said X member; and an X position sensor for sensing the position of said X member relative to said arm mount. 