Flashing waste along a rubber or synthetic resin molded article is removed by initially subjecting the article to contact with a cryogenic coolant to embrittle the flashing and then directing the jet of a cryogenic coolant against the article, preferably at the base of the flashing so that the embrittled waste is broken away.
Claims I claim: 1. In a method of removing a flashing from an article having a flashing waste projecting from a body of the article and in which the flashing can be embrittled by a cryogenic coolant and the embrittled flashing can be broken away from the body, the improvement which comprises the steps in combination of: initially embrittling said flashing by subjecting said flashing to a cryogenic coolant; and thereafter training a jet substantially consisting exclusively of said cryogenic coolant upon said flashing and controlling the flow velocity of said jet so that the flashing waste is broken away solely by the force and energy of said jet after embrittlement of said flashing waste, at least a portion of said jet being deflected onto said flashing initially to embrittle said flashing before the full jet is directly trained on said flashing to cut away said flashing. 2. The improvement defined in claim 1 wherein said jet is a full cross section jet. 3. The improvement defined in claim 1 wherein said jet has a divergence in the direction of said article of 0.degree. to 10.degree.. 4. The improvement defined in claim 3 wherein said jet is a parallel jet having a divergence of 0.degree.. 5. The improvement defined in claim 1, further comprising relatively displacing said article and said jet during training of said jet upon said flashing so that said jet sweeps along said flashing to break said waste away from said body. 6. The improvement defined in claim 1 wherein said jet is formed in a nozzle to which said cryogenic coolant is fed under high pressure. 7. The improvement defined in claim 6 wherein said nozzle has an orifice diameter between 0.1 to 3 mm and said coolant is fed to said nozzle with a pressure between 10 bar and 800 bar. 8. The improvement defined in claim 7 wherein said pressure is between 10 bar and 400 bar. 9. The improvement defined in claim 1 wherein said jet is trained exclusively upon a region of said flashing at which said flashing is attached to said body. 10. The improvement defined in claim 1 wherein said cryogenic coolant is a liquefied gas. 11. The improvement defined in claim 10 wherein said cryogenic coolant is liquid nitrogen. 12. The improvement defined in claim 1 wherein said jet is formed by a nozzle, one of said nozzle and said article being provided with a holder, further comprising displacing said holder in accordance with a predetermined program by a robotic mechanism along a predetermined path to shape said jet along said flashing. 13. The improvement defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of pulsating said jet. 