A direct drive robot which includes a pedestal having two motors which rotate around a common axis to directly drive rotation of first and of second linking arms which are rotating in a plane perpendicular to this pedestal. The first, inner link is preferably driven through a column directly driven by a first motor rotor, the column supporting the inner end of the link. The second, outer link is driven by the second coaxial direct drive motor through a simple, highly-tensioned belt and pulley arrangement. As a result of this direct drive arrangement, movement is provided about two separate parallel axes by two arms arranged perpendicular to the first axis which mounts the two major driving motors of the robot. These two arms are linked together between this major pedestal and the end effector of the robot, centralizing the driving motors at the main stabilizing pedestal, while providing rapid rotational movement around each of the two axes. The first axis is defined by the major pedestal, the second axis is defined by the junction between the inner and outer linking arms which connect the pedestal to the end effector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated direct drive robotic manipulator providing rotation about first and second parallel axes, (J1, J2) said robot comprising first (30) and second (62) motors rotating about a common axis (J1) which is in common with the first axis (J1) of rotation of the manipulator, said common axis (J1) being perpendicular to the floor (10) on which the robot stands, the manipulator including a pedestal (16) comprising a base portion and a fixed central support column, said pedestal being coaxial with the first axis, the base portion (12, 14) of the pedestal including said first (30) and second (62) motors, a first linking arm (18) mounted atop said pedestal on a first column (40) rotating around and extending along the outside of said fixed central support column (54) for movement with said first column in a first plane perpendicular to the first axis (J1) about a joint centered at said first axis, said first motor (30) including a rotor (46) directly coupled to said first linking arm (18) through said first column (40) for controlling said first linking arm's movement in said first plane, the end of said first linking arm (18) distal from the first axis supporting a second linking arm (20) and including a joint for allowing rotation of said second linking arm (20) about said second axis (J2), said second motor being coupled to said second axis joint through connecting means including a shaft (56) extending along the length of and rotating inside said fixed central support column (54) of said pedestal to rotate said second linking arm (20) about said second axis joint. 2. A robotic manipulator as in claim 1, the base portion of said pedestal comprising a floor stand for said robot. 3. A robotic manipulator as in claim 2 wherein said second motor is located in said pedestal adjacent said first motor, the rotor of said second motor being directly coupled to said shaft which is coupled to means for translating motion of said second motor rotor to said second axis joint for moving said second arm supported at said second axis joint. 4. A robotic manipulator as in claim 3 wherein said motion translating means comprise a pair of drums and a band movable with said drums, one of said drums being mounted coaxially with said first and second motors at said first axis and directly driven by said second motor, the other of said pair of drums being mounted coaxial with said second axis, said second linking arm having an inner end directly coupled to and driven by said second drum for movement in a second horizontal plane parallel to said first horizontal plane. 5. A robotic manipulator as in claim 4 wherein said band comprises two sections, each section comprising more than one-half of a complete band loop, ends of each said section being fastened to separate ones of said pair of drums. 6. A robotic manipulator as in claim 5 wherein each of said belt sections is of sufficient length to extend between said pair of drums and about one-half the circumference of each said drum, the belt section ends being fastened to corresponding positions on the sides of said drums facing the same side of said robot arm whereby tension is maintained on said bands. 7. A robotic manipulator as in claim 3 wherein a distal end of said second linking arm includes a movable quill mounted at a third joint, said third joint including means for providing movement of said quill along a vertical third axis, and means for providing rotational movement of said quill around said third vertical axis parallel to said first and second axis. 8. A robotic manipulator as in claim 7 wherein the distal end of said second linking arm includes said means for providing movement along said third joint including a housing mounting said quill, said housing including the stator of a third motor, the rotor of said third motor being mounted coaxially with said third axis, and means coupling said rotor and said quill, rotation of said rotor causing vertical movement of said quill along said third axis. 9. A robotic manipulator as claimed in claim 8 wherein said coupling means comprise a plurality of tracks threaded on the outside of said quill, an internally threaded drive nut surrounding a portion of the quill and rotating with the rotor, and a plurality of balls captured between the nut and the quill for translating rotation of said nut into vertical movement of the quill. 10. A robotic manipulator as in claim 9 wherein said drive nut includes external threads on the outside of said nut and inside of said housing, said balls traveling through said internal and external threads to complete the path of movement of the balls. 11. A robotic manipulator as in claim 8 wherein said means for causing said rotational movement about the third axis comprise a fourth motor mounted near the second axis of rotation, a pulley coupled to and surrounding said quill, and a belt coupling said motor and pulley, rotation of said motor causing rotation of said quill about said third axis. 12. A robotic manipulator as in claim 11 including means for coupling said pulley to said quill comprising a bearing housing surrounding said quill, at least three vertical lines of balls captured between the outer surface of the quill and an inner surface of said bearing housing, said lines of balls supporting said quill for vertical movement relative to the housing of the quill, at least one of said lines of balls being captured between a groove on the surface of said quill and the internal surface of said bearing housing and coupling rotational movement about a third axis to said quill. 13. An articulated direct drive robotic manipulator providing rotation about first and second parallel axes, said robot comprising first and second motors rotating about a common axis which is in common with the first axis of rotation of the manipulator, said common axis being perpendicular to the floor on which the robot stands, the manipulator including a pedestal coaxial with the first axis and terminating in a base portion including said first and second motors, said second motor being mounted adjacent said first motor, a first linking arm mounted atop said pedestal for rotational movement in a first plane perpendicular to the first axis about a first joint centered at said first axis, said first motor including a rotor directly coupled to said first arm for controlling said rotational movement in said first plane, the end of said first linking arm distal from the first axis supporting a second linking arm and including a joint rotatable about said second axis, said rotor of said second motor being directly coupled at the first joint to motion translating means for translating rotation of the rotor of said second motor to said second axis joint to rotate said second joint and said second arm, said motion translating means comprising a pair of drums and a band movable with said drums, one of said drums being mounted coaxially with said first and second motors at said first axis and directly driven by said second motor, the other of said pair of drums being mounted coaxial with said second axis and directly coupled to said second arm, said second arm rotating with rotation of said other drum, a distal end of said outer linking arm including a movable hollow quill mounted on a third joint including means for providing movement of said quill along a vertical third axis, and a fourth joint comprising means for providing rotational movement of said quill around said third axis parallel to said first and second axis, the means for providing movement at said third joint further including a housing mounting said quill, said housing including the stator of a third motor, the rotor of said third motor being mounted coaxially with said third axis, and means coupling said rotor and said quill, rotation of said rotor causing vertical movement of said quill along said third axis, means coupled to an end effector at a working end of said quill comprising a modular fifth axis device driven by a motor power source inserted in the hollow barrel of said quill, said modular device being movable in planes incorporating said third axis of rotation to provide an added degree of freedom for operations of said robotic manipulator. 