A circuit breaker panelboard modular assembly employs a plurality of interdependent molded plastic and metal parts to multifunctionally adapt breakers of different ratings for electrical connection within the panelboard enclosure. Anti-turn connector connects the strap terminals. Captive bolts or plug-in connections are employed to attach the breakers to the power bus. A novel concealed hinge construction is used to connect the panelboard door to the panelboard housing and the breakers are individually identified within the housing by extruded plastic circuit markers.
Claims Having described our invention, what we claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A circuit breaker panelboard assembly comprising: closure means housing at least one main circuit breaker and at least one branch circuit breaker; access means movably arranged on said closure means providing access to said main and said branch circuit breaker from outside of said closure; mounting means within said closure means supporting said branch circuit breaker and providing electrical connection between said branch circuit breaker and electrical bus bars within said closure means connectable with an external circuit; and shield means intermediate said access means and said main and branch circuit breakers preventing contact with electrical terminals on said main and branch circuit breakers; said mounting means comprising an adapter member having an insulative cover and an insulative base, said adaptor cover having first means integrally formed therein providing access to means electrically connecting said branch circuit breaker with a branch strap within said adapter base. 2. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 1 further including second means integrally formed on said adapter cover providing access to means electrically connecting said branch circuit breaker with one of said bus bars. 3. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 1 wherein said adapter cover includes protrusions and said adapter base includes corresponding slots receiving said protrusions and holding said adapter cover fixedly to said adapter base. 4. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 3 further including at least one branch strap locating pin integrally formed within a bottom surface of said adapter base. 5. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 1 further including a hollow cylinder integrally formed within said bottom surface and extending external to said adapter base. 6. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 4 wherein said locating pin has first and second diameters seating first and second sized holes through said branch strap. 