A method of and apparatus for carrying out machine vision of an object for obtaining object data therefrom in which the object is illuminated by frequency swept ultrasonic stress wave energy from a transmitting and receiving transducer array, or by light energy from a source, reflected signals are received respectively by the array and an optical-electronic camera, respective images in terms of the data contained in these received signals are fed to a processor in which the data is analysed to make use of the best data derived from both sources of illumination and the resulting data compared with reference data to provide stimuli controlling a reject device and/or positional adjustment devices directing the array and/or the camera.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for carrying out machine vision of an object in order to obtain data representative of selected parameters pertaining to the object, said method comprising: illuminating the object with at least two different kinds of energy supplied by two different sources so that each different kind of energy is reflected from the object; deriving, from each kind of energy reflected from the object, respective signals each containing data representative of at least one of the selected parameters, wherein, with respect to the at least one of the selected parameters, the signals derived from one kind of energy contain more accurate data than do the signals derived from the other kind of energy; processing the derived signals to obtain, from each kind of energy reflected from the object, a respective initial set of parameter-representative data elements, with at least one given data element representative of at least a given one of the selected parameters being absent from, deficient in, or requiring confirmation in one of the initial sets; selecting the at least one given data element from the other initial set in order to provide a combined set of data elements which constitute more accurate representations of the selected parameters than do either initial set; and applying the combined set of data elements to control performance of a given operation with respect to the object. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of processing comprises deriving a respective image of the object from the signals derived from each kind of energy, and analyzing the images by machine means to produce the initial sets of data parameters. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein: said step of deriving is carried out by means of two energy receiving means each responsive to a respective one of the two kinds of energy; the given one of the selected parameters identifies the position of the object; and said step of applying comprises using the parameter-representative data element representative of the given one of the selected parameters form one initial set for directing toward the object the energy receiving means responsive to the kind of energy from which signals are processed to produce the other initial set. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein the energy from which the one initial set is obtained is stress wave energy, and the energy from which the other initial set is obtained is light energy. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein the energy receiving means directed toward the object in said step of applying produces a signal containing a data element representative of a selected dimension of the object. 6. A method according to claim 4 wherein the energy receiving means directed toward the object in said step of applying produces a signal containing a data element which is more accurately representative of the position of the object. 7. A method according to claim 4 wherein the light energy has wave lengths within the visible range. 8. A method according to claim 4 wherein the stress wave energy has an ultrasonic frequency. 9. Apparatus for effecting machine vision of an object comprising: (a) a plurality of sources of illumination of different kinds providing illumination of the object, (b) a plurality of receiving means appropriate to said sources respectively for receiving energy reflected from the object and providing respective received signals; (c) means for processing said received signals to provide respective sets of data elements representing respective parameters pertaining to the object, and means for sensing the data elements of each set and determining and selecting, with respect to at least one parameter, the data element of the one of the two sets which constitutes a more accurate representation of that parameter; (d) action performing means for acting in a manner determined by at least the selected data element of said one set and by at least one data element of the other one of the two sets. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein the sources of illumination comprise a source of stress wave energy, and a source of light energy and wherein the means for processing the received signals derived from the stress wave energy provides a positional data parameter concerning the object and wherein there is provided means for directing the receiving means for the light energy responsive to said positional data parameter to direct said receiving means towards the object. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the source of stress wave energy comprises a transmitting means providing a beam which is convergent to a focus or focal region spaced longitudinally along an axis extending from the transmitting means into the field of view. 12. Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the stress wave energy has an ultrasonic frequency. 13. Apparatus according to claim 10 wherein the source of electro-magnetic wave energy radiates light energy. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the light energy has wave lengths within the visible range. 15. Apparatus according to claim 9 wherein said receiving means effectively form a (first) image in respect of illumination of the object by the transmitted (stress wave) signal, and also includes an electronic optical camera means to form a (second) image in respect of illumination of the object by the light source. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein there is further provided action performing means for acting on or in relation to the object in a mode determined by the character of the object data from either or both of said images. 17. Apparatus according to claim 15 including means for imposing predetermined characteristics upon at least part of the signals giving rise to one or both of the images in respect of at least one of the parameters pertaining thereto and selected to establish that the image produced by the received signal concerned shall contain the required object data. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the means for imposing the predetermined characteristic comprises means for frequency modulating the stress wave transmitted signal in a mode such that the frequency difference between the transmitted signal and the received signal, due to the elapse of transit time between initial radiation of the signal and receipt of the reflection, is representative of the range or distance. 19. Apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the means for imposing a predetermined characteristic comprises means to establish that the transmitted signal is radiated by way of a beam having a maximum value in the central region of said beam and a minimum value at each of two opposite boundaries thereof in a reference plane, and means for scanning the beam angularly in said plane through the field of view between boundaries thereof. 20. Apparatus according to claim 15 wherein (a) one of the sources of illumination comprises a transmitting means adapted for transmitting frequency modulated stress wave energy and includes an oscillator, an array of transmitting transducer elements providing a beam, connecting means connecting said oscillator with said transducer means, and scanning means for moving the beam angularly from a datum position in the field of view to effect scanning of the field of view to illuminate, successively, respective sectors of the field of view over respective scan periods, said scanning means including (i) time delay means in said connecting means imposing increments of time delay in radiation of said wave energy from said transducer elements systematically along said array in a manner to determine the angular position of said beam, (ii) electronic means for rapidly cyclically varying the magnitude of said increments of time delay to vary the angular position of said beam and establish scanning of the field of view, (b) the image forming means comprises receiving means including means providing a correspondingly frequency modulated locally generated signal, and modulator means connected operatively in said receiving means and with said means providing said locally generated frequency modulated signal to produce an object data signal at a frequency equal to the frequency difference between the received signal and the locally generated signal, the mode of frequency modulation of the latter being such that said frequency difference is representative of the range of the object, (c) the means for analysing the (first) image provide for segregation of the object data signals due respectively to objects of different ranges, and due respectively to objects in different ones of said successive sectors, (d) there is further provided action performing means operative in response to object data derived from at least one of said images and comprising directing means responsive to the object data to direct the camera means or the transmitting means towards any object producing object data of a predetermined character. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the time delay means imposes increments of time delay in radiation of said wave energy from said transducer elements systematically along said array to determine axial position of a focus or focal region of the beam. 22. Apparatus acording to claim 20 wherein the means for analysing the (first) image produced by the stress wave energy receiving means includes (i) frequency responsive means for effecting spectral analysis of the difference frequency signals and providing output signals pertaining to objects in respective range bands, (ii) means for collecting said output signals over each of said scan periods pertaining to respective sectors of the field of scan, (iii) time compensating means operative in combination with the two last said means to compensate for transit time of the transmitted and received signals in the field of view and establish the correct correlation between the collected output signals and said scan periods. 