A gear train is assembled by vibratory feeding each of its gears into a nest in overlapping meshed aligned spaced relation. A fastening nut is vibratory fed in alignment with the journal for the gear which is distal the bracket to which the gear train is to be secured. The bracket includes a plurality of journals each mating with the journal bearing of a corresponding gear located in the nest. A robotic arm carries the bracket and inserts the journals into the gears in an axial direction, passing the journal for the distal gear through that gear bearing and into the nut for capturing the overlapped nested gears between the nut and the bracket.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling a plurality of gears in meshed spaced relation onto a support from which extends in a given direction at least one gear journal for receiving said gears, one gear being positioned in said assembly distal said support relative to the other gears, said other gears being captivated by said one gear and said support, said one gear having a journal bearing mating with one of said at least one gear journal, said method comprising the step of: continuously feeding said gears in abutting relation into their corresponding assigned location and into in said meshed relation; continuously feeding journal fastening means to a given location in alignment with said one gear bearing distal said support relative to the one gear when said one gear bearing is engaged with said one of said at least one journal, said fastening means being adapted to lock to said engaged one journal; and passing said one of said at least one journal through the journal bearing of said one gear and then engaging that one passed journal with said fastening means, thereby locking said gears to said support. 2. The method of claim 1 further including the additional step of displacing said fastening means, passed journal and one gear from said given and assigned locations and then repeating the above steps. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said passing step includes the step of frictionally sliding said one journal into said engagement with said fastening means. 4. Method of meshing a plurality of gears, comprising the steps of: locating one of at least two gears in a first preassigned location; and feeding and vibrating a second of said at least two gears into a second preassigned location against the one gear, and continually vibrating the second gear, thereby rotating said second gear relative to said one gear when said gears contact and applying a force on said second gear, thereby moving it into a meshed relationship with said one gear when teeth of the second gear are aligned in meshed relation with the teeth of the one gear. 5. Apparatus for assembling a plurality of gears to a support from which at least one gear journal and at least one assembly securing means extend in a given direction, one gear of said plurality of gears having a bearing which mates with said at least one gear journal, and another gear having a bearing which mates with said securing means, said apparatus comprising: a first alignment means for receiving and locating said plurality of gears in preassigned relative locations in meshed relation, fastening means for capturing the gears between said support and said fastening means; a second alignment means for receiving and locating said fastening means at a given location relative to said first alignment means, said fastening means being adapted to mate and engage with said securing means; and means for inserting the at least one gear journal into its corresponding mating gear bearing, for inserting the securing means into its corresponding mating gear bearing, and for engaging said securing means with said received fastening means, said second alignment means being located and the received fastening means and said support being positioned and arranged relative to the gears so as to capture the gears between said support and said fastening means when the fastening means engages said securing means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further including feed means for feeding and meshing said gears in their assigned locations in the first alignment means, and for feeding said fastening means into its respective assigned location in the second alignment means. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said feed means includes vibrating means aligned with respective corresponding ones of said alignment means in vibration isolation therefrom for vibratory feeding said gears and fastening means into their corresponding alignment means and for meshing at least a portion of said gears during said feeding. 8. Apparatus for meshing a plurality of gears, comprising: alignment means for receiving and locating at least two of said gears in preassigned relative locations at which said at least two gears are meshed; means for placing one of said at least two gears in its preassigned location in said alignment means; and means for feeding and vibrating a second of said at least two gears into its preassigned location against the one gear in the alignment means, and for continually vibrating the second gear to rotate said second gear relative to said one gear when said gears contact, and to apply a force on said second gear to move it into its preassigned meshed location when said teeth on said second gear are aligned in meshed relation with the teeth of the one gear. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for locating said one gear includes means for feeding and vibrating said one gear into its preassigned relative location. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said feeding and vibrating means includes a vibrating sloping track for supporting and vibrating a column of said second gears. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said feeding and vibrating means includes at least two vibrating, sloping tracks, each track corresponding to a separate, different gear of said at least two gears, each track including means for supporting a column of gears and for feeding said column, one gear at a time, to said alignment means in a preassigned relative location. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of said at least two gears has a journal bearing, and further including fastening means; and an alignment means for receiving and locating the fastening means in alignment with said journal bearing. 13. Apparatus for assembling a plurality of gears in meshed spaced relation, comprising: alignment means for receiving and locating said gears in their corresponding assigned locations in said meshed relation; and feed means for initially vibratory feeding said gears to said alignment means and for then vibratory rotating at least one of said gears into said meshed relation with another of said plurality of gears in response to said vibratory feeding after the at least one gear is fed into said alignment means. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further including means for assmbling said gears to a support from which extends in a given direction at least one gear journal adapted to receive said gears, one gear being positioned in the assembly comprising the plurality of gears and support distal said support relative to the other gears of the assembly, said other gears being captivated by said one gear and said support, said one gear having a journal bearing mating with said at least one gear journal, alignment means for receiving and locating journal fastening means in alignment with the bearing of said one gear, said fastening means receiving and locking to said one journal distal said support relative to the one gear when engaged with said one journal; and positioning means to releasably secure said support thereto for passing said one journal through the journal bearing of said one gear and into locked engagement with said fastening means to thereby lock all said gears to said support. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein each said gear mates with and rotates about a corresponding, separate different journal, and said fastening means locking only to the one journal corresponding to said one gear. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said support includes a plurality of gear journals in an array extending therefrom parallel to said one journal, each of said gears comprises a compound gear having at least a pair of connected concentric gears of different diameters and having a common bearing for receiving a corresponding journal of and said array, said alignment means includes means for receiving and locating said gears in said array aligned with said corresponding journals. 17. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said alignment means includes a plurality of gear locating shoulders each corresponding to a separate, different one of said gears, said shoulder each locating its corresponding gear in a given plane relative to said given direction in abutting relationship thereto, and a plurality of gear locating walls, each gear locating wall being normal to one of said shoulders and abutting a gear surface of its corresponding gear located radially from that corresponding gear's bearing to align that gear relative to the other gears of said plurality of gears. 18. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said gears each include an annular array of teeth, said alignment means includes a plurality of recesses, each recess corresponding to a separate, different one of said gears, at least two recesses of said plurality of recesses each including a first locating wall for locating its corresponding gear in a first direction and a second locating wall for locating its corresponding gear such that the teeth of the respective corresponding gears of the at least two recesses mesh. 19. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said vibrating feed means includes means for spacing said feed means in vibration isolation relative to said alignment means. 