The invention comprises an improved end effector for a robot which is particularly advantageous in applications such as placing flat pack integrated circuits on circuit boards. The end effector includes a vacuum-operated quill for picking up the integrated circuit from a predetermined location. A pressure spring mechanism is included in the end effector permits the flat pack to be held in the desired position with a predetermined force by utilizing the robot arm to compress the pressure spring a predetermined amount. Once the integrated circuit is positioned on the circuit board, the circuit is released and the quill moved away from the board a predetermined distance by a linear actuator included in the end effector without any motion of the robotic arm.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector for a robot for placing small components such as flat packs on a surface, comprising: a housing adapted to be fixed to the movable arm of said robot, said housing including first and second bearings in spaced-apart relationship; a hollow quill slidably mounted in said bearings and having its bore open at the working end of said quill; means for coupling a selectively actuable vacuum source to said inner bore; a train of force responsive and force producing elements in coaxial relation with said quill and including: a collar fixed to said quill; a linear bidirectional actuator in coaxial and slidable relation to said quill and coupled to selectively actuable force-source means; resilient means biasing said collar and quill in a first direction corresponding to extending said quill and toward said actuator; tactile sensor means interposed in said train and subject to changing forces applied to said quill in a direction opposite said first direction in accordance with said quill being moved by said robot into a position placing a component held by the working end of said quill, said changing forces being used to initiate further action of said end effector including actuating said linear bidirectional actuator to move said quill in a direction opposite said first direction independent of any motion of said robot arm. 2. An end effector for use in a robot in accordance with claim 1 wherein said bidirectional actuator means further includes: (a) a cylinder having a first substantially constant radius inner wall, first and second end portions whose inner wall has a second radius less than said first substantially constant radius; (b) a piston having (1) a circular outer surface for mating with said inner wall of said cylinder, (2) first and second substantially flat end surfaces, (3) first and second rod-like portions respectively extending outward from said first and second end surfaces, the outer surfaces of said rod-like portion mating with said inner wall of said end portions; (c) means for selectively applying pressure to said first and second substantially flat end surfaces of said piston, thereby causing said piston to selectively move toward said first and second end portions. 3. An end effector for use in a robot in accordance with claim 2, wherein said bidirectional actuator further includes: (a) first and second "O" ring members respectively positioned around said first and second rod-like portions to form seals between said rod-like portions and the inner walls of said end portions; (b) a third "O" ring member positioned between said inner wall of said cylinder and said outer surface of said piston to form a seal therebetween. 4. An end effector for use in a robot in accordance with claim 1, wherein said tactile sensor means comprises a piezoelectric sensor positioned around said quill and between said collar and said bidirectional actuator. 5. An end effector for use in a robot in accordance with claim 1, wherein said quill includes: (a) a tube-like first portion having an inner bore terminating at a first end, the inner wall of said first end including a threaded portion; (b) a second tube-like portion having a first end having a smaller diameter than the remainder of said second tube-like portion, the outer surface for said first end being threaded to mate with said first end of said first portion and a groove spaced from said first end, thereby assuring that excessive side loading will break at said groove. 6. An end effector for use in a robot in accordance with claim 1, wherein: (a) said housing includes a slot substantially parallel to said quill; (b) said collar includes a pin extending outwardly therefrom and through said slot; and (c) sensor means responsive to the position of said pin, thereby providing an indication of the tactile force applied to said quill. 