A rotatable mount includes a support arm with a bearing block at one end having a cylindrical aperture therethrough in which is rotatably received a cylindrical housing. A fixed flange and a threadedly removable flange on the housing cooperate axially to retain the housing in the aperture. Annular surfaces on the housing and bearing block cooperate to form an annular chamber which provides continuous communication between a first passage in the housing and a second passage extending through the bearing block and the support arm. The housing has an axial bore in which is received a docking body to which associated welding apparatus can be quickly manually mounted and demounted. The housing is electrically insulated from the docking body. The passages may be used for removing smoke from a welding apparatus. The docking body has a longitudinal channel which communicates with a transverse opening through the housing externally of teh bearing block of accommodating cables, wires or the like for associated auxiliary equipment which might be mounted on the housing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rotatable mount comprising a support having a cylindrical aperture therethrough, a cylindrical housing coaxially receivable in said aperture in a mounting position for rotation with respect to said support, means retaining said housing against axial movement from said mounting position with respect to said support, said housing have an axial bore therethrough open at both ends thereof, an equipment body axially received in said bore and extending between and through the open ends of said bore and adapted to have an associated tool coupled thereto, and means on said housing for securing said body thereto. 2. The rotatable mount of claim 1, wherein said retaining means includes annular flanges on said housing engageable with said support adjacent to the opposite ends of said cylindrical aperture. 3. The rotatable mount of claim 2, wherein one of said annular flanges is threadedly engaged with said housing. 4. The rotatable mount of claim 3, and further including means for locking said threaded flange against rotation with respect to said housing. 5. The rotatable mount of claim 1, and further including bearing means disposed between said support and said housing. 6. The rotatable mount of claim 5, and further including seal means for sealing said bearing means. 7. The rotatable mount of claim 1, wherein said axial bore is circularly cylindrical in shape. 8. The rotatable mount of claim 1, wherein said housing extends beyond the ends of said support and has a transverse opening therein externally of said support and communicating with said bore. 9. A rotatable mount comprising a support having a first fluid passage therethrough, a housing having a second fluid passage therethrough, means rotatably mounting said housing on said support in a use condition, and means defining an annular chamber encircling said housing providing continuous communication between said first and second passages with said first fluid passage entering said chamber radially thereof and said second fluid passage entering said chamber axially thereof when said housing is mounted in the use condition thereof regardless of the rotational position thereof. 10. The rotatable mount of claim 9, wherein said support has a cylindrical aperture therethrough, said housing being cylindrical in shape and receivable coaxially in said aperture, said chamber defining means including two axially spaced-apart annular surfaces respectively formed on said support and said housing and extending radially thereof for cooperation therewith to define said annular chamber. 11. The rotatable mount of claim 9, wherein said support includes an elongated support arm and a bearing block carried by said support arm at one end thereof and having an aperture therethrough for receiving said housing therein, said first fluid passage extending through said support arm and said bearing block. 12. The rotatable mount of claim 9, and further including an input fitting carried by said housing and communicating with the outer end of said second fluid passage, and an output fitting carried by said support and communicating with the outer end of said first fluid passage. 13. A rotatable docking mount for arc welding apparatus adapted to be supplied with utilities such as welding potential, arc shielding gas, cooling fluid and consumable wire electrode, said docking mount comprising in combination: a support having a cylindrical aperture therethrough, a cylindrical housing coaxially receivable in said aperture in a mounting position for rotation with respect to said support, means retaining said housing against axial movement from said mounting position with respect to said support, said housing having an axial bore therethrough, a docking body freely receivable axially in said bore and having utilities passages therethrough, said docking body being provided at one end thereof with connecting means communicating with said passages and adapted for connection to associated utilities delivery means, said docking body being provided at the other end thereof with coupling means for accommodating quick manual mounting and demounting of associated welding apparatus and providing the associated utilities thereto. 14. The rotatable docking mount of claim 13, and further including positioning means carried by said docking body and engageable with said housing for limiting the depth of insertion of said docking body in said bore, accurately to position said docking body with respect to said housing. 15. The rotatable docking mount of claim 13 wherein said housing has a length greater than the axial length of said cylindrical aperture, and said housing has a transverse opening therein externally of said support communicating with said axial bore, said docking body having an elongated channel formed therein and extending longitudinally thereof for communication with said opening in said housing. 16. The rotatable docking mount of claim 13, wherein said support has a first fluid passage therethrough, said housing has a second fluid passage therethrough, and further including means providing continuous communication between said first and second passages when said housing is mounted in the mounting position thereof regardless of the rotational position thereof. 17. The rotatable docking mount of claim 16, and further including an input fitting carried by said housing and communicating with said second fluid passage at the outer end thereof. 18. The rotatable docking mount of claim 13, and further including locking means for preventing relative movement of said docking body and said housing. 19. The rotatable docking mount of claim 13, whrein said docking body and said housing are formed of metal, and further including means electrically insulating said docking body from said housing. 