A system for applying sealant material to the welded seams of an automobile body including a reciprocating piston pump for supplying the material under pressure from a reservoir to an overhead distribution manifold. From the manifold the material is supplied to a plurality of extrusion guns through drop lines, each of which includes a pressure regulator and volumetric metering gear pump for maintaining a constant flow rate to the guns irrespective of pressure changes which may occur in the distribution manifold.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for dispensing viscous sealant material onto a welded seam of an automobile, which system comprises a distribution manifold extending generally parallel to an automobile production line, a plurality of extrusion guns, a plurality of drop lines, each of said drop lines having upper ends connected to said distribution manifold and lower ends connected to one of said extrusion guns, a primary pump for supplying sealant to said distribution manifold, a plurality of volumetric metering pumps, one of said volumetric metering pumps being motor driven and operatively connected to each one of said drop lines so as to accurately control the rate of flow of sealant from said distribution manifold to one of said extrusion guns, and a plurality of pressure regulators, one of said pressure regulators being located in each of said drop lines between said distribution manifold and one of said volumetric metering pumps. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said primary pump is a reciprocating piston pump. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein each of said volumetric metering pumps is a motor driven gear pump. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein each of said volumetric metering pumps is driven by a DC electric motor. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein each of said DC electric motors is a two speed electric motor. 6. The system of claim 3 wherein said extrusion gun is a manually operated gun having a valve contained therein, said valve being controlled by a trigger associated with said gun. 7. The system of claim 4 wherein each of said DC electric motors is a variable speed motor, and a trigger controlling the speed of said DC electric motor. 8. A method of applying viscous sealant material to a welded seam of an automobile, which method comprises, supplying sealant material from a bulk sealant reservoir to a distribution manifold at a pressure substantially greater than that of the atmosphere, supplying said sealant material from said distribution manifold to a plurality of sealant dispensing extrusion guns, each of said extrusion guns containing a flow control valve, passing said sealant material from said distribution manifold to each of said extrusion guns through a pressure regulator to substantially reduce the pressure of said sealant material, and metering the flow of sealant material from a pressure regulator to each of said extrusion guns by means of a motor driven metering pump so as to maintain an even flow of sealant material from said extrusion guns upon actuation of said flow control valves irrespective of pressure changes which may occur in said sealant material contained in said distribution manifold. 