A robotic cell, or work area, especially useful for education. The cell has a plurality of interchangable work surfaces for mounting objects that the robot manipulates. Students, researchers, or other workers can thus set up separate experiments that need not be torn down each time a different user begins work with the cell. The cell has safety switches that encourage a user, when near the robot, to keep a hand on the robot so as not to be accidentally injured by the robot's motion. There is also a dead man switch effective to disenable the robot entirely, after a short time delay. The cell has a pneumatic control circuit that enables a user to position the robot's gripper arm at positions intermediate of fully up and fully down.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic cell for educational and laboratory work, comprising: a support table having a frame and upper surface means for supporting selected objects, said frame supporting said upper surface means; a robot having moveable arm means, said robot mounted to said support table, said arm means for manipulating said selected objects on said upper surface means; said upper surface means including at least one removable modular section, said removable modular section readily interchangeable with one of a plurality of modular sections; said support table including housing means, said housing means storing a plurality of modular sections beneath said upper surface means; each of said plurality of modular sections capable of supporting a discrete group of selected objects; whereby said plurality of interchangeable modular sections allow quick and efficient transposing of selected objects subject to manipulation by said robot arm means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said upper surface includes a plurality of removable modular sections, each of said removable modular sections readily interchangeable with one of a plurality of modular sections; said support table housing said plurality of modular sections beneath said upper surface means. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein at least two of said plurality of removable modular sections are of a different size. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said modular sections are generally rectangular, planar sections; said frame being dimensioned to receive and frictionally hold said removable modular sections of said upper surface means. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing means comprises a plurality of support members connected to said frame beneath said upper surface means, said plurality of modular sections slidably engaging, and held by, said support members, said plurality of modular sections being housed in a horizontal position, one above the other whereby a given section can readily be interchanged with said upper surface modular section. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said moveable arm means includes a gripper arm, said gripper arm being moveable being two extreme positions, and pneumatic means for interposing said gripper arm between said extreme positions. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said pneumatic means controls the vertical position of said gripper arm, said pneumatic means including a plurality of control valves, said pneumatic means driving a piston which positions said gripper arm. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said pneumatic means includes a first valve, a second valve, and a plurality of pneumatic lines, said first valve primarily controlling the direction of travel of said gripper arm between said extreme positions, said second valve being capable of controlling with precision the position of said gripper arm intermediate said extreme positions, said valves being multiport devices, each valve capable of changing the input and output configuration thereof, said pneumatic valves controlling the configuration of said pneumatic lines, whereby said pneumatic means is capable of a plurality of configurations controlling the positioning of said gripper arm. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for disenabling operation of said robot responsive to a user being within a preselected area of said robot; interactive switch means for overriding said disenabling means, whereby said disenabling means and said interactive switch means act in concert to allow operation of said robot, thereby protecting the operator. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said disenabling means comprises a preselected safety area positioned on the floor in proximity of said support table, said safety area being a pressure sensitive switch disenabling operation of said robot upon a user entering said safety area. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said interactive switch is positioned upon said moveable arm means, said interactive switch requiring a user to continuously engage said switch to operate said robot, whereby a user is constantly aware of the position of said robot, thereby avoiding serious bodily harm to said user. 12. A robotic cell for educational and laboratory work, comprising: a support table having a frame and upper surface means for supporting selected objects, said frame supporting said upper surface means; a robot having movable arm means, said robot mounted to said suport table, said arm means for manipulating said selected objects on said upper surface means; said upper surface means including at least one removable modular section, said removable modular section readily interchangeable with one of a plurality of modular sections, each of said plurality of modular sections capable of supporting a discrete group of selected objects; said modular sections being generally rectangular, planar sections; said support table including housing means, said housing means storing a plurality of modular sections beneath said upper surface means; said support table housing said plurality of modular sections beneath said upper surface means; said frame being dimensioned to receive and frictionally hold said removable modular sections of said upper surface means; said housing means comprising a plurality of support members connected to said frame beneath said upper surface means, said plurality of modular sections slidably engaging, and held by, said support members, said plurality of modular sections housed in a horizontal position, one above the other; said movable arm means including a gripper arm; said gripper arm being movable between two extreme positions, and pneumatic means for interposing said gripper arm between said extreme positions; said pneumatic means controlling the vertical position of said gripper arm, said pneumatic means including a plurality of control valves, said pneumatic means driving a piston which positions said gripper arm; said pneumatic means including a first valve, a second valve, and a plurality of pneumatic lines, said first valve primarily controlling the direction of travel of said gripper arm between said extreme positions, said second valve being capable of controlling with precision the position of said gripper arm intermediate said extreme positions, said valves being multiport devices, each valve capable of changing the input and output configuration thereof, said pneumatic valves controlling the configuration of said pneumatic lines; and a means for disenabling operation of said robot responsive to the user being within a preselected area of said robot with interactive switch means for overriding said disenabling means, said disenabling means comprising a preselected safety area positioned on the floor in proximity of said support table, said safety area being a pressure sensitive switch disenabling operation of said robot upon the user entering said safety area; said interactive switch being positioned upon said movable arm means, said interactive switch requiring a user to continuously engage said switch to operate said robot, whereby a user is constantly aware of the position of said robot, thereby avoiding serious bodily harm to said user. 