A test station for testing memory modules uses multiple personal computer (PC) motherboards for performing functional tests on the modules. The motherboards are mounted upside-down with the solder-side up at the desktop level of the test station frame. One or more of the memory-module sockets on each motherboard is removed. A test adaptor board is plugged into the holes of the removed socket, but mounted on the reverse, solder side of the motherboard rather than the component side. The test adaptor board has a test socket that receives a module being tested. An overhead robotic arm picks up memory modules from an input tray and inserts them into test sockets for testing by the motherboards. Since the cables, components, and expansion boards of the motherboards are hidden below the solder-side surface of the motherboards, while the test adaptor board is above, the overhead robotic arm can easily navigate to the test socket without obstruction. Modules that pass are inspected in transit when the robotic arm holds the module in front of a camera that sends images to an image inspection processor.
Claims We claim: 1. A parallel test system for testing memory modules comprising: a plurality of motherboards, the motherboards being main boards for computers using memory modules as a memory, the motherboards having a component side and a solder side, the component side having integrated circuits mounted thereon and expansion sockets for expansion boards; test adaptor boards, mounted to the solder side of the motherboards, the test adaptor boards having test sockets for receiving memory modules for testing by the motherboards, each test adaptor board for electrically connecting a memory module inserted into the test socket to a motherboard attached to the test adaptor board, the motherboard using the memory module inserted into the test socket as a portion of the memory of the motherboard; a main system interface, coupled to the plurality of motherboards, for commanding the motherboards to test memory modules inserted into the test sockets and for receiving test results from the motherboards; and a robotic arm, responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting memory modules into the test sockets; whereby the robotic arm inserts memory modules into the test sockets on the test adaptor boards mounted on the solder side of the motherboards. 2. The parallel test system of claim 1 wherein each motherboard is mounted with the solder side facing upwardly, the expansion boards being below the motherboard; wherein the robotic arm moves above the plurality of motherboards, the robotic arm reaching the test sockets on the test adaptor boards mounted above the solder side of the motherboards, whereby movement of the robotic arm is not obstructed by the expansion boards and integrated circuits mounted on the component side of the motherboards. 3. The parallel test system of claim 2 further comprising: an input tray for holding untested memory modules, the robotic arm picking a memory module from the input tray and inserting the memory module in one of the test sockets for testing by one of the motherboards; and an output tray for holding tested memory modules, wherein the main system interface commands the robotic arm to pull a memory module from a test socket attached to a motherboard that sent a passing test result to the main system interface and place the memory module on the output tray, whereby the robotic arm moves memory modules from the input tray to motherboards for testing, and moves passing memory modules from the motherboards to the output tray. 4. The parallel test system of claim 3 further comprising: a repair tray for holding faulty memory modules, the main system interface commanding the robotic arm to pull a memory module from a test socket attached to a motherboard that sent a failing test result to the main system interface and place the memory module on the repair tray, whereby failing memory modules are moved by the robotic arm to the repair tray. 5. The parallel test system of claim 4 further comprising: a camera, positioned to capture an image of a memory module held by the robotic arm; an image processor, coupled to receive the image from the camera, for comparing the image to a reference image and determining when the image differs sufficiently from the reference image to fail a visual inspection; a VI tray for holding memory modules that fail the visual inspection; wherein the robotic arm moves the memory module to the VI tray when the image processor indicates that the memory module failed the visual inspection, whereby visual inspection is performed by the parallel test system. 6. The parallel test system of claim 5 wherein the visual inspection is performed immediately after the robotic arm pulls the memory module from the test socket for a motherboard but before the robotic arm places the memory module on the output tray, whereby the visual inspection is performed in-transit. 7. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the robotic arm is attached to a robotic arm assembly that travels in a length direction on a y-rail, and travels in a width direction on an x-rail, the robotic arm moving the memory module up and down to remove and insert the memory module from the test socket, whereby the robotic arm is an x-y-z tracked robotic system. 8. The parallel test system of claim 2 further comprising: a second robotic arm, controlled by the main system interface, for moving memory modules for testing by the plurality of motherboards, whereby two robotic arms are used. 9. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the motherboards are personal computer PC main boards and the expansion boards include a network interface expansion board and the plurality of motherboards includes at least 4 motherboards, whereby the parallel test system capable of testing at least 4 memory modules at one time. 10. The parallel test system of claim 3 wherein the input and output trays are coupled to stackers, the stackers for moving multiple trays of memory modules for exposing memory modules to the robotic arm. 11. The parallel test system of claim 3 further comprising: a leakage tester, coupled to the main system interface, having a test socket for receiving a memory module inserted by the robotic arm, the leakage tester for performing leakage tests on the memory module before the robotic arm moves the memory module to the motherboards for functional testing, whereby leakage testing is performed before functional testing by the motherboards. 12. The parallel test system of claim 11 wherein the leakage tester performs serial presence detect SPD programming. 13. A method for testing memory modules using motherboards at a robotic test station comprising: for each motherboard in a plurality of motherboards communicating with a main system interface: when the motherboard reports a passed-test status to the main system interface: commanding a robotic device to pick up a tested memory module from a test socket on a test adaptor board that electrically connects the tested memory module to the motherboard; commanding the robotic device to move the tested memory module to an output tray, and to place the tested memory module in the output tray; commanding the robotic device to pick up an untested memory module and move the untested memory module to the motherboard, the robotic device inserting the untested memory module into the test socket for the motherboard; resetting the motherboard and initializing a test program on the motherboard, the test program testing the untested memory module; when the motherboard reports a failed-test status to the main system interface: commanding a robotic device to pick up the tested memory module from the test socket on the test adaptor board that electrically connects the tested memory module to the motherboard; commanding the robotic device to move the tested memory module to a repair tray, and to place the tested memory module in the repair tray; commanding the robotic device to pick up an untested memory module and move the untested memory module to the motherboard, the robotic device inserting the untested memory module into the test socket for the motherboard; and resetting the motherboard and initializing a test program on the motherboard, the test program testing the untested memory module; whereby the robotic device inserts and removes memory modules from test sockets on test adaptor boards attached to the plurality motherboards at the robotic test station. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein when the motherboard reports a passed-test status to the main system interface: capturing an image of the tested memory module as the robotic device moves the tested memory module from the motherboard to the output tray; comparing the image to a reference image and signaling a visual failure when the image differs by a predetermined amount from the reference image; commanding the robotic device to divert the tested memory module from the output tray to a VI tray when the visual failure is signaled, whereby in-transit visual inspection is performed. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein commanding the robotic device to pick up the untested memory module, and move the untested memory module to the motherboard further comprises: (1) commanding the robotic device to move to an input tray and pick up the untested memory module from the input tray; commanding the robotic device to move the untested memory module to a leakage tester and insert the untested memory module into a test socket at the leakage tester; commanding the leakage tester to perform a leakage test on the untested memory module; when the leakage tester reports that the untested memory module has passed the leakage test, commanding the robotic device to pick up the untested memory module from the test socket on the leakage tester and move the untested memory module to the motherboard, the robotic device inserting the untested memory module into the test socket on the test adaptor board at the motherboard; when the leakage tester reports that the untested memory module has failed the leakage test, commanding the robotic device to pick up the untested memory module from the test socket on the leakage tester and move the untested memory module to the repair tray, and commanding repeating from step (1) with another untested memory module from the input tray, whereby the leakage test is performed before testing by the motherboards. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising: when the motherboard reports a busy status to the main system interface: incrementing a wait counter for the motherboard; when the wait counter exceeds a wait limit: ending testing of the tested memory module by the motherboard; commanding the robotic device to pick up the tested memory module from the test socket on the test adaptor board that electrically connects the tested memory module to the motherboard; commanding the robotic device to move the tested memory module to the repair tray, and to place the tested memory module in the repair tray; commanding the robotic device to pick up an untested memory module and move the untested memory module to the motherboard, the robotic device inserting the untested memory module into the test socket for the motherboard; and resetting the motherboard and initializing a test program on the motherboard, the test program testing the untested memory module; whereby testing is halted when the wait limit is exceeded. 17. A robotic multiple-motherboard memory tester comprising: main system means for controlling testing of memory modules on multiple motherboards; motherboard means, controlled by the main system means, for executing a test program on a memory module inserted into a test socket means; test adaptor board means, mounted on the motherboard means, for electrically connecting the test socket means to a memory bus means on the motherboard; output means for receiving memory modules that have passed the test program; and robotic means, controlled by the main system means, for grasping a memory module and inserting the memory module into the test socket means, the robotic means also for grasping and removing the memory module from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the memory module to the output means when the motherboard indicates to the main system means that the memory module has passed the test program; wherein the robotic multiple-motherboard memory tester has a plurality of the motherboard means, each motherboard means having an attached test adaptor board means with a test socket means, each motherboard means for executing the test program on a different memory module in parallel with other motherboard means, whereby parallel testing of memory modules is performed. 18. The robotic multiple-motherboard memory tester of claim 17 further comprising: visual inspection means, coupled to the robotic means, for capturing an image means for representing a visual image of the memory module, for determining when the image means fails inspection; whereby visual inspection is performed. 19. The robotic multiple-motherboard memory tester of claim 18 wherein the visual inspection means further includes command means for commanding the robotic means to divert the memory module to a visual tray means for receiving memory modules that fail inspection. 20. The robotic multiple-motherboard memory tester of claim 19 wherein the motherboard means has a component-side means for mounting many components mounted thereon, and a reverse-side being relatively free of components; wherein the test adaptor board means is mounted to the reverse-side and not to the component-side means, whereby the test adaptor board means is reverse-mounted. 