A method and apparatus for continuously casting metal strip are provided, in which molten metal is introduced between a pair of parallel chilled casting rolls via an elongate metal delivery nozzle disposed above and extending along the nip between the casting rolls to form a casting pool supported on the rolls and the rolls are contra-rotated to produce the solidified strip. The molten metal is then delivered into a trough of the nozzle through an entry nozzle having an upper inlet end for receiving molten metal from a tundish, and a lower outlet end extending into the trough of the delivery nozzle, and the outlet end of the entry nozzle has a bottom wall, elongated side walls spaced inwardly from the side walls of the delivery nozzle and outlets for molten metal in the side walls.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of starting-up casting with a twin roll caster, the caster comprising a pair of parallel casting rolls forming a nip between them, an elongate metal delivery nozzle disposed above and extending along the nip between the casting rolls for supplying molten metal into the nip to form a casting pool and comprising an elongate trough with side openings for delivery of molten metal into the casting pool, an entry nozzle for supplying molten metal to the metal delivery nozzle, and a tundish for supplying molten metal to the entry nozzle, the method comprising preheating to a temperature of at least 1000.degree. C. the tundish, the metal delivery nozzle and the entry nozzle, positioning the preheated metal delivery nozzle relative to the casting rolls so that it is in its position disposed above and extending along the nip, fitting the preheated entry nozzle to the bottom of the preheated tundish, and lowering the tundish toward the delivery nozzle such that the entry nozzle extends in to the delivery nozzle to enable the supply of molten metal from the tundish to the metal delivery nozzle via the entry nozzle. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the metal delivery nozzle is positioned relative to the rolls before the entry nozzle is fitted to the tundish. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the delivery nozzle is positioned relative to the casting rolls while the casting rolls are at an assembly station and the assembled rolls and delivery nozzle are then moved to a casting station at which the tundish and entry nozzle are lowered to cause the entry nozzle to enter the delivery nozzle. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tundish, the metal delivery nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 5. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the delivery nozzle is positioned relative to the casting rolls while the casting rolls are at an assembly station and the assembled rolls and delivery nozzle are then moved to a casting station at which the tundish and entry nozzle are lowered to cause the entry nozzle to enter the delivery nozzle. 6. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the preheated tundish is brought to a position directly above is casting position and is charged with molten metal before the preheated delivery nozzle is positioned relative to the rolls or the entry nozzle is fitted to the tundish. 7. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the preheated tundish is brought to a position directly above its casting position and is charged with molten metal before the preheated delivery nozzle is positioned relative to the rolls or the entry nozzle is fitted to the tundish. 8. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the preheated tundish is brought to a position directly above its casting position and is charged with molten metal before the preheated delivery nozzle is positioned relative to the rolls or the entry nozzle is fitted to the tundish. 9. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the tundish, the metal deliver nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 10. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the tundish, the metal deliver nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 11. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the tundish, the metal delivery nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 12. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the tundish, the metal deliver nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 13. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the tundish, the metal deliver nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 14. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the tundish, the metal deliver nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 15. A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the tundish, the metal deliver nozzle and the entry nozzle are preheated at respective preheat stations remote from their casting positions and are brought to their casting positions after preheating. 16. A method of starting-up casting with a twin roll caster, the caster comprising a pair of parallel casting rolls forming a nip between them, an elongate metal delivery nozzle disposed above and extending along the nip between the casting rolls for supplying molten metal into the nip to form a casting pool and comprising an elongate trough with side openings for delivery of molten metal into the casting pool, an entry nozzle for supplying molten metal to the metal delivery nozzle, and a tundish for supplying molten metal to the entry nozzle, the method comprising preheating to a temperature of at least 1000.degree. C. the tundish, the metal delivery nozzle and the entry nozzle, bringing the preheated tundish to a position directly above its casting position, charging the tundish with molten metal and subsequently positioning the preheated metal delivery nozzle relative to the casting rolls so that it is in its position disposed above and extending along the nip, fitting the preheated entry nozzle to the bottom of the preheated tundish, and lowering the tundish toward the delivery nozzle such that the entry nozzle extends into the delivery nozzle to enable the supply of molten metal from the tundish to the metal delivery nozzle via the entry nozzle. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the delivery nozzle is positioned relative to the casting rolls by placing the delivery nozzle into an assembly with the casting rolls while the casting rolls are at an assembly station and then moving the assembled rolls and delivery nozzle to a casting station beneath the tundish charged with molten metal prior to fitting the preheated entry nozzle to the tundish. 