Systems, methods and apparatus are disclosed for bonding a plurality of substrates via a solventless, curable adhesive. At least one of the substrates has a deformation temperature below the activation temperature of the adhesive. A workpiece is assembled from a plurality of substrates with the curable adhesive disposed therebetween. Pressure is applied to the workpiece and the workpiece is irradiated with variable frequency microwave energy. The workpiece is swept with at least one window of microwave frequencies selected to heat the adhesive without heating the substrates above their respective deformation temperatures.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for applying pressure to a workpiece irradiated with microwave energy comprising: a frame formed of a top frame portion and a bottom frame portion that are pivotally connected to each other, said frame being in an open position when said top frame portion is pivoted out of contact with said bottom frame portion, and said frame being in a closed position when said top frame portion is pivoted into contact with said bottom frame portion; a diaphragm assembly situated within said frame and having an upper membrane and a lower membrane, said upper membrane being attached to said top frame portion and said lower membrane being attached to said bottom frame portion, at least one of said membranes being substantially microwave transparent and flexible to conform to a shape of the workpiece, said membranes separating such that the workpiece may be placed between said upper membrane and said lower membrane when said frame is in said open position; a manifold positioned adjacent to substantially all of a perimeter of said membranes and between said membranes to form a chamber between said membranes and said manifold for receiving the workpiece, said manifold having a plurality of apertures adjacent to said chamber for evacuating air from within said chamber and around the workpiece such that said membranes are drawn into a contacting relationship with each other in an area between said workpiece and said manifold; and a sealing member that presses said upper membrane into contact with said manifold to facilitate the formation of a seal between said upper membrane and said manifold when said frame is in said closed position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said frame is coated with an electrical insulator to suppress arcing when said frame is exposed to microwave energy. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said frame is formed of substantially microwave transparent material. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of said membranes is textured to enhance the ability to draw a vacuum within said chamber and around the workpiece. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said membranes are formed from silicone rubber. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of said membranes includes at least one bulge to accommodate the shape of the workpiece. 7. A system for bonding a workpiece having a plurality of substrates, said system comprising: a plurality of processing stations including: an assembly station at which the substrates are assembled into a workpiece, a pressure application station which includes a device for removing air from around the workpiece, a microwave energy application station at which variable frequency microwave energy is applied to bond the substrates to one another, and a cooling station at which the workpiece cools after the application of microwave energy; and a carrier for carrying the workpiece, said carrier including: a frame formed of a top frame portion and a bottom frame portion that are pivotally connected to each other, said frame being in an open position when said top frame portion is pivoted out of contact with said bottom frame portion, and said frame being in a closed position when said top frame portion is pivoted into contact with said bottom frame portion, a diaphragm assembly situated within said frame and having an upper membrane and a lower membrane, said upper membrane being attached to said top frame portion and said lower membrane being attached to said bottom frame portion, at least one of said membranes being substantially microwave transparent and flexible to conform to a shape of the workpiece, said membranes separating such that the workpiece may be placed between said upper membrane and said lower membrane when said frame is in said open position, a manifold positioned adjacent to substantially all of a perimeter of said membranes and between said membranes to form a chamber between said membranes and said manifold for receiving the workpiece, said manifold having a plurality of apertures adjacent to said chamber for evacuating air from within said chamber and around the workpiece such that said membranes are drawn into a contacting relationship with each other in an area between said workpiece and said manifold, and a sealing member that presses said upper membrane into contact with said manifold to facilitate the formation of a seal between said upper membrane and said manifold when said frame is in said closed position; and a transport mechanism for moving said carrier between said plurality of processing stations. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said transport mechanism includes a conveyer for moving said carrier from said assembly station to a pressure application station where a device for removing air applies a vacuum to said chamber. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein said microwave energy application station includes an irradiating device for irradiating the workpiece with microwave energy. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said irradiating device comprises a mechanism for sweeping the workpiece with at least one window of microwave frequencies selected to heat an adhesive in the workpiece without heating other portions of the workpiece above a predetermined temperature. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein said frame is coated with electrical insulator to suppress arcing when said frame is exposed to microwave energy. 12. The system of claim 7, wherein said frame is formed of substantially microwave transparent material. 13. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein at least one of said membranes is textured to enhance the ability to draw a vacuum within said chamber and around the workpiece. 14. The system of claim 7, wherein said membranes are formed from silicone rubber. 15. The system of claim 7, wherein at least one of said membranes includes at least one bulge to accommodate the shape of the workpiece. 