An adaptive agent including an artificial neural network having a plurality of input nodes for receiving input signals and a plurality of output nodes generating responses. A situation value unit receives a plurality of the responses and generating a situation value signal. A change sensor coupled to receive the situation value signal generates an output signal representing a change of the situation value signal from a prior time to a current time. A connection coupling the change sensor output to one of the input nodes of the artificial neural network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adaptive agent comprising: an artificial neural network having a plurality of sensor input nodes for receiving input signals representing physical objects or activities and a plurality of output nodes generating responses to external devices for causing the external devices to perform physical acts, wherein the neural network provides a weighted coupling between the input nodes and the output nodes; a situation value unit receiving signals from a plurality of the responses and generating a situation value signal and generating a situation change output signal representing a change of the situation value signal from a prior time to a current time; and a connection coupling the situation change output signal to one of the sensor input nodes of the artificial neural network to provide a stimulus to the neural network. 2. The agent of claim 1 wherein the neural network comprises an adaptive critic. 3. The agent of claim 1 wherein the situation value signal comprises an n-dimensional vector representing a current state of the output nodes. 4. The agent of claim 1 wherein the situation value signal comprises a single value determined from a combination of the current values generated at the output nodes. 5. The agent of claim 1 wherein one or more of the network output nodes indicates matching between a stimuli applied to the nodes. 6. The agent of claim 1 wherein the magnitude of the situation value signal is equal to the value of the highest-valued response generated by the output nodes. 7. The agent of claim 1 wherein the output of the situation change output signal is further coupled to provide a learning signal for the artificial neural network. 8. The agent of claim 1 wherein the input nodes further comprise: a first set of sensor input nodes coupled to receive a number of input signals representing an example object; and a second set of sensor input nodes coupled to receive a number of input signals representing an examined object, wherein at least one of the responses represents a match between the example object and the examined object. 9. The agent of claim 8 wherein one of the responses represents a name of the example object, wherein the name comprises an abstraction of preselected properties of the object, and wherein the properties are selected as properties relevant to perform a matching between the example object and the examined object. 10. The agent of claim 9 wherein the response representing a name comprises a sequence of signals generated on one or more of the output nodes. 11. The agent of claim 9 wherein the response representing a name comprises a plurality of parallel signals generated on a plurality of output nodes. 12. The agent of claim 1 wherein the agent is implemented in software program devices in a memory of a computer system. 13. The agent of claim 1 wherein the artificial neural network comprises a linear network formed without hidden nodes. 14. The adaptive agent of claim 1 further comprising: a learning process coupled to the neural network and operable to modify the weighted coupling each time step, wherein the situation change output signal is further coupled to the learning process. 15. A method of training an artificial neural network to emit a response indicating when a sample pattern matches a stimulus pattern, the method comprising the steps of: providing an adaptive critic-type artificial neural network having a plurality of network sensor inputs for receiving input signals and a plurality of outputs generating responses, wherein the artificial neural network provides a weighted coupling between the network inputs and the outputs; training the neural network to tact at least one sample pattern; training the neural network to echo the at least one tact; generating a situation value signal at each time step; over a plurality of time steps, applying a set of stimulus patterns to the network sensor inputs, wherein the set of stimulus patterns includes at least one stimulus pattern corresponding to the sample pattern; each time step, comparing the current situation value to a previous situation value to determine a change in situation value; after determining each change in the situation value signal, reinforcing responses that correctly indicate matching and nonmatching; and repeating the steps of applying the stimulus pattern and reinforcing until the agent learns a correct response, wherein said training the neural network to echo comprises: coupling the change in situation value signal to a sensor input of the neural network to provide a stimulus to the neural network; and training the neural network to self-echo the previously trained tact. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein one of the plurality of outputs generates a tact response. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein training the neural network to echo further comprises: applying an external stimulus pattern corresponding to the tacted sample pattern to at least some of the sensor inputs; and training the neural network to echo the stimulus pattern corresponding to the tacted sample pattern. 18. The method of claim 14 further comprising punishing incorrect responses after each change in the situation value signal. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said incorrect response comprises an affirmative response when the change in situation value is negative and a negative response when the change in situation value is positive. 20. The method of claim 14 further comprising presenting a series of stimulus patterns to a first set of sensor input nodes of the network while self-echoing the patterns of the tacted samples to a second set of sensor input nodes of the network. 21. The method of claim 14 wherein said correct response comprises an affirmative response when the change in situation value is positive and a negative response when the change in situation value is negative. 22. The method of claim 14 wherein the sample pattern comprises data representing the sample object in multiple modes. 23. An adaptive software agent operating on a computer having a processor and a memory, the software agent comprising: computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to provide an adaptive critic-type artificial neural network in the memory, the network having a plurality of sensor inputs and an output, wherein the sensor inputs have a weighted coupling to the output; computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to train the network to tact at least one sample pattern; computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to generate a situation value signal at each time step; computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to apply a set of stimulus patterns to the network inputs over a plurality of time steps, wherein the set of stimulus patterns includes at least one stimulus pattern corresponding to the sample pattern; computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to compare the current situation value to a previous situation value to determine a change in situation value; computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to reinforce correct responses after each change in the situation value signal, said correct responses being responses that indicate a match when the stimulus pattern matches the sample pattern and responses that indicate a non-match when the stimulus pattern does not match the sample pattern; computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to apply the change in situation value to a sensor input; and computer implemented program code devices configured to cause the computer to repeat the step of applying the stimulus pattern until the agent learns the correct response. 24. A computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave comprising: a first code portion comprising code configured to cause a computer to provide an adaptive critic-type artificial neural network in the memory, the network having a plurality of sensor inputs and an output, wherein the sensor inputs have a weighted coupling to the output; a second code portion comprising code configured to cause the computer to train the network to tact at least one sample pattern; a third code portion comprising code configured to cause the computer to generate a situation value signal at each time step; a fourth code portion comprising code configured to cause the computer to apply a set of stimulus patterns to the network inputs over a plurality of time steps, wherein the set of stimulus patterns includes at least one stimulus pattern corresponding to the sample pattern; a fifth code portion comprising code configured to cause the computer to compare the current situation value to a previous situation value to determine a change in situation value; a sixth code portion comprising code configured to cause the computer to reinforce correct responses after each change in the situation value signal, said correct responses being responses that indicate a match when the stimulus pattern matches the sample pattern and responses that indicate a non-match when the stimulus pattern does not match the sample pattern; a seventh code portion comprising code configured to cause the computer to apply the change in situation value to a sensor input; and an eighth code portion comprising code configured to cause the computer to repeat the step of applying the stimulus pattern until the agent learns the correct response. 