An apparatus and associated method for transporting a first substrate and a second substrate relative to a cell. The cell contains a pedestal that is configured to interact with a single substrate. When swapping wafers in a cell, a first substrate is displaced from the pedestal to a remote location and a second substrate is inserted into the cell and onto the pedestal. The first substrate is then removed from the cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus interacting with a pedestal within a cell, the pedestal is configured to support a single substrate, the apparatus comprising: a first substrate lift comprising a support element that can be displaced between an upright and an outwardly displaced position, said first substrate lift being capable of displacing a first substrate from the pedestal in a position within the cell that permits a second substrate to be supported relative to the pedestal. 2. The apparatus of in claim 1, wherein the pedestal supports the substrate in an inverted position. 3. The apparatus claim 2, further comprising a second substrate lift, wherein when the first substrate lift is positioned in a first lift lowered level and the second substrate lift is positioned in a second lift lowered level, a substrate can be inserted into the cell and be obstructed by neither the first substrate lift nor the second substrate lift. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a second substrate lift, wherein the first substrate can be supported by the first substrate lift and the second substrate can be supported by the second substrate lift. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first wafer lift includes a support post that the support element interacts with to displace the support element between the upright and the outwardly displace position. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support element comprises a ramp segment and the support post comprises a guide roller, wherein the guide roller is configured to follow the ramp segment. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the guide rollers are outwardly biased. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the support element comprises a cam follower and the support post comprises a cam, wherein the cam follower is configured to follow the cam. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the cam follower is rotatably biased. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a support element actuator that can displace the support element between its upright and outwardly displaced positions. 11. A method of transporting a first substrate and a second substrate relative to a cell, the cell contains a pedestal, the pedestal is configured to interact with a single substrate, the method comprising: moving a first substrate lift from an outwardly displaced position into a position beneath a first substrate; vertically displacing the first substrate from the pedestal to a remote location; and inserting a second substrate using a robot blade into the cell and onto the pedestal, said second substrate being placed Into contact with the pedestal. 12. The method set forth in claim 11, further comprising removing the first substrate from the cell. 13. The method of in claim 11, wherein the inserting the second substrate onto the pedestal further comprises the steps of: extending a second substrate lift; positioning the second substrate on the second substrate lift that supports the second substrate relative to the pedestal; and retracting the robot blade from the cell. 14. The method set forth in claim 13, further comprising retracting the second substrate lift to position the second substrate relative to the pedestal. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: re-extending the robot blade into the cell; and positioning the first substrate on the robot blade. 16. A method of swapping a first substrate and a second substrate within a cell, the method comprising: inserting the first substrate into the cell, the first substrate being positioned upon a pedestal; moving a first substrate lift from an outwardly displaced position into a position beneath a first substrate; vertically displacing the first substrate to a position to permit insertion of the second substrate; and inserting the second substrate into the cell, said second substrate being placed upon a second substrate lift. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: retracting the first substrate from the cell. 18. A computer readable medium that stores software that, when executed by a processor, causes a system to transport a first substrate and a second substrate relative to a pedestal, the pedestal is contained in a cell, the software executed by the processor performs a method comprising: moving a first substrate lift from an outwardly displaced position into a position beneath the first substrate; vertically displacing the first substrate from the pedestal to a remote location; and inserting a second substrate using a robot blade into the cell and onto the pedestal. 19. The computer readable medium set forth in claim 18, the method further comprising removing the first substrate from the cell. 20. The computer readable medium set forth in claim 18, the method further comprising inserting the second substrate onto the pedestal further comprising the steps of: extending a second substrate lift; positioning the second substrate on the second substrate lift that supports the second substrate relative to the pedestal; and retracting the robot blade from the cell. 