A high throughput crystallization methodology using 1,536 well microassay plate technology is described. The methodology uses mother-daughter plate technology with robotic control to deliver oil, unique crystallization cocktails, and a protein solution to each of the wells. This provides 1,536 unique microbatch crystallization experiments using as little as 6 mg of protein in 600 microliters of solution. The time required to deliver a protein solution to a prepared experiment plate is less than 10 minutes. A plate imaging system with a capacity of 28 microassay plates is also described. The imaging system digitally records the results of the experiments for later comparison to database results.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for growing crystal, comprising the step of: a) setting up at least three crystallization experiments comprising filling an oil in at least three crystallization wells, providing a cocktail solution in the wells and providing a solution of at least one unknown protein and at least two known proteins in separate ones of the wells such that the cocktail solution and the protein solutions in the oil merge and co-dilute to form the at least three experiments; b) incubating the crystallization experiments; c) visually inspecting the results of the crystallization experiments to determine if crystallization has occurred; d) scoring the results of the crystallization experiments zero (0) if no crystallization occurred and one (1) is something happened to provide a precipitation reaction index; e) deriving a precipitation similarity score from the precipitation reaction indices of the known protein with that of the unknown proteins to determine which of the known proteins the unknown protein is most similar to; and f) developing a strategy based on results of the precipitation similarity score of the unknown protein with that of the known proteins to devise a new crystallization experiment for the unknown protein. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the oil is a paraffin oil. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein cocktail solutions are selected from the group consisting of inorganic salts, organic polymers and buffering agents. 4. The method of claim 3 including selecting the inorganic salts from the group consisting of ammonium bromide, ammonium chloride, ammonium nitrate, ammonium phosphate (monobasic), ammonium phosphate (dibasic), ammonium sulphate, ammonium thiocyanate, calcium acetate, calcium chloride, lithium bromide, lithium chloride, lithium sulphate, magnesium acetate, magnesium chloride, magnesium sulfate, magnesium nitrate; manganese sulphate, potassium acetate, potassium bromide, potassium carbonate, potassium chloride, potassium nitrate, potassium phosphate (monobasic), potassium phosphate (dibasic), potassium phosphate (tribasic), potassium thiocyanate, rubidium chloride, sodium bromide, sodium chloride, sodium molybdate, sodium nitrate, sodium phosphate, sodium thiosulfate, zinc acetate, and cobalt sulfate. 5. The method of claim 4 including combining at least one of the inorganic salts with either polyethylene glycol or methyl-2,4-pentanediol. 6. The method of claim 3 including providing the inorganic salts in a concentration of about 0.35M to about 10.0M. 7. The method of claim 3 including selecting buffer from the group consisting of 2-(N-moropholino)-ethanesulfonic acid (MES), tris-(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (Tris), 3-(cyclohexylamino)-2-hydroxy-1-propanesulfonic acid (CAPS), citrate, N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulfonic acid (HEPES), acetate, 3-(N-morpholino)prpoanesulfonic acid (MOPS), and N-tris(hydroxymethyl)methyl-3-aminopropanesulfonio acid (TAPS). 8. The method of claim 7 including providing the buffers at a concentration of about 0.2M. 9. The method of claim 7 including providing the buffers at a pH range of about 4.0 to about 10.0. 10. The method of claim 7 including providing the polyethylene glycol having a molecular weight selected from the group consisting of 400, 1,000, 4,000, 8,000 and 20,000 Daltons. 11. The method of claim 7 including providing the polyethylene glycol ranging in concentration from about 20% (w/v) to about 80 (w/v). 12. The method of claim 3 including providing the cocktails as commercially available compounds. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiment is incubated for at least 24 hours. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the crystallization experiment is incubated at a temperature of about 4.degree. C. to about 35.degree. C. 15. The method of claim 1 further including recording a digital image and commentary regarding the results of the crystallization experiments. 16. The method of claim 15 including recording the digital image using a CCD camera. 17. The method of claim 1 including performing 1,536 crystallization experiments on the unknown protein. 18. The method of claim 1 including summing the number of bits for the precipitation reaction indices of the unknown protein and of the known protein to derive the precipitation similarity score. 19. The method of claim 1 including characterizing the cocktail solution by at least one of a refractory measurement, a gravimetric density an a pH. 