System and methods for performing actions include detecting a particular state of a given system after the system performs various actions to transition the system from previous states to subsequent states. The system then compares detected states to expected states of the system. If a particular detected state differs from a related expected state, then one or more actions are performed to cause the system to transition from the detected state to a recovery state. The recovery actions performed are determined using one or more experience nodes storing historical recovery information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing actions in a system, comprising: detecting a second state of the system after the system performs a first action transitioning from a first state; comparing the detected second state to an expected second state of the system; if the detected second state differs from the expected second state, performing one or more second actions based on at least an error recovery history for the system. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more second actions comprise a transition path from the detected second state to a third state. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more second actions are further based on a first trigger, a trigger being one or more actions causing the system to transition from a previous state to a subsequent state. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more second actions are further based on a difference between the detected second state and the expected second state. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein, if the detected second state differs from the expected second state, further building an experience node storing recovery information including at least one of information relating to the first trigger, information relating to the difference between the detected second state and the expected second state, and information relating to the one or more second actions. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein performing the one or more second actions is based on one or more experience nodes, an experience node being a node containing information relating to one or more triggers, differences between detected states and expected states and one or more recovery actions. 7. The method of claim 4, further comprising, if the detected second state differs from the expected second state, storing information to an experience node, including at least information relating to the first trigger, the difference between the detected second state and the expected second state, and the one or more second actions. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the experience node contains information relating to previous experiences of the system, including a database of triggers, a database of differences relating to detected and excepted states, and a database of recovery actions, a recovery action being an action used to transition the system from a detected state to a desired state. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of generating an experience map for the system, the experience map comprising a plurality experience nodes. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising updating the experience node based on newly encountered detected states. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising performing one or more learned actions based on at least the first trigger, the difference between the detected second state and the expected second state, and the one or more second actions. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein the system is based on at least a neural network. 13. An apparatus for characterizing a system, comprising: a processor unit that controls the system to perform one or more sets of actions; and a recovery unit, coupled to the processor unit, that detects states of the system; wherein at least one of the processor unit and recovery unit determines a difference between the detected states and expected state of the system, and if a first detected state differs from a first expected state, causes the system to perform one or more recovery actions based on at least an error recovery history of the system. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the one or more recovery actions comprise a transition path from the first detected state to a recovery state. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the one or more actions are further based on a first trigger relating to the first detected state, a trigger being one or more actions causing the system to transition from a previous state to a subsequent state. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the recovery unit further builds one or more experience nodes storing recovery information, including at least information relating to the first trigger, information relating to the difference between the detected first state and the expected first state, and information relating to the one or more recovery actions. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the recovery information comprises at least a frequency of the difference between the first detected state and the first expected state. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the recovery information comprises at least a frequency of the one or more recovery actions. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the recovery unit includes an experience map for the system, the experience map including at least a plurality of experience nodes generated by the recovery unit. 20. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a communication interface, the one or more experience nodes being communicated to other systems via the communication interface. 21. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the recovery unit experience map continuously monitors the system, and updates the experience map. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more second actions comprise a transition path from the detected second state to a third state. 