A system for automatically inspecting matter for varying composition includes one or more detection stations through which one or more streams of matter are advanced and particular materials therein are detected through their diffusely reflected IR spectra, if any, and/or through their variation of an electromagnetic field by their metallic portions, if any. A row of light sources distributed across the overall width of one or more belt conveyors may cause desired portions of the stream to reflect light diffusely onto a part-toroidal mirror extending over that overall width, whence the light is reflected, by a rotating, polygonal mirror through optical filters dedicated to differing IR wavelengths, onto detectors the data output of which is utilized in controlling solenoid valves operating air jet nozzles which separate-out the desired portions. Alternatively or additionally, an oscillator and an antenna which extends over that overall width generate an electromagnetic field through the belt and sensing coils sense variations therein produced by metallic portions of the stream passing through the detection station and the detection data produced by the sensing coils is used to control the solenoid valves operating the nozzles to separate-out the metallic portions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of separating a fraction comprised of polymer-coated paperboard objects from a stream of waste, comprising advancing said stream through a detection station and separating the polymer-coated paperboard objects from the stream, wherein at said station a determination is made, using substantially invisible electromagnetic radiation, solely as to whether a portion of said waste is or is not a polymer-coated paperboard object. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said determination comprises emitting said radiation to be active at a transverse section of said stream at said detection station, said radiation being varied by variations in the composition of said waste at said transverse section, and generating detection data in dependence upon the variations in said radiation. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said generating includes determining the intensity of the varied radiation of selected wavelength(s) reflected from portions of said stream distributed across said stream. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said portions comprise polymer of said objects and said selected wavelengths comprise a plurality of wavelength bands in the region 1.5 microns to 1.85 microns. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said polymer is polyethylene and said wavelength bands comprise a first wavelength band centered on substantially 1.73 microns and a second wavelength band centered less than 0.1 microns from the first wavelength band. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein said second wavelength band is centered at substantially 1.66 microns. 7. A method according to claim 2, wherein the varied radiation is received from said stream in the form of diffusely reflected radiation travelling substantially perpendicularly to a widthwise and lengthwise plane of said stream. 8. A method according to claim 3, wherein said transverse section comprises a multiplicity of individual detection zones distributed across substantially the width of said stream. 9. A method according claim 8, wherein said determining is performed for each detection zone in respect of a plurality of wavelengths simultaneously. 10. A method according to claim 2, wherein said emitting occurs at a location significantly spaced from a receiving device receiving the varied radiation. 11. A method according to claim 2, wherein said emitting occurs over substantially the width of said stream. 12. A method according to claim 1, and further comprising simultaneously cycling through the method, including advancing through the detection station another stream of waste comprising the separated-out fraction of the first-mentioned stream, and utilizing the detection data obtained from said other stream in separating therefrom a fraction thereof. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein the first-mentioned stream and said other stream are advanced in a common direction through said detection station. 14. A method according to claim 12, wherein the first-mentioned stream and said other stream are advanced in respective opposite directions through said detection station. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein the separating comprises causing air jet pulses to impinge upon said objects to force the same out of the stream. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein said advancing is relatively fast and said air jet pulses are relatively weak. 17. A method according to claim 2, wherein a receiving device transmits the varied radiation towards a detecting device, and the varied radiation converges upon itself during its travel from said receiving device to said detecting device. 18. A method of automatically inspecting matter for varying composition, comprising passing a stream of said matter through a detection station, emitting a detection medium to be active at a transverse section of said stream at said detection station, wherein said medium is varied by variations in the composition of said matter at said transverse section, receiving the varied medium from over substantially the width of the stream at a receiving device, and generating detection data in dependence upon the variations in said medium, wherein said transverse section comprises a multiplicity of individual detection zones distributed across substantially the width of said stream, and the detection data from said individual detection zones is used to construct a two-dimensional simulation of said matter passing through said detection station, said detection medium comprising electromagnetic radiation which irradiates said section, said generating including determining the intensity of electromagnetic radiation of selected wavelength(s) received from portions of said stream distributed across said stream, and said determining being performed for each detection zone in respect of a plurality of wavelengths simultaneously. 