The present invention pertains to a control and programming means (1) for a manipulator (2) with a manipulator control (3), a computer (4) with a graphics unit and with a portable programming device (10), which connected to the computing unit (4) by remote data transmission. The programming device (10) has a display screen (12) without a graphics card of its own, which is connected to the graphics unit (5) of the computer (4) by remote data transmission means and receives the graphic information from the said graphics unit. The graphics unit (5) preferably has a graphics card (6) with a converter (9) and an integrated serial interface (7) for remote data transmission for this purpose. The programming device (10) has a serial interface (7) for remote data transmission. The programming device (10) has a serial interface (7), which is connected to the display screen (12) via a converter (9).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic manipulator arrangement comprising: a manipulator control unit; a portable programming device including a display screen, said display screen of the portable programming device is a graphic color display screen, displaying image information as pixel information having an graphic integrated pixel control; a graphics unit in the manipulator control unit for direct image generation and providing color graphics image information in graphic form including color information and pixel position information; a parallel-serial converter in said manipulator control unit for converting said color graphics image information into serial signals; a serial interface in said manipulator control unit for transmitting said color graphics image information as serial pixels; a serial interface in said portable programming device for receiving said color graphics image information as serial signals; a serial-parallel converter in said portable programming device for re-converting said serial signals into parallel color graphics image information to be displayed on said graphic color display screen; remote transmission means for transferring said color graphics information from said control unit to said portable programming device, said graphic color display screen receives and displays said image information in said graphic form from said graphics unit in said manipulator control unit. 2. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said portable programming device does not include a graphics unit. 3. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said serial interface transmits said graphic form image information of said data from said control unit to said portable programming device. 4. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said graphics unit has a graphics card with a converter. 5. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said serial interface of said programming device is connected to said display screen via a converter. 6. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said display screen is a flat LCD display screen. 7. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said programming device includes a housing and said serial interface of said programming device is arranged recessed at said housing. 8. An arrangement in accordance with claim 7, wherein: said interfaces have one of electric plug contacts for cable plugs and slots with contacts for interface cards. 9. An arrangement in accordance with claim 7, wherein: communications means for wireless data exchange are connected to said interfaces. 10. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said programming device includes a housing with a plurality of ergonomically designed grip areas for gripping by a hand of a user. 11. An arrangement in accordance with claim 10, wherein: said grip areas are made in one piece with at least two housing edges; a plurality of function keys are arranged within range of a finger of the hand gripping one of said grip areas. 12. An arrangement in accordance with claim 10, wherein: said grip areas are arranged at one of a rear and two lateral edges of said housing. 13. An arrangement in accordance with claim 10, wherein: a switching key is arranged on a side of said housing opposite said display screen and within range of a finger of the hand gripping one of said grip areas; a multiaxially movable control member is arranged on a lateral edge of said housing. 14. An arrangement in accordance with claim 13, wherein: said control member is designed as a six-axially movable joystick. 15. An arrangement in accordance with claim 10, wherein: two projecting pins are arranged at spaced locations from each other on an underside of said housing, one of said projecting pins being designed as a grip pin for grasping by the hand. 16. An arrangement in accordance with claim 15, wherein: said grip pin has a switching key and a holding strap. 17. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said control unit includes a display, and said graphic form image information is also sent from said graphics unit to said display of said control unit; said graphic form image information of said data can be directly used by said display screen of said programming device and said control unit; said programming device is movable with respect to, and spaced from, said control unit. 18. An arrangement in accordance with claim 1, wherein: said portable programing device is a separate structure from said manipulator control unit, and said portable programing device is movable with respect to said manipulator control unit. 19. A manipulator arrangement comprising: a manipulator control unit; a portable programming device portable with respect to said control unit, said programming device having a display screen with a plurality of pixels; a graphics unit in said control unit for generating image data in a graphic form from non-graphic data, said graphic form of said image data including separate color and location information for each said pixel of said display screen to form an image; data transmission means for transferring said graphic form image data between said control unit and said portable programming device, said display screen receiving and using said image data to display said image. 