The present invention provides an improved system for linking nucleic acids to one another. In particular, the present invention provides techniques for producing DNA product molecules that may be easily and directly ligated to recipient molecules. The product molecules need not be cleaved with restriction enzymes in order to undergo such ligation. In preferred embodiments of the invention, the DNA product molecules are produced through iterative DNA synthesis reactions, so that the product molecules are amplified products. The invention further provides methods for directed ligation of product molecules (i.e., for selective ligation of certain molecules within a collection of molecules), and also for methods of exon shuffling, in which multiple different product molecules are produced in a single ligation reaction. Preferred embodiments of the invention involve ligation of product molecules encoding functional protein domains, particularly domains naturally found in conserved gene families. The inventive DNA manipulation system is readily integrated with other nucleic acid manipulation systems, such as ribozyme-mediated systems, and also is susceptible to automation.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of generating a double-stranded DNA molecule, the method comprising steps of: providing a template nucleic acid molecule; contacting the template nucleic acid molecule with a first primer that hybridizes thereto, the first primer including at least one termination residue characterized in that the termination residue does not serve as a template for at least one DNA polymerase; extending the first primer so that a nucleic acid strand complementary to that with which the first primer hybridizes is generated; contacting the complementary nucleic acid strand with a second primer that hybridizes thereto; extending the second primer with a DNA polymerase that does not copy the termination residue, so that the termination residue is not copied in the extension reaction and the extension reaction produces a product molecule containing a first overhang; providing a second double-stranded DNA molecule containing an overhang at least partly complementary to the first overhang; and combining the first and second double-stranded DNA molecules under conditions that allow hybridization of the first and second overhangs. 2. A method of generating a double-stranded nucleic acid molecule containing at least one single-stranded overhang, the method comprising steps of: providing a template nucleic acid molecule comprising at least one first nucleic acid strand, the strand including a target portion to which a primer can hybridize and be extended, and a 3' adjacent portion upstream of and adjacent to the target portion; contacting the template nucleic acid molecule with a first primer including at least three portions as follows: a) a first portion that is complementary in sequence to the target portion of the at least one first strand of the template nucleic acid molecule, which first portion includes the 3' end of the first primer; (b) a second portion that renders the primer susceptible to cleavage under conditions in which DNA of identical sequence is not normally susceptible to cleavage, (c) a third portion that is not complementary to the 3' adjacent portion of the at least one first nucleic acid strand; and the contacting being performed under conditions that allow hybridization of the primer to the at least one first nucleic acid strand so that at least the first primer portion and the target portion of the at least one first nucleic acid strand are hybridized to one another, and the third primer portion is not hybridized to the 3' adjacent portion of the at least one first nucleic acid strand; extending the first primer so that an extension strand including the first primer and otherwise complementary to the at least one first nucleic acid strand is generated; hybridizing a second primer to the extension strand; extending the second primer so that a blunt-ended, double-stranded extension product is generated; and subjecting the blunt-ended, double-stranded extension product to cleavage conditions so that the first primer is cleaved and the blunt-ended, double-stranded extension product is modified to contain a first overhang comprising sequences complementary to the third portion of the first primer. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating step comprises performing multiple rounds of extension. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one nucleotide comprises a ribonucleotide. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one nucleotide comprises a plurality of ribonucleotides. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing step comprises providing a second double-stranded DNA molecule containing an overhang that includes a portion that is not complementary to the first overhang. 7. A method of generating a nucleic acid molecule, the method comprising steps of: extending first and second primers in a polymerase-mediated extension reaction, at least one of the primers including at least one nucleotide that is not copied by the polymerase employed in the extension reaction, so that a nucleic acid molecule having at least one overhang is produced. 8. A method of generating a nucleic acid molecule, the method comprising steps of: generating a plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules, each of which is generated according to the method of claim 7, wherein the primers used to generate each precursor nucleic acid molecule are selected so that each overhang is complementary, at least in part, to an overhang belonging to another of the precursor nucleic acid molecules; and combining the plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules with one another under conditions that allow hybridization of the complementary overhangs, so that a nucleic acid molecule is generated. 9. A method of generating a plurality of nucleic acid molecules, the method comprising steps of: generating a first plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules, each of which is generated according to the method of claim 7, wherein the primers used to generate each precursor nucleic acid molecule are selected so that each overhang is complementary, at least in part, to an overhang belonging to another of the precursor nucleic acid molecules; and combining various precursor nucleic acid molecules from the first plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules with one another, under conditions that allow hybridization of the complementary overhangs, so that a plurality of nucleic acid molecules is generated. 10. A method of generating a nucleic acid molecule, the method comprising steps of: generating a plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules, each of which is generated according to the method of claim 7, wherein the primers are selected so that each precursor nucleic acid molecule comprises an overhang that has a sequence distinct from that of the overhangs belonging to any of the other precursor nucleic acid molecules; and combining the plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules with one another under conditions that allow hybridization of the complementary overhangs, so that a nucleic acid molecule is generated. 11. A method of generating a plurality of nucleic acid molecules, the method comprising the steps of: generating a plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules, each of which is generated according to the method of claim 7, wherein the primers are selected so that each precursor nucleic acid molecule comprises an overhang that has a sequence distinct from that of the overhangs belonging to any of the other precursor nucleic acid molecules; and combining the plurality of precursor nucleic acid molecules with one another, under conditions that allow hybridization of the complementary overhangs, so that a plurality of nucleic acid molecules is generated. 12. The method of any of claims 8, 9, 10, or 11, wherein each of the plurality of nucleic acid molecules generated in the generating step encodes a polypeptide comprising a functional domain of a protein. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the functional domain is one that is naturally found in a gene family selected from the group consisting of the tissue plasminogen activator gene family, the animal fatty acid synthase gene family, the polyketide synthase gene family, the peptide synthetase gene family, and the terpene synthase gene family. 14. The method of claim 2, wherein the second portion of the first primer comprises a nucleotide that is not naturally found in DNA. 15. The method of claim 2, wherein the second portion at the first primer comprises a ribonucleotide. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the ribonucleotide is located at the 5' end of the primer. 17. The method of claim 2, wherein the second portion of first primer comprises a plurality of ribonucleotides. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of ribonucleotides is located at the 5' end of the primer. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of ribonucleotides includes at least two ribonucleotides. 20. The method of claim 17, 18, or 19, wherein the step of subjecting comprises exposing the blunt-ended, double-stranded extension product to a pH sufficient to effect cleavage of the molecule. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of subjecting comprises exposing the blunt-ended, double-stranded extension product to sodium hydroxide. 22. The method of claim 17, 18, or 19, wherein the step of subjecting comprises exposing the blunt-ended double-stranded extension product to RNase. 23. The method of claim 2, further comprising steps of: providing a double-stranded nucleic acid molecule containing an overhang comprising sequences complementary to that includes a portion that is not complementary to the overhang generated on the first double-stranded nucleic acid molecule; and combining the double-stranded nucleic acid molecule with the modified double-stranded extension product so that the complementary overhand sequences anneal. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of ligating the first and second double-stranded DNA molecules to one another so that a third double-stranded nucleic acid molecule is produced. 25. The method of claim 23, further comprising a step of ligating the double-stranded nucleic acid, molecule to the modified double-stranded extension product. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising a step of: adding a phosphate group to the modified double-stranded extension product before performing the ligating step. 27. The method of claim 24 or 25, wherein the ligating step is performed in vivo. 28. The method of claim 8 or 10, further comprising a step of ligating the plurality of nucleic acid molecules to one another. 29. The method of claim 9 or 11, further comprising a step of ligating the first plurality of nucleic acid molecules to one another, thereby generating a second plurality of nucleic acid molecules. 