A method and apparatus for automated interfacing with a processing tool in a manufacturing environment having a tilt mechanism and a rotation mechanism. In one embodiment, semiconductor wafers in a cassette are presented to a processing tool by tilting the cassette during movement towards the tool. The tilt mechanism provides a means for seating the wafers in the cassette. The rotation mechanism allows the cassette to be adjusted to meet a robotic arm which extracts wafers from the cassette. Where the cassette is part of a Standard Mechanical InterFace (SMIF) system, the pod is placed onto the interface apparatus, where the pod cover is removed to allow processing of the wafers. A bellows is provided to cover the exposed cassette, thus creating an extended mini-environment including the interface apparatus, tool, and pod cover. In one embodiment, the interface apparatus includes robotic arms and a lift mechanism. Operation of the lift mechanism to open a container effects the positioning of the robotic arms to transfer the container to the tool. In one embodiment, semiconductor wafers in a cassette are ionized as the robotic arms position to grip the cassette. A gripping mechanism is adapted to grip a variety of containers in a variety of positions. A base receiver accepts containers in a first and a second orientation. A main controller provides control to a plurality of motors and functional blocks within the interface apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising steps of: positioning a pod having a removable cover on an interface apparatus, wherein the pod contains one or more articles for processing by a processing tool; opening the pod by movement of the removable cover, wherein a controlled environment is established by the processing tool, interface apparatus and the pod; flowing an inert gas over the one or more articles; and processing the one or more articles with the processing tool, wherein a manufacturing process is performed on the one or more articles, and wherein the step of processing the one or more articles comprises the step of: positioning the one or more articles inside the processing tool, wherein the step of positioning the one or more articles inside the processing tool comprises one or more of the steps of: horizonally moving the one or more articles with respect to the processing tool; rotationally moving the one or more articles with respect to the processing tool; and tilting the one or more articles with respect to the processing tool; and processing the one or more articles with the processing tool. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more articles comprise one or more items selected from the group consisting of silicon wafers, integrated circuits, hard disks, liquid crystal displays, flat panel displays, imaging devices, infra red sensors, aerospace components, and optical implements. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the inert gas is filter prior to flowing over the one or more articles. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the inert gas is filtered by a point of use filter. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the inert gas is electrostatic charge free. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the inert gas is provided by the interface apparatus. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the inert gas is provided by the processing tool or external to the processing tool. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein, upon opening the pod, an enclosure is established between pod cover and a pod base. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the enclosure comprises a bellows. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of opening the pod comprises vertically lifting the removable cover from a pod base. 14. The method of claimed 13, wherein the removable cover is vertically lifted with a vertically movable plate, wherein an enclosure is established by an element extending vertically downward from the vertically movable plate. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the element comprises a bellows. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the tilting step is performed prior to access of one of the articles by a robot inside the processing tool. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: closing the pod; moving the pod to a second processing tool; and performing a second processing on the one or more articles with the second processing tool. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the pod comprises a SMIF pod. 21. A method of manufacturing at least one article, comprising the steps of: positioning the article in a carrier; closing the carrier by moving a cover element to a carrier base; engaging the carrier with an interface apparatus; opening the carrier by movement of the cover element, wherein a controlled environment is established by the processing tool, interface apparatus and the carrier; flowing an inert gas over the articles; and performing a manufacturing process on the article with the processing tool and wherein the step of performing a manufacturing process on the article comprises the steps of: processing the articles inside processing tool, wherein the step of positioning the article inside the processing tool comprises one or more of the steps of: horizonally moving the articles with respect to the processing tool; rotationally moving the articles with respect to the processing tool; and tilting the articles with respect to the processing tool; and processing the articles with the processing tool. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein the article comprises an item selected from the group consisting of silicon wafers, integrated circuits, hard disks, liquid crystal displays, flat panel displays, imaging devices, infra red sensors, aerospace components, and optical implements. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein the inert gas is filtered prior to flowing over the article. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the inert gas is filtered by a point of use filter. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein the inert gas is electrostatic charge free. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein the inert gas is provided by the interface apparatus. 28. The method of claim 21, wherein the inert gas is provided by the processing tool or external to the processing tool. 29. The method of claim 21, wherein, upon opening the carrier, an enclosure is established between the cover element and the carrier base. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the enclosure comprises a bellows. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 33. The method of claim 21, wherein the step of opening the carrier comprises vertically lifting the cover element from the carrier base. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the cover element is vertically lifted with a vertically movable plate, wherein an enclosure is established by an element extending vertically downward from the vertically movable plate. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the element comprises a bellows. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 37. The method of claim 35, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 38. The method of claim 21, wherein the tilting step is performed prior to access of the article by a robot inside the processing tool. 39. A method, comprising steps of: positioning a pod having a removable cover on an interface apparatus, wherein the pod contains one or more articles for processing by a processing tool; opening the pod by movement of the removable cover, wherein a controlled environment is established by the processing tool, interface apparatus and the pod; and flowing an inert gas over the one or more articles; positioning the one or more articles inside the processing tool, wherein the step of positioning the one or more articles inside the processing tool comprises one or more the steps of: horizonally moving the one or more articles with respect to the processing tool; rotationally moving the one or more articles with respect to the processing tool; and tilting the one or more articles with respect to the processing tool; and processing the one or more articles with the processing tool. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein, after flowing of the inert gas over the one or more articles, the articles are presented for processing by the processing tool, wherein a manufacturing process is performed on the one or more articles. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein the inert gas comprises nitrogen. 42. The method of claim 39, wherein the one or more articles comprise one or more items selected from the group consisting of silicon wafers, integrated circuits, hard disks, liquid crystal displays, flat panel displays, imaging devices, infra red sensors, aerospace components, and optical implements. 43. The method of claim 39, wherein the inert gas is filtered prior to flowing over the one or more articles. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the inert gas is filtered by a point of use filter. 45. The method of claim 39, wherein the inert gas is electrostatic charge free. 46. The method of claim 39, wherein the inert gas is provided by the interface apparatus. 47. The method of claim 39, wherein the inert gas is provided by the processing tool or external to the processing tool. 48. The method of claim 39, wherein, upon opening the pod, an enclosure is established between pod cover and a pod base. 49. The method of claim 48, wherein the enclosure comprises a bellows. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 52. The method of claim 39, wherein the step of opening the pod comprises vertically lifting the removable-cover from a pod base. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein the removable cover is vertically lifted with a vertically movable plate, wherein an enclosure is established by an element extending vertically downward from the vertically movable plate. 54. The method of claim 53, wherein the element comprises a bellows. 55. The method of claim 54, wherein the bellows comprises a flexible material. 56. The method of claim 54, wherein the bellows comprises polytetrafluoroethylene. 57. The method of claim 39, wherein the tilting step is performed prior to access of one of the articles by a robot inside the processing tool. 58. The method of claim 39, further comprising the steps of: closing the pod; moving the pod to a second processing tool; and performing a second processing on the one or more articles with the second processing tool. 59. The method of claim 39, wherein the pod comprises a SMIF pod. 