A parts feeder for an automated robotic selection system has a hopper with an integral hopper conveyor for transporting parts to a chute integral with a frame. A feed conveyor transports parts from the chute to a tilting pan which alternately dumps parts received from the feed conveyor to first and second return conveyors. The first and second return conveyors alternately move the parts into the operating range of a robotic arm whereupon the robotic arm selects and picks a part to be reoriented as desired. Parts not picked by the robotic arm are recycled back to the chute where they will be thereafter transported by the feed conveyor to the parts pan. A parts sensor is provided to detect the quantity of parts held within the chute to determine if more parts need to be supplied from the hopper to the parts feeder.
Claims I claim: 1. A parts feeder for supplying parts from bulk storage to an automated parts processing system, the parts feeder comprising: a frame having a first end and a second end; a hopper proximate the second end of the frame; a hopper conveyor associated with the hopper for transporting parts from the bulk storage to said second end of the frame; a chute disposed downstream from the hopper and receiving parts from the hopper; a feed conveyor disposed downstream from the chute for transporting parts toward the first end of the frame; at least one return conveyor for transporting parts to an operable range of the automated parts processing system and for returning parts to said chute; and a parts diverter proximate the first end of the frame and adapted to accept parts from the feed conveyor and direct them toward the at least one return conveyor. 2. The parts feeder of claim 1 further comprising: a mount attached to the frame and adapted to support the automated parts processing system. 3. The parts feeder of claim 2 wherein said mount includes at least one plate having a plurality of mounting holes adapted to receive fasteners for securing the automated parts processing system to the plate. 4. The parts feeder of claim 3 further comprising: a shelf selectively fastenable to said plate and adapted to receive the automated parts processing system. 5. The parts feeder of claim 1 further comprising: a sensor for detecting the quantity of parts supplied from the hopper to the chute. 6. The parts feeder of claim 5 further comprising: a mount attached to the frame and said sensor is attached to the mount at a position above the chute. 7. The parts feeder of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of wheels attached to the base of the frame to facilitate movement of the parts feeder to a desired location. 8. The parts feeder of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of lockable feet attached to the base of the frame for preventing movement of the parts feeder. 9. The parts feeder of claim 1, wherein said hopper is pivotally mounted to the frame so as to be located substantially against said frame when the parts feeder is not in use. 10. The parts feeder of claim 1 wherein the at least one return conveyor is at least translucent. 11. The parts feeder of claim 10 further comprising: a light source located below the at least one return conveyor and wherein the automated parts processing system is adapted to visually inspect the parts. 12. The parts feeder of claim 1 further comprising: a first return conveyor and a second return conveyor, wherein the parts diverter alternately diverts parts to said first and second return conveyors. 13. The parts feeder of claim 12 wherein the parts diverter further comprises a pan pivotally attached to the frame and at least one pivot actuator attached to said pan for alternately tilting said pan towards said first and second return conveyors. 14. The parts feeder of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of the return conveyors which are alternately actuated to return the parts to said chute. 15. The parts feeder of claim 1 further comprising: an enclosure attached to the frame for housing associated controls and equipment. 16. A parts feeder for supplying parts from bulk storage to an automated parts processing system, the parts feeder comprising: a frame having a first end and a second end; a hopper pivotally attached to the second end of the frame such that the hopper may be selectively pivoted to a position substantially against the frame when the parts feeder is not in use; and a hopper conveyor associated with the hopper for transporting parts from the bulk storage to said second end of the frame; a chute disposed downstream from the hopper and receiving parts from the hopper; a feed conveyor disposed downstream from the chute for transporting parts toward the first end of the frame; first and second return conveyors for transporting parts to an operable range of the automated parts processing system and for returning parts to said chute, the first and second return conveyors being at least translucent; at least one light source located beneath the return conveyors to aid the automated parts processing system in visually inspecting the parts; a parts diverter pan pivotally attached proximate the first end of the frame; at least one pivot actuator attached to the pan for tilting the pan; whereby the parts diverter pan accepts parts from the feed conveyor and alternatingly transfers parts onto the first and second return conveyors; a mount attached to the frame and including at least one plate having a plurality of mounting holes adapted to receive fasteners for securing the automated parts processing system to the plate; a shelf selectively attached to the plate and adapted to receive the automated parts processing system; and an enclosure attached to the frame for housing controls and associated equipment. 17. A system for processing parts from bulk storage, the system comprising: a robotic arm adapted to locate and select parts presented to an operating range of the robotic arm; a frame having a first end and a second end; a hopper proximate the second end of the frame; a hopper conveyor associated with the hopper for transporting parts from the bulk storage to said second end of the frame; a chute disposed downstream from the hopper and receiving parts from the hopper; a feed conveyor disposed downstream from the chute for transporting parts toward the first end of the frame; at least one return conveyor for transporting parts to an operating range of the robotic arm and for returning parts to said chute; and a parts diverter proximate the first end of the frame and adapted to accept parts from the feed conveyor and direct them toward the at least one return conveyor. 18. The system of claim 17 further comprising: a first return conveyor and a second return conveyor, wherein the parts diverter alternately diverts parts to said first and second return conveyors. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the parts diverter is a pan pivotally attached to the frame and at least one pivot actuator attached to said pan for alternately tilting said pan towards said first and second return conveyors. 20. A system for processing parts from bulk storage, the system comprising: a frame having a first end and a second end; a hopper pivotally attached to the second end of the frame such that the hopper may be selectively pivoted to a position substantially against the frame when the parts feeder is not in use; a hopper conveyor associated with the hopper for transporting parts from the bulk storage to said second end of the frame; a chute disposed downstream from the hopper for receiving parts from the hopper; a feed conveyor disposed downstream from the chute for transporting parts toward the first end of the frame; first and second return conveyors for transporting parts to an operating range of a robotic arm and for returning parts to said chute, the first and second return conveyors being at least translucent; at least one light source located beneath the first and second return conveyors to aid the in visually inspecting the parts; a parts diverter pan pivotally attached proximate the first end of the frame; at least one pivot actuator attached to the pan for tilting the pan; whereby the parts diverter pan accepts parts from the feed conveyor and alternatingly transfers parts onto the first and second return conveyors; a mount attached to the frame and including at least one plate having a plurality of mounting holes adapted to receive fasteners for securing the automated parts processing system to the plate; a shelf selectively attached to the plate and adapted to receive the automated parts processing system; an enclosure attached to the frame for housing controls and associated equipment; and a robotic arm attached to the shelf and adapted to locate and select parts presented to an operating range of the robotic arm. 