A hybrid control system is provided for controlling the movement of a robot. The hybrid control system includes a singularity detector; a task level controller that receives a motion plan and determines a first set of control commands which are defined in a task space; and a joint level controller that receives the motion plan and determines a second set of control commands which are defined in a joint space. The singularity detector monitors the movement of the robot and detects robot movement in a region about a singularity configuration. When robot movement occurs outside of this region, the task level controller is operable to issue the first set of control commands to the robot. When the robot movement occurs inside of this region, the joint level controller is operable to issue the second set of control commands to the robot. In this way, the hybrid control system ensures feasible robot motion in the neighborhood of and at kinematic singularity configuration.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hybrid control system for controlling the movement of a robot, comprising: a singularity detector operable to monitor the movement of the robot and detect robot movement in a region about a singularity configuration; a task level controller connected to the singularity detector, the task level controller receptive of a motion plan and operable to issue a first set of control commands to the robot when robot movement occurs outside said region, where the first set of control commands are defined a task space; and a joint level controller connected to the singularity detector, the joint level controller receptive of the motion plan and operable to issue a second set of control commands to the robot when robot movement occurs inside said region, where the second set of control commands are defined in a joint space. 2. The hybrid control system of claim 1 wherein the robot is operable at the singularity configuration. 3. The hybrid control system of claim 1 wherein the robot includes a manipulator having a plurality of joints and an end-effector, such that the manipulator is operable to position and orientate the end-effector within a reachable workspace. 4. The hybrid control system of claim 3 wherein the singularity detector is operable to monitor robot joint parameters associated with said plurality of joint, such that the robot joint parameters are indicative of robot movement in the region about the singularity configuration. 5. The hybrid control system of claim 3 wherein the manipulator further includes a three degrees of freedom forearm and a three degrees of freedom spherical wrist. 6. The hybrid control system of claim 5 wherein the singularity configuration may be selected from the group consisting of a boundary arm singular configuration, an interior arm singular configuration, and a wrist singularity configuration. 7. The hybrid control system of claim 1 wherein the task level controller is further defined by where u is a vector of applied torques; q is a vector denoting joint displacements of the robot; D is an inertia matrix for the robot; J.sub.o is a Jacobian matrix which defines the relationship between the joint space and the task space; Y is a vector denoting the position and orientation of the end-effector of the robot in task space; Y.sup.d,Y.sup.d,Y.sup.d denotes a desired robot task expressed in task space; K.sub.Vx and K.sub.Px are feedback gain matrices; c(q,q) is centripetal and coriolis terms; and g(q) is a gravity term. 8. The hybrid control system of claim 1 wherein the joint level controller is further defined by where u is a vector of applied torques; q is a vector denoting of joint displacements of the robot; D(q) is an inertia matrix for the robot; q.sup.d,q.sup.d,q.sup.d denotes a desired robot task expressed in the joint space; K.sub.Vq and K.sub.Pq are feedback gain matrices; c(q,q) is centripetal and coriolis terms; and g(q) is a gravity term. 9. The hybrid control system of claim 1 wherein the task level controller operable to use a pseudoinverse jacobian matrix to determine the first set of control commands along a boundary of said region. 10. A hybrid control system for controlling the movement of a robot manipulator, the manipulator having a plurality of joints and an end-effector, comprising: a singularity detector operable to detect movement of the manipulator in a first region proximate to a singularity configuration and further operable to detect movement of the manipulator in a second region proximate to the singularity configuration, where the second region is a subset of the first region; a task level controller connected to the singularity detector, the task level controller receptive of a motion plan and operable to issue a first set of control commands to the manipulator when manipulator movement is outside of the first region, where the first set of control commands are defined in a task space using an inverse Jacobian matrix; said task level controller further operable to issue a second set of control commands to the manipulator when manipulator movement is inside the first region but outside of the second region, where the second set of control commands are defined in the task space using a pseudoinverse Jacobian matrix; and a joint level controller connected to the singularity detector, the joint level controller receptive of the motion plan and operable to issue a third set of control commands to the manipulator when manipulator movement is inside said second region, where the third set of control commands are defined in a joint space. 11. The hybrid control system of claim 10 wherein the robot manipulator is operable at the singularity configuration. 12. The hybrid control system of claim 10 wherein the singularity detector is operable to monitor joint parameters associated with said plurality of joint, such that the joint parameters are indicative of manipulator movement proximate to the singularity configuration. 13. The hybrid control system of claim 10 wherein the pseudoinverse Jacobian matrix is computed using a damped least squares technique. 14. The hybrid control system of claim 10 wherein the task level controller is further defined by where u is a vector of applied torques; q is a vector denoting joint displacements of the manipulator; D(q) is an inertia matrix for the manipulator; J.sub.o is a Jacobian matrix which defines the relationship between the joint space and the task space; J.sub.o.sup.# is the pseudoinverse Jacobian matrix; Y is a vector denoting the position and orientation of the end-effector in task space; Y.sup.d,Y.sup.d,Y.sup.d denotes a desired robot task expressed in task space; K.sub.Vx and K.sub.Px are feedback gain matrices; c(q,q) is centripetal and coriolis terms; and g(q) is a gravity term. 15. The hybrid control system of claim 14 wherein the pseudoinverse Jacobian matrix, J.sub.o.sup.#, is further defined as where J.sub.w is the Jacobian matrix, J.sub.w.sup.T is a modified Jacobian matrix computed in accordance with a damped least squares technique, and m.sub.s1 (t) is a vector of variable damping factors. 16. The hybrid control system of claim 15 wherein the variable damping factors are defined to be zero when manipulator movement is out side of the first region. 17. The hybrid control system of claim 10 wherein the joint level controller is further defined by where u is a vector of applied torques; q is a vector denoting of joint displacements of the manipulator; D(q) is an inertia matrix for the manipulator; q.sup.d,q.sup.d,q.sup.d denotes a desired robot task expressed in the joint space; K.sub.Vq and K.sub.Pq are feedback gain matrices; c(q,q) is centripetal and coriolis terms; and g(q) is a gravity term. 18. A method for controlling the movement of a robot using a hybrid motion control system, comprising the steps of: providing a robot manipulator having a plurality of joints and an end-effector, such that the manipulator is operable to position and orientate the end-effector within a workspace; monitoring movement of the manipulator; detecting manipulator movement in a first region proximate to a singularity configuration associated with the manipulator; issuing a first set of control commands to the manipulator when manipulator movement falls outside of the first region, where the first set of control commands are defined in a task space; and issuing a second set of control commands to the manipulator when manipulator manipulator falls within the first region, where the second set of control commands are defined in a joint space. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprises the step of detecting manipulator movement in a second region proximate to the singularity configuration, where the first region is a subset of the second region. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the step of issuing a first set of control commands further comprises using an inverse Jacobian matrix to determine the first set of control commands when manipulator movement falls outside of the second region and using a pseudoinverse Jacobian matrix when the manipulator movement falls inside the second region but outside of the first region. 