A plurality of robots are positioned on a rotatable table for transporting parts to be processed through a plurality of work stations positioned around the periphery of the table. Each robot can carry a workpiece from one work station to the next. The rotation of the table moves the robot from one workstation to the next while carrying a part to be processed. Each robot can be independently movable relative to the other robots and each robot can be independently movable relative to the table. Each robot can include a welder for processing the workpiece independent of the workstation or during movement between work stations. Each robot can carry a plurality of differently configured workpieces between the work stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for moving a workpiece along an assembly line having a plurality of workstations, the apparatus comprising: a turntable having a periphery and an axis of rotation; a plurality of robots mounted along the periphery of the turntable and angularly spaced from each other relative to the rotational axis of the turntable, each robot for manipulating at least one workpiece; a plurality of workstations positioned adjacent to the periphery of the turntable angularly spaced from each other relative to the rotational axis; and means for rotating the turntable to move the workpiece being manipulated by each robot to another one of the plurality of workstations. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising the plurality of robots evenly spaced apart from each other at angular positions on the periphery of the turntable relative to the rotational axis. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a number of robots mounted to the turntable equal to a number of workstations positioned adjacent to the periphery of the turntable. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of robots further comprises: means for manipulating the workpiece relative to the turntable. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of robots further comprises: means for manipulating the workpiece relative to at least one other robot mounted along the periphery of the turntable. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of robots further comprises: means for positioning the workpiece within a fixture at one of the plurality of workstations. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of robots further comprises: interchangeable means for manipulating a plurality of differently configured workpieces. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: at least one welder mounted relative to each robot on the turntable for performing a welding operation on the workpiece being manipulated after the workpiece has been processed at one workstation while waiting for delivery to another workstation. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the workstations further comprises: at least one fixture for retaining one of a plurality of different configurations of workpiece to be moved through the assembly line. 