A cluster tool architecture and method are provided for processing substrates by exposure to a process environment, including a reactive gas, such as sulfur trioxide, as well as prior and subsequent treatments thereto. The cluster tool architecture comprises: (a) an atmospheric processing area, maintained at atmospheric pressure or higher; (b) cassette means for introducing a plurality of the substrates into the atmospheric processing area; (c) at least one process station in the atmospheric processing area; (d) an enclosed vacuum processing area, maintained at a vacuum pressure; (e) a first buffer station between the atmospheric processing area and the enclosed vacuum processing area; (f) at least one process station in the enclosed vacuum processing area isolated from the enclosed vacuum processing area by an isolation valve for exposing the substrates to the process environment; (g) a second buffer station between the atmospheric processing area and the enclosed vacuum processing area; (h) an atmospheric transfer arm in the atmospheric processing area for transferring the substrates from the cassette means between one of the buffer stations and at least one process station in the atmospheric processing area and then to the cassette means; and (i) a vacuum transfer arm in the enclosed vacuum processing area for transferring the substrates from one of the buffer stations to one of the vacuum process stations in the enclosed vacuum processing area and from that vacuum process station in the enclosed vacuum processing area to the buffer station, wherein both buffer stations are equally accessible to both the atmospheric transfer arm and the vacuum transfer arm. The cluster tool architecture integrates atmospheric or high pressure processing with vacuum processing. Since integration allows random access, there is a freedom of programming process flow. The architecture allows re-entry of substrates, so that process steps can be repeated at any time, and it allows substrates to be replaced back into original cassette after process is complete.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cluster tool architecture for processing substrates, including exposure to at least one process environment, comprising: (a) an atmospheric processing area, maintained at atmospheric pressure; (b) cassette means for introducing a plurality of said substrates into said atmospheric processing area; (c) at least one process station in said atmospheric processing area for exposing said substrates to at least one first process environment; (d) an enclosed vacuum processing area, maintained at a vacuum pressure; (e) a first buffer station between said atmospheric processing area and said enclosed vacuum processing area to pump and vent from atmospheric to vacuum pressures and transition said substrates from said atmospheric processing area to said enclosed vacuum processing area; (f) at least one process station in said enclosed vacuum processing area for exposing said substrates to said at least one second process environment; (g) a second buffer station between said atmospheric processing area and said enclosed vacuum processing area to re-pressurize from vacuum to atmospheric pressures and transition said substrates from said enclosed vacuum processing area to said atmospheric processing area; (h) an atmospheric transfer arm in said atmospheric processing area for transferring said substrates from said cassette means between one said buffer station and said at least one process station in said atmospheric processing area and then to said cassette means; and (i) a vacuum transfer arm in said enclosed vacuum processing area for transferring said substrates from one said buffer station to said at least one process station in said enclosed vacuum processing area and from said at least one vacuum process station in said enclosed vacuum processing area to one said buffer station, wherein both buffer stations are equally accessible to both the atmospheric transfer arm and the vacuum transfer arm. 2. The cluster tool architecture of claim 1, wherein said at least one second process environment comprises exposure to a reactive gas. 3. The cluster tool architecture of claim 2, wherein said reactive gas consists essentially of sulfur trioxide. 4. The cluster tool architecture of claim 1 wherein said atmospheric processing area contains at least one of process station, for cleaning and drying of said substrates. 5. The cluster tool of architecture of claim 1 wherein said atmospheric processing area can contain more than one process station for the cleaning and drying of said substrates or for processing said substrates, whether in an atmosphere with a chemical or physical process prior to or post SO.sub.3 exposure. 6. The cluster tool architecture of claim 1 wherein said vacuum processing area contains at least one vacuum process station, for processing a said substrate in said reactive gas. 7. The cluster tool architecture of claim 1 wherein said vacuum processing area contains more than one duplicate vacuum process stations, each for processing a said substrate in said reactive gas. 8. The cluster tool architecture of claim 1 wherein said vacuum processing area contains at least one vacuum process station, for processing a said substrate in said reactive gas plus additional vacuum process stations for integrated vacuum processing, for example, plasma ashing, plasma pattern etching or gas phase HF processing. 9. A method of processing a single substrate at a time in a cluster format, said method comprising: (a) unloading at least one said substrate from a loading/unloading cassette in a user-defined order by a first robotic arm, in a controlled atmosphere in an atmospheric processing area; (b) optionally aligning said at least one substrate in a station which determines a flat or edge portion of said at least one substrate and centers said substrate; (c) loading said at least one substrate into a first available buffer station, where said at least one substrate is pumped down to vacuum or sub-atmospheric pressure; (d) unloading said at least one substrate by a second robotic arm from said buffer station and loading said at least one substrate into at least one vacuum process station in an enclosed vacuum processing area, where vacuum processing takes place, said loading taking place in random order in which a first available said vacuum process station is loaded with said at least one substrate; (e) removing said at least one substrate by a second robotic arm from said processing station and loading said at least one substrate into at least one subsequent vacuum process station in an enclosed vacuum processing area, where additional vacuum processing takes place, said loading taking place in random order in which a first available said vacuum process station is loaded with said at least one substrate; (f) removing said at least one substrate from said vacuum process station after processing is completed and loading said at least one substrate into a first available said buffer station, where said at least one substrate is vented to atmosphere pressure or high pressure; (g) unloading said at least one substrate from said buffer station by said first robotic arm and moving said at least one substrate to an atmospheric process station for single substrate or multiple substrate processing; and (h) processing said at least one substrate in said atmospheric process station and complete processing to present a dry substrate for said first robotic arm to pick up and load into either an exit cassette or alternatively re-load into first available buffer station for repeated processing. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said controlled atmosphere is at ambient pressure or high pressure. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said atmospheric process station is exposed to said controlled atmosphere. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said atmospheric process station performs a variety of post-processing procedures, including at least one of water rinsing, and processes requiring high pressures. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein in said at least one vacuum process station, said at least one substrate is exposed to a reactive gas. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said reactive gas consists essentially of sulfur trioxide. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein in said at least one vacuum process station, said at least one substrate is exposed to an integrated process including plasma ashing, plasma pattern etching, or gas phase HF processing. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein said substrate is selected from the group consisting of semiconductor wafers, flat panel displays, photomasks, thin film heads, hard disk substrates, ink-jet heads, flexible circuits, MEMS (Micro Electro Mechanical Systems) device substrates, and printed circuit boards. 17. The method of claim 9, wherein said mechanisms defined by said cluster tool architecture are computer-controlled with appropriate software to perform sequences as described. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein operation of said cluster tool architecture is by means of a computer and a graphical user interface to facilitate human interface with said apparatus. 19. The method of claim 9, wherein after step (a), said at least one substrate is subjected to any combination of first chemical and physical pre-processing steps in said controlled atmosphere. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said first pre-processing steps include steps selected from the group consisting of: (a) chemical treatment with at least one liquid chemical or liquid solvent or both; (b) chemical treatment with at least one reactive gas in a neutral, radical, or ionized state; (c) physical treatment with heat, infrared, ultra-violet light radiation, high intensity laser energy, high-impact, kinetic energy treatment, or high-pressure deionized water or steam; and (d) rinsing with low-pressure or high-pressure DI water spray, with or without megasonic and/or ultrasonic treatment and with or without physical scrubbing. 21. The method of claim 9, wherein in step (d), said at least one substrate is first subjected to any combination of second chemical and physical pre-processing steps in said vacuum, followed by treatment with sulfur trioxide. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said second-preprocessing steps include steps selected from the group consisting of: (a) chemical treatment with reactive gases in neutral, radical, or ionized state; (b) chemical treatment in a plasma environment; and (c) physical treatment with heat, infrared, ultra-violet light radiation, or high intensity laser energy. 23. The method of claim 9, wherein in step (d), said at least one substrate is subjected to treatment with sulfur trioxide, followed by any combination of first chemical and physical post-processing steps in said vacuum. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said first post-processing steps include steps selected from the group consisting of: (a) chemical treatment with reactive gases in neutral, radical, or ionized state;. (b) chemical treatment in a plasma environment; and (c) physical treatment may be done with heat, infrared, ultra-violet light radiation, or high intensity laser energy. 25. The method of claim 9, wherein in step (g), said at least one substrate is subjected to any combination of second chemical and physical post-processing steps in said atmospheric chamber. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said second post-processing steps include steps selected from the group consisting of: (a) chemical treatment with at least one liquid chemical or liquid solvent or both; (b) chemical treatment with at least one reactive gas in a neutral, radical, or ionized state; (c) physical treatment may be done with heat, infrared (IR), ultra-violet light radiation, high intensity laser energy, high-impact, kinetic energy treatment, or high-pressure deionized water or steam; and (d) rinsing with low- or high-pressure deionized water spray, with or without megasonic and/or ultrasonic treatment and with or without physical scrubbing. 