An improved end effector for use with a robot includes a pair of carriages. Each carriage supports a pair of fingers and at least one actuator. Each actuator is interconnected with the associated pair of fingers to counter-rotate the fingers. One or both of the carriages is movable toward the other carriage to engage trays on a conveyor system with the fingers. The robot moves the end effector between the conveyor system and shipping containers for shipping the trays. Because the pairs of fingers counter-rotate, the friction forces between each finger and the tray is offset by the friction forces between the other finger in the pair and the tray. The improved end effector thereby maintains trays substantially in the desired stacking orientation within the shipping container. Preferably, an actuator is provided for each finger. A change-out mechanism may also be provided to facilitate replacing the fingers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A carriage for use in an end effector, the carriage comprising: a body; first and second fingers, each including a support portion and a journal portion having a longitudinal axis, said journal portion being supported for rotation about said longitudinal axis by said body, said support portion being angled with respect to said longitudinal axis; at least one actuator selectively causing said journal portions to counter-rotate with respect to each other; and a clamp mounted on at least one of said fingers to releasably interconnect said finger with said body. 2. The carriage of claim 1, wherein said clamp includes first and second portions sandwiching a portion of said finger, and a pin coupling said clamp and said finger for rotation with each other. 3. A carriage for use in an end effector, the carriage comprising: a body; first and second fingers, each including a support portion and a journal portion having a longitudinal axis, said journal portion being supported for rotation about said longitudinal axis by said body, said support portion being angled with respect to said longitudinal axis; and at least one actuator selectively causing said journal portions to counter-rotate with respect to each other, wherein said at least one actuator includes first and second actuators, wherein said first and second actuators are interconnected with said body and with said first and second fingers, respectively, and operable to selectively rotate said first and second fingers, respectively, about said respective longitudinal axes. 4. The carriage of claim 3, wherein said first actuator is disposed above and substantially parallel to said second actuator. 5. The carriage of claim 3, wherein said first and second actuators are pneumatic actuators. 6. The carriage of claim 3, further comprising a first actuator arm interconnected between said first actuator and said first finger, and a second actuator arm interconnected between said second actuator and said second finger, said first and second actuator arms converting linear movement of said first and second actuators into rotation of said first and second fingers, respectively. 7. The carriage of claim 6, further comprising first and second split clamps removably coupling said first and second fingers, respectively, for rotation with said first and second actuator arms, respectively. 8. The carriage of claim 7, wherein said body includes a first pair of journal bearings associated with said first finger, and a second pair journal bearings associated with said second finger, and wherein said first clamp is disposed between said first pair of journal bearings and said second clamp is disposed between said second pair of journal bearings. 9. The carriage of claim 8, further comprising at least one spacer disposed between said first clamp and said body, and at least one spacer disposed between said second clamp and said body. 10. An end effector for use with a robot, the end effector comprising: a chassis; first and second carriages interconnected with said chassis, said first carriage being movable toward said second carriage; first and second pairs of fingers interconnected with and rotatable with respect to said first and second carriages, respectively; a first pair of actuators interconnected between said first carriage and said first pair of fingers, and actuable to counter-rotate said first pair of fingers; and a second pair of actuators interconnected between said second carriage and said second pair of fingers, and actuable to counter-rotate said second pair of fingers. 11. The end effector of claim 10, wherein said second carriage is movable toward said first carriage. 12. The end effector of claim 10, further comprising a clamp associated with each said finger, each said clamp including first and second portions sandwiching said associated finger and interconnecting said associated finger with an associated actuator. 13. The end effector of claim 10, further comprising a harness and a plurality of supply lines interconnecting said end effector with the rest of the robot, wherein said harness reduces tangling and pinching of said supply lines during operation of the robot. 14. The end effector of claim 10, further comprising a shelf lowering mechanism. 15. The end effector of claim 10, further comprising a change-out mechanism for facilitating the replacement of said fingers. 16. An end effector for use with a robot, the end effector comprising: a chassis; a carriage interconnected with said chassis; a finger interconnected with said carriage and rotatable about a longitudinal axis with respect to said carriage; and a change-out mechanism interconnected between said carriage and said finger to facilitate replacement of said finger, said change-out mechanism including a clamp and a coupling member coupling said clamp with said finger. 17. The end effector of claim 16, further comprising a second finger interconnected with said carriage and rotatable about a longitudinal axis with respect to said carriage, said first and second fingers; and first and second actuators selectively counter-rotating said fingers. 18. The end effector of claim 16, wherein said finger is removable from said change-out mechanism in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis. 19. An end effector for moving an object, the end effector comprising: a chassis; at least one carriage having a body coupled to said chassis, said body including at least one pair of spaced-apart bearings; at least one pair of fingers coupled to said body, each finger extending through said at least one pair of spaced-apart bearings; and at least one actuator coupled between said at least one carriage and said at least one pair of fingers. 