Method for passivating a layer of titanium that has been deposited on a substrate in a reaction chamber to coat the titanium thereby reducing the likelihood of contamination by byproducts of the deposition process or ambient oxygen or similar reactants. The method includes adding a flow of hydrogen and a flow of nitrogen to the chamber. The flows of hydrogen and nitrogen are approximately 800 sccm and continue for approximately 10-30 seconds respectively. The method may further comprise the step of forming a nitrogen plasma in the chamber for approximately 10 seconds wherein such case the flows of hydrogen and nitrogen continue for approximately 8 seconds respectively. The plasma is formed by applying RF power to an electrode located within said chamber or by a remote plasma source and channeled to said reactor chamber. Alternately, the passivation layer may be formed just by using a nitrogen plama alone for approximately 10-30 seconds at the same RF power level. The plasma in either case may further comprise hydrogen and argon and the layer of titanium has been deposited by CVD.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for passivating a layer of titanium that has been deposited on a substrate in a reaction chamber, comprising the step of: (A) adding a flow of hydrogen and a flow of nitrogen to the chamber in the absence of a plasma. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said flows of hydrogen and nitrogen are each approximately 800 sccm. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said flows of hydrogen and nitrogen each continue for approximately 10-30 seconds. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said layer of titanium has been deposited by CVD. 5. A method for passivating a layer of titanium that has been deposited on a substrate in a reaction chamber, comprising the steps of: (A) forming a thin layer of titanium nitride by supplying a flow of hydrogen and a flow of nitrogen to the reaction chamber in the absence of a plasma; and (B) exposing the substrate to a plasma comprising nitrogen in the chamber. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said plasma is a nitrogen plasma. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said flows of hydrogen and nitrogen are each approximately 800 sccm. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein said flows of hydrogen and nitrogen each continue for approximately 8 seconds. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein said plasma continues for approximately 10 seconds. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein said plasma is formed by applying RF power to an electrode located within said chamber. 11. The method of claim 5 wherein said plasma is formed in a remote plasma source and channeled to said reactor chamber. 