A robotic cartridge picker (92) for a cartridge library (20) has picker fingers (84) for selecting engaging and disengaging a media cartridge (64), and an electronic device (180) carried thereon. A ribbon cable (182) supplies at least one of power and an electrical signal to the electronic device. The robotic picker is rotatably mounted on a mounting block (140). The mounting block has a chamber (188) wherein a portion of the ribbon cable is carried in a variable coiled configuration to accommodate rotation of the robot about an axis (100). The variable coiled configuration facilitates the ribbon cable having a first degree of coiling when the picker robot rotates to a first position and a second degree of coiling when the picker robot rotates to a second position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot assembly comprising: a robot which rotates about an axis from a first position to a second position, the robot having an electronic device carried thereon; a ribbon cable which supplies at least one of power and an electrical signal to the electronic device; a mounting block upon which the robot is mounted, the mounting block having a chamber wherein a portion of the ribbon cable is carried in a variable coiled configuration to accommodate rotation of the robot. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting block is a carriage which linearly translates with the robot. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the variable coiled configuration facilitates the cabling having a first degree of coiling when the robot rotates to its first position and a second degree of coiling when the robot rotates to its second position. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first degree of coiling is 4 coils of the ribbon cable and the second degree of coiling is 3.5 coils of the ribbon cable. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chamber is concentric with the axis of rotation of the robot. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chamber is cylindrical and concentric with the axis of rotation of the robot. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the chamber is cylindrical and has a circumferential aperture through which the ribbon cable enters the chamber. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the aperture is elongated in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the robot. 9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the mounting block has a bulbous protrusion proximate the aperture, and wherein a clip secures a portion of the ribbon cable to the mounting block at the bulbous protrusion. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ribbon cable exits the chamber in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the robot. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ribbon cable exits the chamber in a direction parallel to an axis about which the ribbon cable is coiled. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mounting block includes a gear for translating rotation of a shaft extending through the mounting block into rotational motion of the robot. 13. A cartridge picker for a cartridge library, the picker comprising: a picker robot having picker fingers for selecting engaging and disengaging a media cartridge, the picker robot having an electronic device carried thereon; a ribbon cable which supplies at least one of power and an electrical signal to the electronic device; a mounting block upon which the picker robot is rotatably mounted so that the picker robot rotates about an axis from a first position to a second position, the mounting block having a chamber wherein a portion of the ribbon cable is carried in a variable coiled configuration to accommodate rotation of the robot. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the mounting block is a carriage which linearly translates with the picker robot. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the variable coiled configuration facilitates the cabling having a first degree of coiling when the picker robot rotates to its first position and a second degree of coiling when the picker robot rotates to its second position. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first degree of coiling is 4 coils of the ribbon cable and the second degree of coiling is 3.5 coils of the ribbon cable. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the chamber is concentric with the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the chamber is cylindrical and concentric with the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the chamber is cylindrical and has a circumferential aperture through which the ribbon cable enters the chamber. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the aperture is elongated in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the mounting block has a bulbous protrusion proximate the aperture, and wherein a clip secures a portion of the ribbon cable to the mounting block at the bulbous protrusion. 22. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the ribbon cable exits the chamber in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 23. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the ribbon cable exits the chamber in a direction parallel to an axis about which the ribbon cable is coiled. 24. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the mounting block includes a gear for translating rotation of a shaft extending through the mounting block into rotational motion of the picker robot. 25. An automated media library comprising: a library frame; a drive which performs at least one of recording and reproducing operations with respect to media in a media cartridge loaded into the drive; a cartridge magazine situated in the library frame and which accommodates plural media cartridges; a picker robot which transports a cartridge between the drive and the cartridge magazine, a picker robot having picker fingers for selecting engaging and disengaging a media cartridge, the picker robot having an electronic device carried thereon; a ribbon cable which supplies at least one of power and an electrical signal to the electronic device; a mounting block upon which the picker robot is rotatably mounted so that the picker robot rotates about an axis from a first position to a second position, the mounting block having a chamber wherein a portion of the ribbon cable is carried in a variable coiled configuration to accommodate rotation of the robot. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the mounting block is a carriage which linearly translates with the picker robot. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the variable coiled configuration facilitates the cabling having a first degree of coiling when the picker robot rotates to its first position and a second degree of coiling when the picker robot rotates to its second position. 28. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the first degree of coiling is 4 coils of the ribbon cable and the second degree of coiling is 3.5 coils of the ribbon cable. 29. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the chamber is concentric with the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 30. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the chamber is cylindrical and concentric with the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 31. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the chamber is cylindrical and has a circumferential aperture through which the ribbon cable enters the chamber. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the aperture is elongated in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the mounting block has a bulbous protrusion proximate the aperture, and wherein a clip secures a portion of the ribbon cable to the mounting block at the bulbous protrusion. 34. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the ribbon cable exits the chamber in a direction parallel to the axis of rotation of the picker robot. 35. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the ribbon cable exits the chamber in a direction parallel to an axis about which the ribbon cable is coiled. 36. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the mounting block includes a gear for translating rotation of a shaft extending through the mounting block into rotational motion of the picker robot. 