A method and apparatus for installing a part such as a gear into an assembly such as a gear set with low-stiffness and low inertia comprises an insertion mechanism that is connected to a controller at one end, and that is connected to the part at a second end. In one embodiment, the insertion mechanism at least permits rotational compliance about the z axis with respect to the controller independent of compliance in the x, y, and z axes to permit the part to mesh with the assembly during the installation process. In another embodiment, the insertion mechanism is compliant only along the x, y, and z axes.
Claims I claim: 1. A low-stiffness assemble assist mechanism for inserting a part into an assembly comprising: a mounting element that is configured for connection to a controller; and an output element that is connected to said mounting element at one end, and that is connected to a tool holder at a second end opposite said first end, wherein the tool holder receives the part that is to be inserted into the assembly, wherein said assembly assist mechanism lacks any powered actuators that translate said output element relative to said mounting element, wherein said output element is passively movable along a z axis relative to said mounting element in order to insert the part into the assembly, and wherein said movement in the z direction is independent of rotational movement of said out put element about the z axis. 2. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein the assembly assist mechanism comprises a gear insertion mechanism that is configured to insert a gear into a gear set. 3. A low-stiffness assembly assist mechanism for inserting a part into an assembly, comprising: a mounting element that is configured for connection to a controller; and an output element that is connected to said mounting element at one end, and that is connected to a tool holder at a second end opposite said first end, wherein the tool holder receives the part that is to be inserted into the assembly, wherein said output element is passively movable along a z axis relative to said mounting element in order to insert the part into the assembly, and wherein said movement in the z direction is independent of rotational movement of said output element about the z axis, and wherein said mechanism further comprises at least one double universal joint connected to said output element, which permits movement of said output element in the x and y directions relative to said mounting element. 4. The mechanism of claim 3, further comprising springs that are connected to said output element so as to permit said movement of said output element in the z direction relative to said mounting element. 5. The mechanism of claim 4, further comprising: a main support element; and a shaft connecting said main support element to said mounting element, wherein said main support element is connected to said shaft via a bearing, and wherein said main support element is rotatable about said shaft via the bearing. 6. The mechanism of claim 5, wherein rotation of said main support element rotates said output element. 7. The mechanism of claim 5, wherein said insertion mechanism includes a switch that generates a signal indicative of successful insertion of the part into the assembly. 8. The mechanism of claim 2, further including a lock assembly that prevents rotation of the part with respect to the mounting element. 9. A gear insertion mechanism for inserting a part into an assembly, comprising: a mounting element that is configured for connection to a controller; and an output element that is connected to said mounting element and to a tool holder, wherein said output element has at least four degrees of freedom with respect to said mounting element, and wherein said gear insertion mechanism lacks any powered actuators that translate said output element relative to said mounting element, wherein said output element is passively movable along a z axis relative to said mounting element in order to insert a gear into a gear set, and wherein said movement in the z direction is independent of rotational movement of said output element about the z axis. 10. The mechanism of claim 9, wherein said output element is translatable in a z direction and generally along a z axis relative to the mounting element, and is further rotatable about the z axis relative to the mounting element, and wherein rotation about the z axis occurs independently of said translation in the z direction. 11. A gear insertion mechanism for inserting a gear into a gear set, wherein said mechanism comprises: a mounting element configured to connected to a controller; and an output element configured to receive a gear, wherein said gear insertion mechanism lacks any powered actuators and said output element is passively translatable generally along a z axis relative to the controller, and wherein said mechanism is rotatable about the z axis relative to the controller, and wherein said rotation takes place independently of said translation. 12. A gear insertion mechanism comprising: a mounting plate that is connected to a controller; a shaft that extends generally along a z axis and that is connected to said mounting plate; a main support plate that is rotatably connected to said shaft via a bearing that permits rotation of said main support plate about the z axis; and an output plate that is connectable to a gear to be installed, and that is rotatably fixed to said mounting plate via a set of pins, wherein a set of springs surrounds said set of pin to permit movement of said output shaft generally along the z axis and relative to said mounting plate. 13. The mechanism of claim 12, further comprising a set of double universal joints that are connected to said output plate so as to permit translation of said output plate in a direction generally perpendicular to said z axis. 