A self-orienting device comprises: a housing; a sensor mounted to the housing that is sensitive to a signal field and configured to produce a signal responsive to the signal field; a translation-inducing unit associated with the housing; rotation-inducing unit attached to the housing, wherein the translation-inducing unit and the rotation-inducing unit are configured such that the housing travels along a helical trajectory having an axis and is free to rotate about the axis; and a controller operably associated with the sensor for controlling the output of at least one of the translation-inducing unit and the rotation-inducing unit, wherein the controller is configured such that it receives the signal from the sensor and, responsive to the signal, controls the output of at least one of the translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit. A device so configured can automatically orient to a signal. In this configuration, orientation is robust--wide variance in the parameters relating .omega. to signal intensity are tolerated. In fact, if .omega. changes as a function of signal intensity, then orientation to the signal is the only stable outcome. Exemplary signal fields for the device include light, magnetic fields, and gradients of temperature, chemical concentration and depth. The devices can be employed to perform such tasks as locating lost objects, identifying foreign objects, performing transect sampling, guiding munitions, disabling mines, delivering chemical agents, and the like.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A self-orienting device for travel through a fluid medium, comprising: a housing; a sensor mounted to said housing that is sensitive to a signal field and configured to produce a signal responsive to the signal field; a translation-inducing unit associated with said housing; a rotation-inducing unit attached to said housing; said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit being configured such that said housing travels along a helical trajectory having an axis and is free to rotate about the axis responsive to the rotation-inducing unit; and a controller operably associated with said sensor for controlling the output of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit, said controller being configured such that it receives the signal from said sensor and, responsive to said signal, can simultaneously control the output of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit without requiring a system controlling attitude of the device. 2. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said device is configured for travel through air. 3. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said device is configured for travel through water. 4. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said sensor is sensitive to a signal field selected from the group consisting of: temperature gradient, depth gradient, chemical gradient, and light. 5. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said rotation-inducing unit comprises a rotating member that rotates about an axis that is non-coincident with the axis of the helical trajectory. 6. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said rotation-inducing unit comprises a mass eccentrically mounted within said housing. 7. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said rotation-inducing unit comprises at least one thruster mounted to said housing to provide thrust along an axis that is non-coincident to the axis of the helical trajectory. 8. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said rotation-inducing unit comprises one or more fins asymmetrically mounted to said housing. 9. The device defined in claim 1, wherein said housing is configured to be asymmetrical about the axis of the helical trajectory. 10. The device defined in claim 1, further comprising a payload contained within said housing selected from the group consisting of: explosives; neutralizing agents; dyes; and signaling units. 11. The device defined in claim 1, further comprising a data collection unit. 12. The device defined in claim 1, further comprising a data transmission unit. 13. The device defined in claim 1, further comprising a signal transmitter. 14. The device defined in claim 1, further comprising a signal receiver configured to receives a signal that differs from the signal generated by the sensor. 15. A self-orienting device for travel through a fluid medium, comprising: a housing; a sensor mounted to said housing that is sensitive to a stimulus vector field and configured to produce a signal responsive to the stimulus vector field; a thrust unit associated with said housing; a torque-inducing unit attached to said housing; said thrust unit and said torque-inducing unit being configured such that said housing travels along a helical path having an axis and is free to rotate about the axis responsive to the torque-inducing unit; and a controller operably associated with said sensor for controlling the output of at least one of said thrust unit and said torque-inducing unit, said controller being configured such that it receives the signal from said sensor and, responsive to said signal, can simultaneously control the output of at least one of said thrust unit and said torque-inducing unit without requiring a system controlling attitude of the device. 16. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said device is configured for travel through air. 17. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said device is configured for travel through water. 18. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said sensor is sensitive to a signal field selected from the group consisting of: temperature gradient, depth gradient, chemical gradient, and light. 19. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said torque-inducing unit comprises a rotating member that rotates about an axis that is non-coincident with the axis of the helical trajectory. 20. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said torque-inducing unit comprises a mass eccentrically mounted within said housing. 21. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said torque-inducing unit comprises at least one thruster-providing unit mounted to said housing to provide thrust along an axis that is non-coincident to the axis of the helical trajectory. 22. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said torque-inducing unit comprises one or more fins asymmetrically mounted to said housing. 23. The device defined in claim 15, wherein said housing is configured to be asymmetrical about the axis of the helical trajectory. 24. The device defined in claim 15, further comprising a payload contained within said housing selected from the group consisting of: explosives; neutralizing agents; dyes; and signaling units. 25. The device defined in claim 15, further comprising a data collection unit. 26. The device defined in claim 15, further comprising a data transmission unit. 27. The device defined in claim 15, further comprising a signal transmitter. 28. The device defined in claim 15, further comprising a signal receiver configured to receives a signal that differs from the signal generated by the sensor. 29. A method of steering a device in three dimensions in a fluid, comprising the steps of: providing a device comprising: a housing; a sensor mounted to said housing that is sensitive to a signal field and configured to produce a signal responsive to the signal field; a translation-inducing unit associated with said housing; a rotation-inducing unit attached to said housing; said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit being configured such that said housing travels along a helical trajectory having an axis and rotates about the axis; and a controller operably associated with said sensor for controlling the output of at least one of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit, said controller being con figured such that it receives the signal from said sensor and, responsive to said signal, controls the output of at least one of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit; releasing the device into a fluid such that the device travels along a helical trajectory; detecting a signal field with the sensor; transmitting a signal to the controller from the detector that is indicative of the magnitude of the signal field; and transmitting a signal to at least one of the translation-inducing unit and the rotation-inducing unit to alter the helical trajectory of the device. 30. The method defined in claim 29, wherein said second transmitting step comprises transmitting a signal to the translation-inducing unit to disengage from inducing translation. 31. The method defined in claim 30, wherein said detecting step comprises detecting an extremum in the signal field. 32. The method defined in claim 31, comprising repeating the detecting step and the first transmitting step after performance of the second transmitting step, and further comprising the step of engaging the translation-inducing unit after the sensor detects a second extremum in the signal field. 33. A device for locating an object in a three-dimensional fluid volume, comprising: a housing; a first sensor mounted to said housing that is sensitive to a stimulus vector field emitted by or reflected from the object and configured to produce a signal responsive to the stimulus vector field; a second sensor sensitive to a signal beacon mounted to said housing; a signal beacon unit mounted to said housing; a translation-inducing unit associated with said housing; a rotation-inducing unit attached to said housing; said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit being configured such that said housing travels along a helical path having an axis and rotates about the axis; and a controller operably associated with said second sensor for controlling the output of at least one of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit, said controller being configured such that it receives the signal from said second sensor and, responsive to said signal, controls the output of at least one of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit. 34. The device defined in claim 33, wherein said signal beacon unit is an acoustical beacon unit, and said second sensor is sensitive to an acoustical beacon emitted from the acoustical beacon unit. 35. A method for locating an object in a three-dimensional fluid volume, comprising the steps of: releasing a plurality of devices into the three-dimensional fluid volume and allowing each device to travel along a helical trajectory, each of said devices comprising: a housing; a first sensor mounted to said housing that is sensitive to a signal field emitted by or reflected from the object and configured to produce a signal responsive to the signal field; a second sensor sensitive to a signal beacon mounted to said housing; a signal beacon unit mounted to said housing; a translation-inducing unit associated with said housing; a rotation-inducing unit attached to said housing; said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit being configured such that said housing travels along a helical trajectory having an axis and rotates about the axis; and a controller operably associated with said second sensor for controlling the output of at least one of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit, said controller being configured such that it receives the signal from said second sensor and, responsive to said signal, controls the output of at least one of said translation-inducing unit and said rotation-inducing unit; and after a first device detects the object, transmitting a signal with the beacon unit to indicate the location of the object to the remaining devices. 36. A method for steering a device in a three-dimensional fluid volume, comprising the steps of: propelling a device along a helical path; detecting a signal field with an on-board sensor; and modifying the helical path responsive to the detection by the sensor to align the rotational velocity vector of the device toward a target. 37. The method defined in claim 36, wherein said target is an object. 38. The method defined in claim 36, wherein said target is a direction. 