The present invention comprises a material handling device and method for transferring material from one location to another. More specifically, the present invention relates to a device for placing material onto a pallet and/or removing material from a pallet. The device has a pedestal with a working arm pivotally connected to the pedestal. The working arm is driven by a horizontal motion actuator. Connected to the working arm and horizontal motion actuator is a cam follower that is received in a cam track on a cam track plate. The cam track plate can be easily removed and replaced with another plate with the cam tracks in a different arrangement. The horizontal motion actuator moves the cam follower along the cam track, resulting in movement of the working arm along a pre-selected path. At the end of the working arm is a material holder used for grasping and releasing the material to be transferred. The material holder has the ability to move vertically relative to the pedestal, thus allowing material to stacked, or removed from different elevations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A material handling device comprising: a pedestal; a plate supported by said pedestal having at least two cam tracks; a working arm having a first end connected to said pedestal and a second end remote from said pedestal; a cam follower coupled to said working arm and selectively engageable with each of said at least two cam tracks, and a switching element for selectively switching said cam follower into engagement with a selected one of said at least two cam tracks; and an actuator coupled to said working arm for moving said cam follower along said selected one of said at least two cam tracks, wherein movement of said cam follower along said selected one of said at least two cam tracks causes movement of said second end of said working arm along a predetermined path corresponding to said selected one of said at least two cam tracks. 2. The material handling device of claim 1, wherein said working arm forms part of a pantograph assembly coupled to said cam follower, said pantograph assembly including a first member extending from said first end of said working arm and a second member extending from said second end of said working arm, and wherein said first and said second members are each pivotally connected. 3. The material handling device of claim 2, wherein said pantograph assembly further comprises: a first link having a first end pivotally connected to said first member at a position remote from said working arm and a second end pivotally connected to said cam follower; and a second link having a first end pivotally connected to said second member at a position remote from said working arm and a second end pivotally connected to said cam follower. 4. The material handling device of claim 3, wherein said first link is substantially parallel to said second member of said working arm and said second link is substantially parallel to said first member of said working arm. 5. The material handling device of claim 4, wherein said first link and second link are pivotally connected to each other and to said cam follower. 6. The material handling device of claim 1, wherein said plate is removably supported by said pedestal. 7. The material handling device of claim 1, wherein said plate has more than two cam tracks. 8. The material handling device of claim 1, wherein said plate includes a common area in which said at least two cam tracks communicate, said cam tracks each having a first end communicating with said common area and a second end remote from said common area. 9. The material handling device of claim 8, wherein said switching element comprises a rotary switch plate arranged to engage said cam follower when said cam follower is in said common area. 10. The material handling device of claim 8, wherein said switching element is a linear actuator. 11. The material handling device of claim 9, wherein said rotary switch plate is mechanically driven. 12. The material handling device of claim 9, wherein said rotary switch plate is electromechanically driven. 13. The material handling device of claim 9, wherein said rotary switch plate is pneumatically driven. 14. The material handling device of claim 1, wherein said second end of said working arm includes a material holder for grasping and releasing material to be transferred. 15. The material handling device of claim 14, wherein said material holder comprises a vacuum cup for attaching and releasing the material to be transferred. 16. The material handling device of claim 14, wherein said material holder includes a rotary motion actuator for rotating said material holder about a vertical axis. 17. The material handling device of claim 14, wherein said material holder further comprises a vertical actuator for moving said material holder in a vertical direction. 18. The material handling device of claim 1, further comprising a programmable controller for controlling the operation of said material handling device. 19. The material handling device of claim 18, further including a plurality of sensors mounted to said pedestal and along said cam tracks wherein said controller receives input information from said plurality of sensors. 20. The material handling device of claim 19, wherein at least one of said plurality of sensors is arranged at a location where said material to be transferred is lifted by said material holder and wherein at least one other of said plurality of sensors is arranged at a location where said material to be transferred is released by said material holder. 21. The material handling device of claim 18, wherein said controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said actuator. 22. The material handling device of claim 18, wherein said controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said vertical actuator. 23. The material handling device of claim 18, wherein said controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said switching element. 24. The material handling device of claim 18, wherein said controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said rotary motion actuators. 25. The material handling device of claim 1, wherein said plate comprises a first plate, and said material handling device further includes a second plate attached to said pedestal, and having at least two cam tracks and wherein said cam follower is movable between said first plate and said second plate so as to be engagable. 26. The material handling device of claim 25, wherein said second plate is connected to said pedestal at a position vertically below said first plate and said actuator. 27. The material handling device of claim 26, further including a pin actuator for actuating said cam follower between said first and second plates, and a shift slide lock for restraining said cam follower once engaged in one of said first or second plates. 28. The material handling device of claim 27, wherein said second plate has more than two cam tracks. 29. A material handling device comprising: a pedestal; a pantograph track plate supported by said pedestal, said pantograph track plate including at least two cam tracks; at least one pantograph assembly movably connected to said pedestal and having at least one end of said pantograph assembly receivable within each of said at least two cam tracks; a material holder connected to said pantograph assembly; an actuator connected to said material holder; a cam follower coupled to said pantograph assembly and receivable within each of said at least two cam tracks for guiding the direction of said material holder during operation; and a switching element for switching said cam follower between said at least two cam tracks, whereby said material holder moves along a path of movement corresponding to the cam track in which said cam follower is positioned. 30. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said at least two cam tracks guide the movement of said material holder in a substantially horizontal plane. 31. The material handling device of claim 30, wherein each of said at least two cam tracks define a plurality of predetermined positions for said material holder in a substantially horizontal plane. 32. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said pantograph track plate is removably supported by said pedestal. 33. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said pantograph track plate has more than two cam tracks. 34. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said pantograph track plate further includes a common area in which said at least two cam tracks communicate, said cam tracks each having a first end communicating with said common area and a second end remote from said common area. 35. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said switching element comprises a first rotary motion actuator arranged to engage said cam follower when said cam follower is in said common area. 36. The material handling device of claim 35, wherein said first rotary motion actuator is mechanically driven. 37. The material handling device of claim 35, wherein said first rotary motion actuator is electromechanically driven. 38. The material handling device of claim 35, wherein said first rotary motion actuator is pneumatically driven. 39. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said at least one pantograph assembly comprises at least four rigid members pivotably connected to each other to form a parallelogram. 40. The material handling device of claim 39, wherein one of said rigid members is connected to said material holder. 41. The material handling device of claim 39, wherein one of said rigid members is connected to said actuator. 42. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said material holder includes a vertical actuator for movement of said material holder in a vertical direction. 43. The material handling device of claim 42, wherein said material holder further comprises a vacuum cup for attaching and releasing material to be transferred. 44. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said mate rial holder is capable of rotation about a vertical axis for orienting the material to be transferred relative to other material to be transferred. 45. The material handling device of claim 44, further including a second rotary motion actuator for rotating said material holder about said vertical axis. 46. The material handling device of claim 29, wherein said horizontal motion actuator actuates said pantograph assembly to provide movement of said cam follower and pantograph assembly along a selected one of said at least two cam tracks. 47. The material handling device of claim 46, wherein said actuator is driven by a pneumatic air cylinder. 48. The material handling device of claim 29, further comprising a programmable controller for controlling the operation of said material handling device. 49. The material handling device of claim 48, further including a plurality of sensors mounted along said at least two cam tracks, wherein said programmable controller receives input information from said plurality of sensors. 50. The material handling device of claim 48, wherein said sensors are at least placed where material to be transferred is lifted by said material holder and where material to be transferred is released by said material holder. 51. The material handling device of claim 50, wherein said programmable controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said switching element. 52. The material handling device of claim 50, wherein said programmable controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said vertical actuator. 53. The material handling device of claim 50, wherein said programmable controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said first and second rotary actuators. 54. The material handling device of claim 50, wherein said programmable controller controls the position and timing of the movement of said actuator. 55. The material handling device of claim 29, further comprising an embedded controller or microprocessor for controlling the operation of said material handling device. 56. A method for handling material comprising the steps of: providing a material handling device comprising a pedestal; a cam track plate movably supported by said pedestal, said cam track plate having at least one cam track; a working arm movably connected to said pedestal and partially received within said at least one cam track; an actuator assembly connected to said pedestal and said working arm for moving said working arm along a predetermined path; and a cam follower coupled to said working arm and partially received within said at least one cam track for guiding said working arm along said predetermined path within said at least one cam track; placing a payload to be transferred in a loading position adjacent to said working arm; transferring said payload to be transferred to said working arm; actuating said actuator assembly to move said working arm carrying said payload to be transferred from said loading position to an unloading position; and transferring said payload to be transferred on to said unloading position. 57. The method of claim 56, wherein said working arm further includes a pantograph assembly connected to said pedestal and partially received within said at least one cam track and said actuator assembly moves said working arm and said pantograph assembly carrying said payload to be transferred from said loading position to an unloading position. 58. The method of claim 56, wherein said payload to be transferred is placed on a pallet adjacent to the working arm. 59. The method of claim 56, wherein said payload to be transferred is placed onto a pallet. 