A modular robot system is provided with memory means for memorizing task information concerning task of each component unit and the recognition means for recognizing the task of each component unit based on the task information of each component unit. Further, the modular robot system is provided with linkage condition detection means for detecting the linkage condition of each component unit, memory means for memorizing the linkage condition of each component unit every category, of which the configuration of robot system to be assembled is classified into multiple categories according to the linkage condition of each component unit, and judgment means for judging the category of the robot system to be assembled based on the linkage condition of each component unit detected by the linkage condition detection means and the linkage condition of each component unit every category memorized by the memory means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot apparatus comprising: a plurality of component units connected to the body of said robot apparatus via HUBs; linkage state detection means for detecting the state of linkage of said component units in terms of tree structure data which defines said state of linkage; memory means for storing a plurality of types of tree structure data representing a plurality of categories which correspond to a plurality of linkage states of the robot, and storing also a plurality of operation control programs that correspond to said plurality of categories, for controlling operations of said component units; category determination means for determining the category of the linkage state of said robot apparatus by comparing the result of the detection of the linkage state performed by said linkage state detection means with the linkage states of different categories stored in said memory means; and control means for controlling operations of said plurality of component units based on said operation control program selected according to the category determined by said determination means from among the plurality of operation control programs stored in said memory means. 2. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said tree structure data includes branching information of said component units. 3. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: said memory means stores multiple programs to generate basic operations in every category; and said category determination means forms a control signal for drive-controlling said each component unit based on the determined category said robot apparatus assembled belongs and a respective program stored in said memory means. 4. The robot apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a gravity sensor for detecting the direction of gravity, and wherein: the configuration of said robot apparatus to be assembled is classified into multiple categories according to said linkage state of said each component unit and a posture of said robot apparatus at an initial setting; and said category determination means determines which category said robot apparatus assembled belongs, based on the detection result of said gravity sensor and said linkage state of said each component unit for every category stored by said memory means. 5. The robot apparatus according to claim 4, comprising setting means for setting a posture of said robot apparatus assembled to an initial posture. 6. A robot system driving method for drive-controlling a robot to be assembled by connecting a plurality of component units to a body via HUBs, comprising the steps of: detecting a linkage state of said each component unit in terms of tree structure data; storing a plurality of types of tree structure data representing a plurality of categories which correspond to a plurality of linkage states of the robot, and storing also a plurality of operation control programs that correspond to said plurality of categories, for controlling operations of said component units; determining the category of the linkage state of said robot apparatus by comparing the result of the detection of the linkage state with the linkage states of different categories stored in a memory means; and drive-controlling said each component unit based on said operation control program selected according to the determined category from among the plurality of operation control programs. 7. A robot apparatus comprising: a plurality of component units connected to the body of said robot apparatus via HUBs; a linkage state detector for detecting the state of linkage of said component units in terms of tree structure data which defines said state of linkage; a memory for storing a plurality of types of tree structure data representing a plurality of categories which correspond to a plurality of linkage states of the robot, and storing also a plurality of opertaion control programs that correspond to said plurality of categories, for controlling operations of said component units; a category determination unit for determining the category of the linkage state of said robot apparatus by comparing the result of the detection of the linkage state performed by said linkage state detector with the linkage states of different categories stored in said memory; and a control unit for controlling operations of said plurality of component units based on said operation control program selected according to the category determined by said determination unit from among the plurality of operation control programs stored in said memory. 8. The robot apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said tree structure data includes branching information of said component units. 9. The robot apparatus according to claim 7, wherein: said memory unit stores multiple programs to generate basic operations in every category; and said category determination unit forms a control signal for drive-controlling said each component unit based on the determined category said robot apparatus assembled belongs and a respective program stored in said memory. 10. The robot apparatus according to claim 7, comprising a gravity sensor for detecting the direction of gravity, and wherein: the configuration of said robot apparatus to be assembled is classified into multiple categories according to said linkage state of said each component unit and a posture of said robot apparatus at an initial setting; and said category determination unit determines which category said robot apparatus assembled belongs, based on the detection result of said gravity sensor and said linkage state of said each component unit for every category stored by said memory. 11. The robot apparatus according to claim 10, comprising setting unit for setting a posture of said robot apparatus assembled to an initial posture. 