A device for mechanically gripping, transporting, loading and unloading cylindrical containers of various sizes for attachment to a robotic arm. The containers may be bottles including drinking water bottles. The device includes a plurality of gripping mechanisms for gripping the containers. Support pins are also provided for supporting the rotational motion of full bottles. A system for efficiently removing empty containers from racks and simultaneously loading full containers is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for gripping, transporting and loading a container having side walls and a neck, the apparatus comprising: a pair of parallel rails spaced at a predetermined distance from one another; a plurality of gripper mechanisms, each gripper mechanism being affixed to one of said parallel rails; a plurality of support pins, each pin being attached to one of said rails; and each gripper mechanism having a plurality of fingers, and each said finger being capable of moving from an open position to a clamped position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: said pins projecting at a substantially normal angle from said rails. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a top plate, each said rail member being removably attached to said top plate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said rails are laterally adjustable. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a robot control system having an output, said output being electronically coupled to each said gripper mechanism. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: at least one gripper plate, said gripper plate attached to one of said rails; and a gripper mechanism attached to said gripper plate. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said plurality of support pins are attached to said gripper plate. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: each finger having a distal end and a clamp plate attached to each distal end; and a plurality of finger pads, each said finger pad being removably connected to one of each said finger clamp plates. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said finger pads are clamped between said finger clamp plates and a pad retainer. 10. A robotic end of an arm tool for an industrial robot, said robotic end-effector comprising: a plate capable of being coupled to the robot; a pair of rails mounted on said plate and arranged for laterally spaced relative movement; a plurality of gripper mechanisms, each gripper mechanism being attached to one of said rails; a plurality of support pins, each pin being attached to one of said rails; and each gripper mechanism having a plurality of fingers, said fingers capable of moving from an open position to a clamped position. 11. A robotic end of an arm tool for the transportation of a group of containers gripped by the fingers of claim 10, wherein said lateral spacing between said rails is adjustable. 12. A robotic end of arm tool for the transportation of a group of containers gripped by the fingers of claim 10, wherein said location of each said gripping mechanism is adjustable. 13. A system for gripping, transferring and loading containers from a pick-up position, said system comprising: a supply of full containers at said pickup position; a rack, said rack filled with empty containers; an industrial robot with an end-effector, said end-effector having a pair of rails spaced a predetermined distance from one another, a plurality of gripper mechanisms, each gripper mechanism being affixed to one of said rails, a plurality of support pins, each pin being attached to one of said rails, each gripper mechanism having a plurality of fingers, each said finger being capable of moving from an open position to a clamped position; and an unloading station adjacent to said pick-up position whereby empty containers are gripped by said end-effector, removed from said rack and transferred to said unloading station where full containers are substantially simultaneously gripped by said end-effector and transferred to said rack. 14. A method for unloading a first set of containers from a rack and loading a second set of containers into said rack, the method comprising the steps of: providing a robotic end of an arm tool having a pair of rails spaced at a predetermined distance from one another, a plurality of gripper mechanisms, each gripper mechanism being affixed to one of said rails, a plurality of support pins, each pin being affixed to one of said rails, each gripper mechanism having a plurality of fingers, said fingers being capable of moving from an open position to a clamped position; removing a first container from said first set of containers from said rack; transferring said first container to a drop-off station; substantially simultaneously releasing said first container at said drop off station while gripping a second container from said second set of containers at an adjacent pick-up station; and transporting said second container to said rack. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of: releasing said container from said second set of containers in said rack while simultaneously gripping another container from said first set of containers. 