Systems and methods are provided for performing robotically-assisted surgical procedures on a patient. In particular, a three-component surgical system is provided that includes a non-sterile drive and control component, a sterilizable end effector or surgical tool and an intermediate connector component that includes mechanical elements for coupling the surgical tool with the drive and control component and for transferring motion and electrical signals therebetween. The drive and control component is shielded from the sterile surgical site, the surgical tool is sterilizable and disposable and the intermediate connector is sterilizable and reusable. In this manner, the intermediate connector can be sterilized after a surgical procedure without damaging the motors or electrical connections within the drive and control component of the robotic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing a surgical procedure within a sterile field with a robotic surgical system comprising: covering portions of a manipulator arm assembly with a sterile drape to shield the arm assembly from the sterile field; releasably attaching a sterilizable adaptor to a distal end portion of the manipulator arm assembly through the sterile drape; releasably coupling a sterilizable surgical tool to the adaptor, wherein said releasably coupling action comprises inserting an elongate shaft of said tool through a cylindrical structure connected to said robotic surgical system, said cylindrical structure adapted to be at least partially inserted into a patient's body; and introducing the surgical tool through an aperture in a body wall of said patient to a target site within said patient. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said surgical tool is introduced into said patient by inserting said cylindrical structure with said tool already positioned therethrough into said aperture. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said surgical tool is introduced into said patient by inserting said cylindrical structure into said aperture, and then inserting said instrument into said aperture through said cylindrical structure. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said cylindrical structure is separable from said manipulator arm assembly. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said cylindrical structure is integral with said manipulator arm assembly. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said cylindrical structure comprises a cannula. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising exchanging said surgical tool for a second surgical tool to continue said surgical procedure while said cylindrical structure remains in place within said aperture during said tool exchange. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said surgical tool comprises a wrist connected to said elongate shaft and an end effector coupled to said wrist, said end effector having at least two degrees of freedom of movement relative to said elongate shaft. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said surgical tool comprises a wrist connected to said elongate shaft and an end effector coupled to said wrist, said end effector having at least two degrees of freedom of movement relative to said elongate shaft. 