A guide arrangement for minimizing incorrect emplacement of a tightening tool at a plastically deformable ear of a hose clamp which includes male guide profiles in the clamp adapted to cooperate with female guide profiles in the tightening tool to permit the installer to sense proper positioning of the tightening tool when the male guide profiles are in engagement with the female guide profiles in the tightening tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hose clamp, comprising clamping band means, a tightening device in said clamping band means in the form of a plastically deformable ear including outwardly extending leg portions interconnected by a bridging portion, and an arrangement to assure proper application of a tightening tool in the area of each connection between said clamping band means and said leg portions. 2. A hose clamp according to claim 1, wherein said arrangement includes guide profile means in said area which are of predetermined cross section recognizable by a tightening tool provided with complementary guide profile means. 3. A hose clamp according to claim 2, wherein said guide profile means are located in the center area of the clamping band means. 4. A hose clamp according to claim 2, wherein said guide profile means are cold-deformed, deep-drawn parts extending generally in the longitudinal direction of the clamping band means within each of said areas. 5. A hose clamp according to claim 4, wherein each deep-drawn part is in the form of an embossment. 6. A hose clamp according to claim 5, wherein said embossment is of approximately V-shape. 7. A hose clamp according to claim 2, wherein said guide profile means are formed directly in the clamping band means in the areas of the connection thereof to said leg portions. 8. A hose clamp of the open type according to claim 2, wherein said clamping band means has a clamping band portion intended to form an outer clamping band portion which includes the plastically deformable ear and a clamping band portion intended to form an inner clamping band portion adapted to be overlapped by said outer clamping band portion, and wherein the guide profile means include outwardly extending, pressed-out deep-drawn parts in at least one of the inner and outer clamping band portions extending generally in the longitudinal direction of the clamping band means. 9. A hose clamp according to claim 8, wherein the deep-drawn parts are provided in the inner clamping band portion. 10. A hose clamp according to claim 9, wherein said deep-drawn parts extend through slot-like openings in said outer clamping band portion. 11. A hose clamp according to claim 10, wherein the slot-like opening in the outer clamping band portion on the side of the leg portion opposite the free end of the outer clamping band portion has a length sufficient for the deep-drawn part to extend therethrough during plastic deformation of the ear to the maximum plastic deformation thereof. 12. A hose clamp according to claim 8, wherein said deep-drawn parts are provided only in the outer clamping band portion. 13. A hose clamp according to claim 8, wherein said deep-drawn parts are provided in both said inner and outer clamping band portions and are of such complementary shape that deep-drawn parts of the inner clamping band portion can extend from below into the deep-drawn parts of the outer clamping band portion. 14. A hose clamp according to claim 8, wherein said pressed-out parts are of at least part approximately V-shape in cross section. 15. An arrangement for assuring the proper application of a tightening tool having jaw-like members operable to engage in the areas of the connections of two leg portions of a plastically deformable ear with a clamping band means of a hose clamp, comprising guide means in said jaw-like members and in said areas of connections to indicate proper position of the tightening tool, said guide means including guide profile means in the jaw-like members and in the areas of the connections of said clamping band means with said leg portions, and said guide profile means being of substantially complementary shape. 16. An arrangement according to claim 15, wherein said guide profile means are of substantially complementary male and female shape to indicate proper position of said jaw-like members relative to said plastically deformable ear when said guide profile means are mutually aligned. 17. An arrangement according to claim 15, wherein the guide profile means in the clamping band means within the areas of said connections are located in the center area of the clamping band means. 18. An arrangement according to claim 15, wherein the guide profile means in the tightening tool are located in the end areas of the jaw-like members. 19. An arrangement according to claim 15, wherein said guide profile means are located directly in the parts of the clamping band means connected to the leg portions. 20. An arrangement according to claim 15, wherein said clamping band means has a clamping band portion intended to form an outer clamping band portion which includes the plastically deformable ear and a clamping band portion intended to form an inner clamping band portion adapted to be overlapped by said outer clamping band portion and operable to bridge the gap underneath the ear, and wherein said guide profile means extend outwardly of said outer clamping band portion. 21. An arrangement according to claim 20, wherein said guide profile means are formed in the inner clamping band portion and extend through slot-like openings in the outer clamping band portion within said areas. 22. An arrangement according to claim 20, wherein at least some of said guide profile means are provided in the outer clamping band portion. 23. An arrangement according to claim 22, wherein some of said guide profile means are also provided in the inner clamping band portion and are of such complementary shape that they can extend into the guide profile means of the outer clamping band portion from below. 24. An arrangement according to claim 15, wherein the male guide profile means in the hose clamp are ridge-like male parts projecting outwardly from the clamping band means and the guide profile means in the jaw-like members are notch-like female cutouts of substantially complementary shape to the male parts. 25. An arrangement according to claim 24, wherein said ridge-like parts and said notch-like parts are of approximately V-shaped cross section of different dimension as to height and depth thereof, respectively. 26. A guide arrangement for minimizing incorrect emplacement of a tightening tool at a plastically deformable ear of a clamp, comprising male guide profiles in the clamp adapted to cooperate with female guide profiles in the tightening tool to determine proper positioning of the tightening tool when the male guide profiles of the clamp are in engagement with the female guide profiles in the tightening tool. 27. A guide arrangement according to claim 26, wherein proper positioning of the tightening tool relative to the ear is adapted to be determined interactively by the installer. 28. A guide arrangement according to claim 26, wherein proper positioning of the tightening tool relative to the ear is determined by optical means comparing the position of the male guide profiles with a predetermined position of the tightening tool. 29. A guide arrangement according to claim 26, wherein the tightening tool is fixedly mounted on a robotic arm having optical means determining actual position of the male guide profiles, means comparing the actual position of the male guide profiles with a correct position of the robotic arm, and means for adjusting the robotic arm to achieve coincidence of the actual position with said correct position. 