A load port module is mounted adjacent a process tool for loading semiconductor wafers to the process tool and unloading them from the process tool. The module includes a mounting frame having a charging opening therein for entry into the process tool, a platform having an upper surface for supportively receiving a cassette containing the semiconductor wafers to be passed though the charging opening into the process tool, a selectively operable closure movable between a first position withdrawn from the charging opening allowing the passage therethrough of the semiconductor wafers and a second position overlying the charging opening preventing the passage therethrough of the semiconductor wafers, and a shroud movable between a retracted position fully exposing the platform and its associated cassette and an advanced position fully encompassing the platform and the cassette adjacent the process tool. The shroud serves as a barrier against the passage of particulate matter into the process tool. In one instance, the platform includes a tilt assembly for moving a cassette receiving cradle with the cassette thereon from the first location to a second location at the reception region into the process tool such that the plurality of wafers are then supported in a substantially level orientation. In another instance, the platform is movable in plane between a withdrawn position distant from the charging opening and an advanced position proximate the charging opening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for loading and unloading semiconductor wafers adjacent a process tool comprising: a platform having an upper surface for receiving thereon a cassette adapted to support therein a plurality of the semiconductor wafers to be passed though a charging opening in communication with the reception region of the process tool, the platform including a cassette cradle and a tilt assembly for moving the cassette cradle with the cassette thereon from a first location at which the semiconductor wafers are supported in a substantially upright orientation to a second location adjacent the reception region into the process tool such that the plurality of wafers are supported in a substantially level orientation; wherein the cassette cradle includes a base for initially receiving the cassette thereon, an integral back wall extending in a plane transverse to the base, and an arbor pivotally mounting the cassette cradle about an axis parallel to a line of intersection between the base and the back wall for moving the cassette between the first location and the second location whereat the cassette is supported on the back wall; a selectively operable closure movable between a first position withdrawn from the charging opening allowing the passage therethrough of the semiconductor wafers and a second position overlying the charging opening preventing the passage therethrough of the semiconductor wafers; a shroud movable between a retracted position fully exposing the platform and the cassette received thereon and an advanced position fully encompassing the platform and the cassette received thereon adjacent the process tool to serve as a barrier against the passage of particulate matter into the process tool; a cassette cradle crank interconnecting the cassette cradle and the arbor; and an actuating mechanism for rotating the cassette cradle crank about the axis of the arbor, the actuating mechanism including a rotary actuator, a drive link driven by the rotary actuator about a drive axis parallel to and spaced from the axis of the arbor, and a connecting link pivotally connected at opposed ends, respectively, to the cassette cradle crank at a position spaced from the arbor axis and to the drive link at a position spaced from the drive axis. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein the actuating mechanism is effective to move the cassette cradle through an arcuate sweep of 90.degree. between the first and second positions in response to rotation of the drive link through an arcuate sweep of 180.degree.. 3. A system as set forth in claim 1 including: a cassette down sensor responsive to arrival of the cassette cradle at the second location for terminating operation of the rotary actuator. 4. A system as set forth in claim 1 including; wherein the platform is movable in a plane between a withdrawn position distant from the charging opening and an advanced position proximate the charging opening. 5. A system as set forth in claim 4 including; an actuating mechanism for moving the platform between the withdrawn position and the advanced position. 6. A load port module adapted to be mounted adjacent a process tool for loading and unloading, respectively, semiconductor wafers to and from the process tool comprising: a mounting frame for attachment to the process tool and having a charging opening therein for entry into the process tool; a platform having an upper surface for receiving thereon a cassette adapted to support therein a plurality of the semiconductor wafers to be passed though the charging opening into the process tool, the platform including a cassette cradle and a tilt assembly for moving the cassette cradle with the cassette thereon from a first location at which the semiconductor wafers are supported in a substantially upright orientation to a second location at the reception region into the process tool such that the plurality of wafers are then supported in a substantially level orientation; wherein the cassette cradle includes a base for initially receiving the cassette thereon, an integral back wall extending in a plane transverse to the base, and an arbor pivotally mounting the cassette cradle about an axis parallel to a line of intersection between the base and the back wall for moving the cassette between the first location and the second location whereat the cassette is supported on the back wall; a selectively operable closure movable between a first position withdrawn from the charging opening allowing the passage therethrough of the semiconductor wafers and a second position overlying the charging opening preventing the passage therethrough of the semiconductor wafers; a shroud movable between a retracted position fully exposing the platform and the cassette received thereon and an advanced position fully encompassing the platform and the cassette received thereon adjacent the process tool to serve as a barrier against the passage of particulate matter into the process tool; a cassette cradle crank interconnecting the cassette cradle and the arbor; and an actuating mechanism for rotating the cassette cradle crank about the axis of the arbor, the actuating mechanism including a rotary actuator, a drive link driven by the rotary actuator about a drive axis parallel to and spaced from the axis of the arbor, and a connecting link pivotally connected at opposed ends, respectively, to the cassette cradle crank at a position spaced from the arbor axis and to the drive link at a position spaced from the drive axis. 7. A load port module as set forth in claim 6 wherein the actuating mechanism is effective to move the cassette cradle through an arcuate sweep of 90.degree. between the first and second positions in response to rotation of the drive link through an arcuate sweep of 180.degree.. 8. A load port module as set forth in claim 6 including; a cassette down sensor responsive to arrival of the cassette cradle at the second location for terminating operation of the rotary actuator. 9. A load port module as set forth in claim 6 wherein: the shroud is movable between a retracted position fully exposing the cassette cradle and an advanced position fully encompassing the cassette cradle. 10. A load port module as set forth in claim 6 including: a stage having opposed side walls and an integral end wall transverse to and extending between the side walls, the end wall being fixed on the mounting frame and the side walls extending away therefrom adjacent the charging opening; and the platform being movable on the stage in a plane between a withdrawn position distant from the charging opening and an advanced position proximate the charging opening. 11. A load port module as set forth in claim 10 including: a platform actuator mounted on the stage and having an actuator rod fixed to the platform at a location distant from the platform actuator for moving the platform between the withdrawn position distant from the charging opening and the advanced position proximate the charging opening. 12. A load port module as set forth in claim 6 wherein the platform is movable in a plane between a withdrawn position distant from the charging opening and an advanced position proximate the charging opening. 13. A load port module as set forth in claim 12 including: an actuating mechanism for moving the platform between the withdrawn position and the advanced position. 14. A load port module as set forth in claim 12 including: a stage fixed on the mounting frame and extending away therefrom adjacent the charging opening; wherein the stage has opposed side walls; and wherein the arbor has opposed ends mounted, respectively, in each of the opposed side walls. 15. A load port module as set forth in claim 6 including: a stage having opposed side walls fixed on the mounting frame and extending away therefrom adjacent the charging opening; and wherein the shroud includes: a pair of substantially parallel side quarter panels; an arcuate cover panel integral with and extending between the side quarter panels; and hinge means pivotally mounting the side quarter panels to the side walls of the stage adjacent the charging opening; the side quarter panels and the arcuate cover panel together defining a foremost rim which is substantially coplanar with the upper surface of the platform when the shroud is in the retracted position and which is proximate the mounting frame and surrounding the charging opening when the shroud is in the advanced position. 16. A load port module as set forth in claim 15 including: an actuator mechanism for moving the shroud between the retracted position and the advanced position. 17. A load port module as set forth in claim 15 wherein the side quarter panels and the arcuate cover panel together define an aft rim distant from the foremost rim and include an operating flange integral with one of the side quarter panels and extending away from the aft rim to an extreme edge; and including: a shroud actuator pivotally mounted on the stage with an actuator rod pivotally connected to the operating flange adjacent the extreme edge thereof; whereby operation of the shroud actuator effects movement of the shroud between the retracted and advanced positions. 18. A load port module as set forth in claim 15 including: a shroud enclosure fixed to the mounting frame and to the stage and including opposed side walls and a front wall, the side walls of the shroud enclosure being generally parallel to and spaced from the side quarter panels of the shroud and the front wall of the shroud enclosure being spaced from the arcuate cover panel when the shroud is in the retracted position. 19. A load port module as set forth in claim 6 including: an arm connected to the closure to move the closure between the first and second positions, the arm being movable in at least two different directions angled relative to each other to move the closure in the at least two different directions. 20. A load port module as set forth in claim 19 wherein the arm is rotatably connected to the frame. 21. A load port module as set forth in claim 19 wherein the arm is longitudinally movably connected to the frame. 22. A load port module as set forth in claim 19 wherein a first one of the directions comprises a generally horizontally outward direction away from the opening and a second one of the directions comprises a direction away from a horizontal path into and out of the opening. 23. A load port module as set forth in claim 19 wherein the second direction is a downward direction. 24. A load port module as set forth in claim 19 including: a first drive connected to the arm to move the arm in a first one of the directions and a second drive connected to the arm to move the arm in a second one of the directions. 25. A load port module as set forth in claim 24 wherein at least one of the drives is a rotary motion drive. 26. A load port module as set forth in claim 24 wherein at least one of the drives is a straight linear motion drive. 