A down hole tool and apparatus is described for logging and/or remedial operations in a wellbore in a hydrocarbon reservoir. The tool comprises an autonomous unit for measuring down hole conditions, preferably flow conditions. The autonomous unit comprises locomotion means for providing a motion along the wellbore; means for detecting the down hole conditions; and logic means for controlling the unit, the logic means being capable of making decisions based on at least two input parameters. It can be separably attached to a wireline unit connected to the surface or launched from the surface. The connection system between both units can be repeatedly operated under down hole conditions and preferably includes an active component for closing and/or breaking the connection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for performing operations in a well bore, said apparatus comprising: (a) an autonomous unit for performing a schedule of tasks in the well bore; (b) an on-board processing system; and (c) a power module for energizing said autonomous unit and said on-board processing system, said autonomous unit being adapted for untethered operation in the well bore. 2. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein: (a) said apparatus additionally comprised a sensor system for producing at least one signal representing a predetermined parameter and (b) said on-board processing system is connected to said sensor system to respond to the predetermined parameter. 3. Apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein: (a) said sensor system includes means for monitoring the operation of said autonomous unit and (b) said on-board processing system is adapted to reorder the schedule of tasks in response to signals from said monitoring means. 4. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said on-board processing system comprises: (a) a programmed digital computer having a control memory; (b) an input for-receiving signals from said autonomous unit; and (c) an output for conveying signals representing tasks to said autonomous unit. 5. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 adapted for use in a well bore characterized by a well bore casing wherein said autonomous unit includes transport means for displacing said apparatus along the well bore casing, said transport means comprising; (a) suspensions and (b) locomotion units on said suspensions responsive to said on-board processing system for engaging the well bore casing to displace and affix said autonomous unit along said well bore casing in response to said on-board processing system. 6. Apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said locomotion units include a plurality of caterpillar tracks. 7. Apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein said plurality of caterpillar tracks are arranged along the outer circumference of said autonomous unit. 8. Apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said plurality of caterpillar tracks (a) three in number and (b) separated by 120.degree.. 9. Apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said locomotion units include a plurality of wheels. 10. Apparatus as recited in claim 9 wherein said plurality of wheels are arranged along the outer circumference of said autonomous unit. 11. Apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein said plurality of wheels are: (a) three in number and (b) separated by 120.degree.. 12. Apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein said wheels are located at the front of said autonomous unit. 13. Apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein said locomotion units further comprise a plurality of caterpillar tracks. 14. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said autonomous unit is to perform a work function at a predetermined location within the well bore, said autonomous unit comprising: (a) mission specific equipment responsive to said on-board processing system and (b) fixing means responsive to said on-board processing system for fixing the position of said autonomous unit within the well bore during the operation of said mission specific equipment. 15. Apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said mission specific equipment is taken from the group consisting of a flowmeter, a resistivity meter, a logging tool, and a tool for remedial operation. 16. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 adapted for use with a wire located within the well bore and for use in a well bore characterized by a well bore casing, said autonomous unit comprising: (a) suspensions; (b) fixing means attached to said suspensions and responsive to said on-board processing system for fixing said autonomous unit along the well bore by engaging the well bore casing; and (c) locomotion units responsive to said on-board processing system for selectively engaging the well bore casing to produce relative displacement between said autonomous unit and the well bore casing. 17. Apparatus as recited in claim 16 wherein said fixing means includes: (a) a plurality of wheels and (b) a plurality of caterpillar tracks. 18. An apparatus for performing operations in a well bore, said apparatus comprising: (a) locomotion units for moving the apparatus within the well bore; (b) an autonomous unit for performing a schedule of tasks in the well bore; (c) an on-board processing-system; and (d) a power module for energizing said locomotion units, said autonomous unit, and said on-board processing system, said apparatus being adapted for untethered operation in the well bore. 19. Apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein said on-board processing system comprises: (a) a programmed digital computer having a control memory; (b) an input for receiving signals from at least one of said locomotion units and said autonomous unit; and (c) an output from conveying signals representing tasks to said locomotion units and said autonomous unit. 20. Apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein: (a) said apparatus additionally comprises a sensor system for producing at least one signal representing a predetermined parameter and (b) said on-board processing system is connected to said sensor system to respond to the predetermined parameter. 21. Apparatus as recited in claim 20 wherein: (a) said son or system includes means for monitoring the operation of at least one of said locomotion units and said autonomous unit and (b) said on-board processing system is adapted to reorder the schedule of tasks in response to signals from said monitoring means. 22. Apparatus as recited in claim 21 adapted for use in a well bore characterized by a well bore casing wherein: (a) said apparatus comprises suspensions and (b) said locomotion units on said suspensions responsive to said on-board processing system for engaging the well bore casing to displace and affix said autonomous unit along said well bore casing in response to said on board processing system. 23. Apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said locomotion units include a plurality of caterpillar tracks. 24. Apparatus as recited in claim 23 wherein said plurality of caterpillar tracks are arranged along the outer circumference of said autonomous unit. 25. Apparatus as recited in claim 24 wherein said plurality of caterpillar tracks are: (a) three in number and (b) separated by 120.degree.. 26. Apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said locomotion units include a plurality of wheels. 27. Apparatus as recited in claim 26 wherein said plurality of wheels are arranged along the outer circumference of said autonomous unit. 28. Apparatus as recited in claim 27 wherein said plurality of wheels are: (a) three in number and (b) separated by 120.degree.. 29. Apparatus as recited in claim 28 wherein said plurality of wheels are located at the front of said autonomous unit. 30. Apparatus as recited in claim 28 wherein said locomotion units further comprise a plurality of caterpillar tracks. 31. Apparatus as recited in claim 22 wherein said autonomous unit is to perform a work function at a predetermined location within the well bore, said autonomous unit comprising mission specific equipment responsive to said on-board processing system. 32. Apparatus as recited in claim 31 wherein said autonomous unit additionally comprises fixing means responsive to said on-board processing system for fixing the position of said autonomous unit within the well bore during the operation of said mission specific equipment. 33. Apparatus as recited in claim 31 wherein said mission specific equipment is taken from the group consisting of a flowmeter, a resistivity meter, a logging tool, and a tool for remedial operation. 34. An apparatus for performing operations in a well bore, said apparatus comprising: (a) locomotion units for moving the apparatus within the well bore; (b) an autonomous unit for performing a schedule of tasks in the well bore; (c) a sensor system for producing at least one signal representing a predetermined parameter, the sensor system including means for monitoring the operation of at least one of said locomotion units and said autonomous unit; (d) an on-board processing system comprising a programmed digital computer having a control memory, an input for receiving signals from at least one of said locomotion units and said autonomous unit, and an output from conveying signals representing tasks to said locomotion units and said autonomous unit, wherein said on-board processing system is connected to said sensor system to respond to the predetermined parameters and said on-board processing system is adapted to reorder the schedule of tasks in response to signals from monitoring means; (e) a power module for energizing said locomotion units, said autonomous unit, and said on-board processing system; and (f) suspensions and said locomotion units on said suspensions responsive to said on-board processing system for engaging the well bore casing to displace and affix said autonomous unit along said well bore casing in response to said on-board processing system, and wherein said apparatus is adapted for connection to a wire located within the well bore and for use in a well bore characterized by a well bore casing, said apparatus additionally comprising a wire management module comprising a probe adapted to engage a wireline unit. 35. Apparatus as recited in claim 34 wherein the external surface of said probe is a rack gear. 36. Apparatus as recited in claim 35 wherein the external surface of said probe is a circular rack gear. 37. An apparatus for performing operations in a well bore, able to make autonomous decisions, said apparatus comprising: (a) an operation module for performing logging, remedial, or other operations in the well bore; (b) a control system having an interface to said operation module enabling autonomous decisions; and (c) a power supply unit for said operation module and said control system, said apparatus being adapted for untethered operation in the well bore. 38. Apparatus as recited in claim 37 wherein: (a) said apparatus additionally comprises a sensor system for measuring well bore properties and (b) said control system is connected to said sensor system and is responsive to properties measured by said sensor system. 39. Apparatus as recited in claim 38 wherein said control system has the ability to control operation of said apparatus with reference to measurements made by said sensor system. 40. Apparatus as recited in claim 38 wherein said control system comprises: (a) a processing board and (b) a bus system with input circuits for acquired data and an output control circuit for said operation muscle. 41. Apparatus as recited in claim 37 wherein: (a) the well bore is characterized by a well bore casing and (b) said apparatus includes a vehicle unit providing mobility within the well bore casing, said vehicle unit comprising: (i) a main body and (ii) a locomotion unit mounted on said main body for engaging with the well bore casing, said locomotion unit being connected via control circuits with said control system. 42. Apparatus as recited in claim 41 wherein said locomotion unit comprises locomotion means selected from the group consisting of caterpillar tracks, wheels, a plurality of logs, a plurality of skids, and any combination thereof. 43. Apparatus as recited in claims 41 wherein said locomotion unit includes caterpillar tracks which, in use, undergo linear displacement relative to said main body. 44. Apparatus as recited in claim 41 wherein said locomotion unit includes wheels which, in use, undergo rotary displacement relative to said main body. 45. Apparatus as recited in claim 41 wherein said locomotion unit and said control system enable said apparatus to position itself at certain locations within the well bore. 46. Apparatus as recited in claim 41 wherein: (a) said locomotion unit and said control system enable said apparatus to position itself at certain locations within the well bore to perform operations at those locations and (b) said operation module comprises a tool to perform those operations. 47. Apparatus as recited in claim 46 wherein said tool is taken from the group consisting of sensing, logging, remedial operation, flow measurement, perforating, and cleaning tools. 48. An apparatus for performing operations in a well bore, able to make autonomous decisions, said apparatus comprising: (a) a locomotion unit providing mobility within the well bore; (b) an operation module for performing logging, remedial, or other operations in the well bore; (c) a control system having an interface to said locomotion unit and said operation module enabling autonomous decisions on operations and movements; and (d) a power supply unit for said locomotion unit, said operation module, and said control system, said apparatus being adapted for untethered operation in the well bore. 49. Apparatus an recited in claim 48 wherein said control system comprises: (a) a processing board and (b) a bus system with input circuits and an output control circuit for controlling said locomotion unit and said operation module. 50. Apparatus as recited in claim 48 wherein (a) said apparatus additionally comprises a sensor system for measuring well bore properties and (b) said control system is connected to said sensor system and is responsive to properties measured by said sensor system. 51. Apparatus as recited in claim 50 wherein said control system has the ability to control operation of at least one of said locomotion unit and said operation module with reference to collected measurements. 52. Apparatus as recited in claim 48 wherein; (a) the wall bore is characterized by a well bore, casing; (b) said apparatus comprises a main body; (c) said locomotion unit is mounted on said main body for engaging with the well bore casing; and (d) said locomotion unit is connected via control circuits with said control system. 53. Apparatus as recited in claim 52 wherein said locomotion unit is selected from the group consisting of caterpillar tracks, wheels, a plurality of legs, a plurality of skids, and any combination thereof. 54. Apparatus as recited in claim 52 wherein said locomotion unit includes caterpillar tracks which, in use, undergo linear displacement relative to said main body. 55. Apparatus as recited in claim 52 wherein said locomotion unit includes wheels which, in use, undergo rotary displacement relative to said main body. 56. Apparatus as recited in claim 52 wherein said locomotion unit and said control system enable said apparatus to position itself at certain locations within the well bore. 57. Apparatus as recited in claim 48 wherein: (a) said locomotion unit and said control system enable said apparatus to position itself at certain locations within the well bore to perform operations at those locations and (b) said operation module comprises a tool to perform those operations. 58. Apparatus as recited in claim 57 wherein said tool is taken from the group consisting of sensing, logging, remedial operation, flow measurement, perforating, and cleaning tools. 