The present invention relates to an assay apparatus for detecting a product in a sample. The assay apparatus comprises a fluid pathway with an input of the sample and an input for a reagent with a detectable moiety which transports the sample to a detecting means via a barrier arranged to prevent a product-reagent complex passage but allow passage of unbound reagent and sample. The apparatus also includes supply means for supplying a substance adapted to breakdown the complex into a detectable moiety which can flow through the barrier to the detecting means.
Claims We claim: 1. An assay method for detecting a product in a sample, said method comprising the steps of: a) feeding the sample and a reagent with a detectable moiety into a fluid pathway; b) allowing the sample and reagent to interact as they flow down the pathway, to form a mixture of the sample, the reagent and, when the product is present in the sample, a product-reagent complex, said mixture formed upstream of a barrier located within said fluid pathway and extending across a cross section thereof; c) flowing the mixture to said barrier, said barrier retains any product-reagent complexes formed in step b), but allows passage of uncomplexed sample and reagent therethrough; d) subsequently breaking down the retained complexes to release said detectable moiety for passage through the barrier; and e) detecting said released detectable moiety downstream of the barrier. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the complex is formed on a bead which is passed to waste after step d). 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein steps a) to c) are repeated for a series of separated aliquots flowing down the pathway, where in step b) each respective aliquot is directed into an incubation loop where the aliquot is isolated from the rest of the fluid pathway for a period in order for interaction of the reagent and any product in the sample to occur to form the complex. 4. The method according to claim 1, where in step c) the complex is held until the rest of the aliquot has flowed past the barrier and waste-valve means directs said rest to waste outlet, and then the waste-valve means switches to direct the detectable moiety released in step d) to the detector means. 5. The method according to claim 3, wherein there are a plurality of detection pathways downstream of the barrier, each aliquot being directed to a respective detection pathway for detecting any of the detection moiety, and the other detection pathways will be unused, undergoing a wash cycle, or analyzing a different aliquot, when the respective one detection pathway is in use. 