This invention pertains to a polishing apparatus for polishing a semiconductor wafer. The apparatus comprises a storage section that is capable of receiving a workpiece to be polished and a polished workpiece. The polishing unit that polishes the workpiece includes a primary polishing table and a secondary polishing table, wherein the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table is constructed to be arranged such that at least a portion of a surface of the workpiece being polished by the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table extends beyond an edge of the polishing surface of the secondary polishing table. Also provided is a film thickness measuring device, which measures the thickness of a film formed on a polished workpiece while the polished workpiece is held by a top ring above a pusher.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing unit for polishing a surface of a workpiece to form a polished workpiece; and a temporary storage station for receiving the polished workpiece, said temporary storage station comprising a spray nozzle for rinsing the polished workpiece. 2. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an additional spray nozzle, wherein said spray nozzle and said additional spray nozzle are to rinse both of top and bottom surfaces of the polished workpiece, respectively. 3. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a dry temporary storage station for receiving the workpiece prior to polishing the workpiece. 4. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a cleaning unit for cleaning the polished workpiece. 5. The polishing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a first robot for feeding the polished workpiece to said temporary storage station, and a second robot for removing the polished workpiece from said temporary storage station. 6. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing unit for polishing a surface of a workpiece to form a polished workpiece; and a temporary storage station for receiving the polished workpiece, said temporary storage station comprising a mechanism to keep the polished workpiece from being dried. 7. A polishing apparatus comprising: a polishing unit for polishing a surface of a workpiece; and a plurality of temporary storage stations for receiving workpieces which are to be processed or have been processed in said polishing unit, wherein said plurality of temporary storage stations are vertically arranged. 8. The polishing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein at least one of said plurality of temporary storage stations comprises a spray nozzle for rinsing a workpiece. 9. The polishing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said plurality of temporary storage stations comprise a dry station for receiving a workpiece to be polished and a wet station for receiving a polished workpiece. 10. The polishing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said plurality of temporary storage stations are provided at a position away from said polishing unit. 11. A method of polishing a wafer in a polishing apparatus, comprising: loading a cassette storing wafers to a loading/unloading unit of the polishing apparatus; delivering a wafer from said cassette to a temporary storage station; transferring said wafer from said temporary storage station to a pusher; moving a top ring over said pusher and then holding said wafer with said top ring; moving said top ring over a first polishing table and then polishing said wafer using a first solution; moving said top ring over a second polishing table and then polishing said wafer using a second solution; moving said top ring over said pusher and then releasing said wafer from said top ring to transfer said wafer to said pusher; cleaning and then drying said wafer; and returning said wafer to said cassette. 12. The method of polishing according to claim 11, further comprising delivering another wafer from said cassette to a temporary storage station while said wafer is being polished. 13. The method of polishing according to claim 12, further comprising transferring said another wafer from said temporary storage station to a pusher while said wafer is being polished. 14. The method of polishing according to claim 11, wherein said first solution and said second solution are different from each other. 15. The method of polishing according to claim 11, wherein said first and second polishing tables have respective polishing tools which are different from each other. 16. A polishing apparatus comprising: a turntable on which polishing of a workpiece is to be performed; and a top ring device supporting two top rings each for holding a workpiece, wherein said two top rings are capable of being raised or lowered independently of each other. 17. The polishing apparatus according to claim 16, wherein said top ring device comprises a vertical support shaft and a horizontally extending swing arm attached to said support shaft, with said two top rings attached to said swing arm. 18. The polishing apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising air cylinders for raising or lowering each of said two top rings, respectively. 19. A polishing apparatus comprising: a top ring for holding a workpiece; and a suction device provided in said top ring for holding the workpiece on a surface of said top ring by a vacuum during a waiting time; wherein the vacuum is to be released during a waiting time for a subsequent polishing process. 20. The polishing apparatus according to claim 19, wherein a backing film is to be provided between the workpiece and the surface of said top ring. 21. The polishing apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising another top ring, and during the waiting time a polishing process is to be conducted by said another top ring. 22. A workpiece holder for holding a workpiece while transferring the workpiece, comprising: a top ring for holding a workpiece; and a suction device provided in a surface of said top ring for holding the workpiece by a vacuum; wherein the vacuum is to be released during a waiting time. 23. The workpiece holder according to claim 22, wherein the waiting time is for a subsequent process of the workpiece. 24. The workpiece holder according to claim 22, wherein the vacuum is to be released when a predetermined period has passed during the waiting time. 