A cassette holder is positioned within cleaning equipment. The cleaning equipment includes a solution tank, at least one pipe positioned on an internal wall of the solution tank, and a cassette in which at least one semiconductor wafer is placed. The cassette holder has a loading plate in the solution tank for holding the cassette. Pluralities of guide blocks mounted on the loading plate prevent movement of the cassette. A side-frame is positioned at an end of the loading plate proximate to the pipe. The bottom of the loading plate has a plurality of neck feet, and each neck foot is covered by a first tube that enhances support strength of the neck foot. The cassette holder further includes at least one weight to overcome buoyancy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cassette holder positioned in cleaning equipment, the cleaning equipment comprising a solution tank and at least one cassette in which at least one semiconductor wafer is placed, the cassette holder comprising; a loading plate in the solution tank for holding the cassette: a plurality of guide blocks mounted on the loading plate to prevent movement of the cassette; and a plurality of neck feet mounted on the bottom of the loading plate, and a mid-portion of each neck foot having a smaller cross-sectional area than both of a top-portion and a bottom-portion of each neck foot; wherein each neck foot is covered by a first tube that enhances support strength of the neck foot. 2. The cassette holder of claim 1 wherein the cassette holder further comprises at least one weight to overcome buoyancy of the cassette holder. 3. The cassette holder of claim 1 wherein the cleaning equipment further comprises at least one pipe positioned on an internal wall of the solution tank, and the cassette holder further comprises a side-frame positioned at an end of the loading plate proximate to the pipe, the side-frame serving as a shield between the pipe and the cassette that prevents the pipe from pushing against the cassette. 4. The cassette holder of claim 3 wherein the side-frame mounted on the loading plate is designed for disassembly. 5. The cassette holder of claim 4 wherein the cassette holder further comprises two pillars positioned at the end of the loading plate, each pillar covered by a second tube, and the side-frame is mounted onto the second tubes so that the side-frame can be disassembled. 6. The cassette holder of claim 3 wherein the cassette holder further comprises two forked rods mounted on the loading plate, the forked rods propping the side-frame at a slanted angle for enhancing the horizontal support strength of the side-frame. 7. The cassette holder of claim 3 wherein the loading plate and the side-frame are both made of a material that is resistant to both heat and acid. 8. The cassette holder of claim 7 wherein the material is quartz or glass. 9. The cassette holder of claim 3 wherein the side-frame further comprises a horizontal rod that serves as a level index for the solution tank. 