Rapid characterization and screening of polymer samples to determine average molecular weight, molecular weight distribution and other properties is disclosed. Rapid flow characterization systems and methods, including liquid chromatography and flow-injection analysis systems and methods are preferably employed. High throughput, automated sampling systems and methods, high-temperature characterization systems and methods, and rapid, indirect calibration compositions and methods are also disclosed. The described methods, systems, and devices have primary applications in combinatorial polymer research and in industrial process control.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for targeted screening of a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising serially injecting four or more non-biological polymer samples into a mobile phase of a liquid chromatography system, determining whether the injected polymer samples comprise a polymer component within a predetermined molecular weight range, by separating at least one sample component of each of the four or more injected polymer samples from other sample components thereof in a column comprising a separation medium effective for targeted chromatographic separation that limits resolution to polymer molecules having molecular weights within the predetermined molecular weight range, detecting a property of the four or more non-biological polymer samples or of components thereof with a flow-though detector to identify and distinguish between the resolved portions and the unresolved portions of the samples, and screening at least one component of the resolved portions for a second property of interest with a second characterization system. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the chromatographic separation medium limits resolution to polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 10.sup.3 to about 10.sup.4. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the chromatographic separation medium limits resolution to polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 10.sup.4 to about 10.sup.5. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the chromatographic separation medium limits resolution to polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from ranging from about 10.sup.5 to about 10.sup.6. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media effective for capturing molecules having a molecular weight up to about 20,000, while passing polymer molecules having a molecular weight larger than about 20,000. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the separation medium comprises porous, stationary phase media effective for capturing and chromatographically separating polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 50,000 to about 2,000,000. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one sample component of each of the four or more injected polymer samples is separated from other sample components thereof in a series of two or more chromatographic columns, a first column comprising a separation medium effective for capturing molecules having a molecular weight up to about 20,000, while passing polymer molecules having a molecular weight larger than about 20,000 to a second column, the second column being effective for capturing and chromatographically separating polymer molecules having a molecular weight ranging from about 50,000 to about 2,000,000. 8. A method for targeted screening of a plurality of non-biological polymer samples, the method comprising serially injecting four or more non-biological polymer samples into a mobile phase of a liquid chromatography system, determining whether or not the injected polymer samples comprise a polymer component within a predetermined particle size range, by chromatographically separating at least one sample component of each of the four or more injected polymer samples from other sample components thereof in a chromatographic column comprising a separation medium effective for targeted chromatographic separation that limits resolution to polymer molecules having particle sizes within the predetermined particle size range, detecting a property of the four or more non-biological polymer samples or of components thereof with a flow-through detector to identify and distinguish between the resolved portions and the unresolved portions of the samples, and screening at least one component of the resolved portions for a second property of interest with a second characterization system. 9. The method of claims 1 or 8 wherein the separation medium comprises porous stationary-phase media for size-exclusion chromatography. 10. The method of claims 1 or 8 wherein the chromatographic column has an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.1 to about 1. 11. The apparatus of claims 1 or 8 wherein the chromatographic column has an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.3 to about 1. 12. The apparatus of claims 1 or 8 wherein the chromatographic column has an aspect ratio ranging from about 0.5 to about 1. 13. The method of claims 1 or 8 wherein the average sample throughput for the four or more samples is not more than about 10 minutes per sample. 14. The method of claims 1 or 8 wherein the second characterization system is a second liquid chromatography system and the step of screening a resolved portion comprises screening at least one component of the resolved portion for molecular weight or particle size. 