The present invention relates to an improved resistance weld-based gun assembly for use in an electric welding system without a need for plant-provided air and water-cooling circulation systems. In one aspect of the invention, a resistance-based force controller measures the resistance of a secondary circuit of the weld gun, the combined resistance of the secondary circuit in parallel with the circuit formed by the workpieces and opposing electrodes when sandwiched between the electrodes, and calculates the resistance of the workpieces. The measured resistance is compared to a predetermined resistance and the sandwiching force of the electrodes incrementally adjusted until the resistance of the workpieces is acceptable. The invention also relates to a closed loop coolant system having a coolant line, a coolant contained within the coolant line, a heat exchanger, and a mechanical coolant pump. One possible pump comprises an elastic bladder dependent upon the state change of the coolant. A second possible pump comprises a reciprocating extractor mechanically connected to the weld gun actuator. In yet another aspect of the invention, the welding system relies solely on electrode arm material for heat dissipation, the heat being conducted through the electrode arm material to an outer surface of the arm where the heat is dissipated through natural convection. To promote natural convection, a plurality of ribs with channels defined therebetween or openings extending through the arm itself increase the surface area and the rate of convection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An improved weld gun assembly for use in an electric welding system having a closed loop coolant system comprising: a coolant line; at least one check valve disposed within said coolant line; a highly conductive coolant contained within said coolant line; a heat source including an electrode and a transformer of said assembly; a heat exchanger connected to said heat source by means of said coolant line; and a mechanical, non-electrical coolant pump. 2. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 1, said coolant pump comprising a cylinder with a mechanically operated piston, said piston moving in said cylinder in response to changes in the welding electrode separation distance to circulate said coolant such that said coolant picks up heat from said heat source and releases at least a portion of said heat through said heat exchanger. 3. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said assembly includes a welding gun having at least one pivoting arm on which a welding electrode is mounted, and a mechanical linkage secured to said piston, a first end of said linkage pivotally secured to said pivoting arm and a second end pivotally secured to said piston. 4. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 3, wherein said pivoting arm pivots about a pivot point, an intermediate portion of said linkage pivotally secured to said pivot point. 5. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 2, wherein said closed loop system includes a first coolant pathway between one end of said cylinder and a second end of said cylinder, a first check valve permitting movement of said coolant from said second end to said first end when said piston moves from said first end to said second end of said cylinder. 6. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 5, wherein said closed loop system includes a second coolant pathway between said heat source and said first end of said cylinder and a third coolant pathway between said heat source and said heat exchanger. 7. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 6, wherein a second check valve is disposed in one of said second and third coolant pathways to only permit flow of said coolant only from said first end of said cylinder to said heat exchanger by way of said heat source. 8. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 7, wherein a fourth coolant pathway is disposed between said heat exchanger and said second end of said cylinder, a third check valve disposed in said fourth coolant pathway and only permitting flow of said coolant between said heat exchanger and said second end. 9. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 1, said assembly further comprising: a movable actuator, one end of said actuator being selectively movable between a rest position and an activation position, said closed loop system bypassing said heat source and said heat exchanger as said actuator moves from a rest position to an activation position. 10. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 1, wherein said coolant pump comprises an elastic bladder. 11. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 10, wherein a first check valve is disposed within said coolant line between said heat source and said bladder; and a second check valve disposed between said heat source and said heat exchanger within said coolant line, said expanding coolant flowing from said heat source through said first check valve to said bladder upon the addition of heat to said heat source and selectively to said heat exchanger. 12. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 11, wherein said bladder expands against a bias to accommodate increased volume from said expanding coolant, said first check valve selectively closing upon termination of the expansion of said coolant and said second valve selectively opening to re-supply coolant under force from said bladder as it returns to its original configuration. 13. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 12, wherein said coolant is vapor-like in an expanded heated state and fluid-like in a cooled state. 14. An improved weld gun assembly comprising: electrode arms, at least one of said arms including one of a plurality of ribs along an outer surface defining channels therebetween and an opening within said arm to increase the total outer surface area of said arm to improve heat dissipation through natural convection. 15. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 14, wherein said arm includes both said ribs and said channels, and said opening. 16. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 14, wherein each of said electrode arms have generally equal masses to provide thermal balancing. 17. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in 16, claim wherein said mass of each arm is maximized adjacent receptacles adapted to retain electrodes. 18. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 14, wherein said ribs and said opening extend vertically. 19. An improved weld gun assembly comprising opposing electrode arms, each of said arms including a plurality of generally vertically extending ribs along an outer surface defining channels therebetween to improve heat dissipation through natural convection, and wherein each of said electrode arms have generally equal masses to provide thermal balancing, said mass outer surface area being maximized adjacent receptacles adapted to retain mating electrodes. 20. An improved weld gun assembly relying solely on electrode arm material conduction and natural convection from an outer surface of said electrode arm to cool said gun assembly, said gun assembly maximizing electrode arm mass and outer surface area in a region adjacent receptacles adapted to retain mating electrodes. 21. An improved weld gun assembly for use in an electric welding system having a closed loop coolant system comprising: a coolant line; a highly conductive coolant contained within said coolant line; a high weld current heat source; a heat exchanger connected to said heat source by means of said coolant line; and a mechanical, non-electrical coolant pump, wherein a first check valve is disposed within said coolant line between said heat source and said coolant pump; and a second check valve disposed between said heat source and said heat exchanger within said coolant line, said coolant flowing from said heat source through said first check valve to said coolant pump upon the addition of heat to said heat source and selectively to said heat exchanger. 22. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 21, wherein said coolant pump comprises a cylinder with a mechanically operated piston, said piston moving in said cylinder upon operation of said weld gun assembly to circulate said coolant such that coolant picks up heat from said heat source and releases at least a portion of said heat through said heat exchanger. 23. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 21, wherein said assembly includes a welding gun having at least one pivoting arm, and a mechanical linkage secured to said piston, a first end of said linkage pivotally secured to said pivoting arm and a second end pivotally secured to said piston. 24. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 23, wherein said pivoting arm pivots about a pivot point, an intermediate portion of said linkage pivotally secured to said pivot point. 25. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 22, wherein said closed loop system includes a first coolant pathway between one end of said cylinder and a second end of said cylinder, the first check valve permitting movement of said coolant from said second end to said first end when said piston moves from said first end to said second end of said cylinder. 26. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 25, wherein said closed loop system includes a second coolant pathway between said heat source and said first end of said cylinder and a third coolant pathway between said heat source and said heat exchanger. 27. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 26, wherein the second check valve is disposed in one of said second and third coolant pathways to only permit flow of said coolant only from said first end of said cylinder to said heat exchanger by way of said heat source. 28. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 27, wherein a fourth coolant pathway is disposed between said heat exchanger and said second end of said cylinder, a third check valve disposed in said fourth coolant pathway and only permitting flow of said coolant between said heat exchanger and said second end. 29. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 21, said assembly further comprising: a movable actuator, one end of said actuator being selectively movable between a rest position and an activation position, said closed loop system bypassing said heat source and said heat exchanger as said actuator moves from a rest position to an activation position. 30. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 21, wherein said coolant pump comprises an elastic bladder. 31. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 30, wherein said bladder expands against a bias to accommodate increased volume from said expanding coolant, said first check valve selectively closing upon termination of the expansion of said coolant and said second valve selectively opening to re-supply coolant under force from said bladder as it returns to its original configuration. 32. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 31, wherein said heat source is one of an electrode and a transformer of said assembly. 33. An improved weld gun assembly as recited in claim 32 wherein said coolant is vapor-like in an expanded heated state and fluid-like in a cooled state. 