A doubly articulated module for attaching a first portion of a robotic assembly to a second portion of said assembly, said first portion being rotatable with respect to said second portion about a first axis substantially perpendicular to a first axis of the first portion and about a second axis substantially coaxial with said first axis. Preferably, the articulated module comprises servos. Several of the modules can be incorporated into arms, legs, torso, neck and head of a mannequin in order to animate as much of the mannequin as is required. Although the servos can be activated by directly wired controls or by remote radio-controlled devices, a preferred programmed system is provided for the computerized control of the modules so that the mannequin can be used for display or demonstration purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for creating choreographs for animating a mannequin, said method comprising the steps of: (a) running a graphical animation program of the desired action; (b) generating output in the program's proprietary format; (c) transforming said output into a standard ASCII file format; and (d) inputting the combined files from step (c) together with a file having mannequin specifications into a program that transforms the choreograph instructions into a compressed binary output file for operation by a run program. 2. A method for creating choreographs as created in accordance with claim 1, thereby animating the mannequin in a desired manner, which comprises: (a) inputting the compressed binary file of choreograph instructions from step (d) in claim 1 into a run program; (b) the run program output being to an interface; (c) the interface interfacing with pulse width modulation controller circuitry; (d) the pulse width modulation controller circuitry controlling the mannequin and causing it to execute the choreograph instruction; and (e) a power supply to supply power to the mannequin. 3. A method for creating choreographs as created in accordance with claim 2, thereby animating the mannequin in a desired manner, in which the interface is a serial interface. 4. A method for creating choreographs for animating a mannequin, said method comprising the steps of: (a) using a spreadsheet program to develop a choreograph; (b) outputting the choreograph in a spreadsheet file; (c) transforming the spreadsheet file into an ASCII input file; (d) inputting the file from step (c) together with a file having mannequin specifications into a program that transforms the choreograph instructions into a compressed binary output file for operation by a run program. 5. A method for creating choreographs as created in accordance with claim 4, thereby animating the mannequin in a desired manner, which comprises: (a) inputting the compressed binary file of choreograph instructions from step (d) in claim 4 into a run program; (b) the run program output being to an interface; (c) the interface interfacing with pulse width modulation controller circuitry; (d) the pulse width modulation controller circuitry controlling the mannequin and causing it to execute the choreograph instructions; and (e) a power supply to supply power to the mannequin. 6. A method for creating choreographs as created in accordance with claim 5, thereby animating the mannequin in a desired manner, in which the interface is a serial interface. 