A force feedback interface device including safety features. The interface device includes a sensor that senses the position of a user manipulatable object in a degree of freedom and provides a sensor signal indicating the position of the user manipulatable object to a host computer. An actuator of the device applies a force to the user manipulatable object in the degree of freedom. A safety switch of the interface device disables the actuator when the user is not using the interface device and enables the actuator when the user is using the device. A device is included in the interface device to execute a force ramping process when the safety switch enables the actuator, the force ramping process causing the force to be produced at a reduced magnitude and slowly increased to a desired magnitude over a period of time to avoid an abrupt application of initial force.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A force feedback interface device for safe use by a user, said interface device comprising: a sensor capable of sensing the position of a user manipulatable object along a degree of freedom and capable of providing a sensor signal indicating said position of said user manipulatable object to a host computer coupled to said interface device; an actuator capable of applying a force to said user manipulatable object along said degree of freedom; a safety switch coupled to said user manipulatable object and capable of disabling said actuator when said user is not using said interface device and for enabling said actuator when said user is using said interface device, wherein said force cannot be output by said actuator when said actuator is disabled; and a device coupled to said safety switch capable of executing a force ramping process when said safety switch enables said actuator, said force ramping process preventing said force from being applied to said user manipulatable object at a high initial magnitude, said force ramping process causing said force to be produced at a reduced magnitude and slowly increased to a desired magnitude over a period of time. 2. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said user manipulatable object includes a joystick. 3. An interface device as recited in claim 2 wherein said safety switch enables said actuator when more than a predetermined amount of weight is placed on said user object, wherein an amount of weight created by a user grasping said joystick is more than said predetermined amount of weight and enables said actuator. 4. An interface device as recited in claim 3 wherein said joystick includes a handle portion and a base portion, said handle portion being translatably coupled to said base portion. 5. An interface device as recited in claim 4 wherein said safety switch includes a contact on said handle portion and a contact on said base portion such that when said predetermined amount of weight is applied to said user object, said handle portion engages said base portion and said contacts engage to allow electrical current to flow therebetween. 6. An interface device as recited in claim 2 wherein said actuator is one of a plurality of actuators included in said interface device, wherein said safety switch is operative to enable and disable said plurality of actuators simultaneously. 7. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said device includes a local controller separate from said host computer, said local controller controlling said actuator to apply said force and executing said force ramping process. 8. An interface device as recited in claim 7 further comprising a illumination device provided on said interface device that is illuminated when said actuator is active to inform said user that the interface device is capable of producing forces. 9. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force ramping process is implemented using instructions stored in memory local to said interface device and separate from said host computer. 10. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said period of time is about 3 seconds. 11. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said force ramping process ramps up said magnitude of said force sensations from a zero magnitude to said desired magnitude, and wherein said desired magnitude is a previous magnitude of said force at a time when said safety switch previously disabled said actuator. 12. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said safety switch is an optical sensor positioned on said user manipulatable object that detects a presence of a hand of said user contacting said user manipulatable object, wherein said safety switch is closed when a detector of said switch is blocked from sensing light. 13. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said deadman safety switch includes a touch plate sensor including a plurality of contacts that prevents said actuators from applying said forces when said plurality of contacts are not simultaneously contacted by said user. 14. An interface device as recited in claim 1 wherein said device receives a dedicated life line signal that, when not detected, indicates that a communication link between said interface device and said host computer is disconnected. 15. A force feedback interface device for use with a host computer running a host software application, said interface device providing force sensations to said user that are correlated with events within said host software application, said interface device including a deadman safety switch, said interface device comprising: a user object for manipulation by a user in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an origin; a sensor capable of detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and producing a locative sensor signal, wherein a representation of said locative sensor signal is conveyed to said host computer, thereby allowing said host software application to update a process in response to manipulation of said user object; an actuator physically coupled to said user object, said actuator capable of applying forces of a normal magnitude upon said user object along said degree of freedom to produce said force sensations; a deadman switch capable of preventing said actuator from producing said force sensations when said user is not engaging said user object in a predetermined manner; and a device coupled to said deadman switch capable of executing a force ramping process when said deadman switch is engaged to prevent forces from being abruptly applied to said user object, said force ramping process causing said force sensations to be produced at a reduced magnitude and slowly increased to said normal magnitude over a period of time. 16. An interface device as recited in claim 15 wherein said device includes a local processor separate from said host computer, said local processor controlling said actuator to apply said force and executing said force ramping process, and wherein said force ramping process is implemented by instructions stored in memory local to said interface device and separate from said host computer, said memory being accessible by said local processor. 17. An interface device as recited in claim 15 wherein said force ramping process ramps up said magnitude of said force sensations from a zero magnitude to said normal magnitude. 18. A method for providing force feedback safely to a user using a force feedback interface device, the method comprising: enabling a sensing of a position of a user manipulatable object in a degree of freedom and a provision of a sensor signal indicating said position of said user manipulatable object to a host computer coupled to said interface device; enabling an application of a force to said user manipulatable object in said degree of freedom using an actuator; enabling a disabling of said actuator when said user is not using said interface device such that said actuator is not able to apply said force; enabling said actuator to apply said force when said user is using said interface device; and enabling a prevention of said force from being applied at a high initial magnitude to said user manipulatable object after said actuator has been enabled by slowly increasing a magnitude of said force to a desired full magnitude over a period of time. 19. A method as recited in claim 18 wherein said user is detected to be using said interface device when a safety switch detects that said user is contacting said user manipulatable object in a predetermined manner. 20. A method as recited in claim 19 wherein said safety switch is an optical sensor positioned on said user manipulatable object that detects a presence of a hand of said user contacting said user manipulatable object, wherein said safety switch is closed when a detector of said switch is blocked from sensing light. 21. A method as recited in claim 19 wherein said safety switch enables said actuator when more than a predetermined amount of weight is placed on said user object, wherein an amount of weight created by a user grasping said joystick is more than said predetermined amount of weight and enables said actuator. 22. A method as recited in claim 18 wherein a local controller separate from said host computer controls said actuator to apply said force and executes a force ramping process to slowly increase said magnitude of said force. 23. An interface device as recited in claim 22 wherein said controller stores a force profile including a set of force values in a memory local to said interface device, wherein said force values are output in sequence to said actuator to apply a force based on said force profile. 24. A method as recited in claim 18 wherein said period of time is about 3 seconds. 25. A method as recited in claim 18 wherein said magnitude of said force is increased from a zero magnitude to said desired full magnitude. 26. A force feedback interface device for use with a host computer running a software application, the interface device comprising: a user object for manipulation by a user in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an origin; a sensor capable of detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and producing a locative sensor signal, wherein a representation of said locative sensor signal is conveyed to said host computer across a communication bus, thereby allowing said software application to update a process in response to manipulation of said user object; an actuator physically coupled to said user object through a transmission, said actuator capable of applying forces upon said user object along said degree of freedom to produce a force sensation; a local processor separate from said host computer and electrically coupled to said actuator, said local processor capable of executing a local process, said local processor coupled to said actuator such that said actuator is capable of applying said forces in response to signals produced by said local processor, wherein said local process locally generates said force sensation by modulating a magnitude of said forces produced by said actuator over a period of time in response to commands received from said host computer across said communication bus, and wherein said local processor executes a safety ramping routine that prevents said forces from being abruptly restored when said safety switch is engaged by said user; and a deadman safety switch capable of preventing said actuator from applying force sensations when said user is not engaging said user object in approximately a predetermined manner, said dead-man safety switch being coupled to said local processor that locally monitors a state of said safety switch. 27. An interface device as recited in claim 26 wherein said safety ramping routine causes said forces to be slowly increased to full magnitude over a period of time. 28. A force feedback interface device for use with a host computer running a software application, the interface device comprising: a user object for manipulation by a user in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an origin; a sensor capable of detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and producing a locative sensor signal, wherein a representation of said locative sensor signal is conveyed to said host computer across a communication bus, thereby allowing said software application to update a process in response to manipulation of said user object; an actuator physically coupled to said user object through a transmission, said actuator capable of applying forces upon said user object along said degree of freedom to produce a force sensation; a local processor separate from said host computer and electrically coupled to said actuator, said local processor capable of executing a local process, said local processor coupled to said actuator such that said actuator is capable of applying said forces in response to signals produced by said local processor, wherein said local process locally generates said force sensation by modulating a magnitude of said forces produced by said actuator over a period of time in response to commands received from said host computer across said communication bus; a deadman safety switch capable of preventing said actuator from applying force sensations when said user is not engaging said user object in approximately a predetermined manner, said dead-man safety switch being coupled to said local processor that locally monitors a state of said safety switch; and a thermistor coupled to said actuator capable of sensing an operating temperature of said actuator and relaying said sensed temperature to said processor as an electrical signal. 29. An interface device as recited in claim 28 wherein said deadman safety switch is an optical sensor located on said user object that detects a presence of a hand of said user contacting said user object. 30. An interface device as recited in claim 29 wherein said deadman safety switch includes an emitter and a detector, and wherein said detector senses a level of infrared radiation emitted from said emitter. 31. An interface device as recited in claim 28 wherein said user object is a joystick. 32. An interface device as recited in claim 28 wherein said deadman safety switch includes a weight sensor, said weight sensor capable of detecting a predetermined amount of weight provided by said user on said user object, wherein when an amount of weight greater than said predetermined amount is sensed, said actuators are enabled to apply said forces, and when an amount of weight less than said predetermined amount is sensed, said acuators are prevented from applying said forces. 33. An interface device as recited in claim 28 wherein said deadman safety switch includes a touch plate sensor including a plurality of contacts that prevents said actuators from applying said forces when said plurality of contacts are not simultaneously contacted by said user. 34. A force feedback interface device for use with a host computer running a software application, the interface device comprising: a user object for manipulation by a user in at least one degree of freedom with respect to an origin; a sensor capable of detecting motion of said user object in said degree of freedom and producing a locative sensor signal, wherein a representation of said locative sensor signal is conveyed to said host computer across a communication bus, thereby allowing said software application to update a process in response to manipulation of said user object; an actuator physically coupled to said user object through a transmission, said actuator capable of applying forces upon said user object along said degree of freedom to produce a force sensation; a local processor separate from said host computer and electrically coupled to said actuator, said local processor capable of executing a local process, said local processor coupled to said actuator such that said actuator is capable of applying said forces in response to signals produced by said local processor, wherein said local process locally generates said force sensation by modulating a magnitude of said forces produced by said actuator over a period of time in response to commands received from said host computer across said communication bus; a deadman safety switch capable of preventing said actuator from applying force sensations when said user is not engaging said user object in approximately a predetermined manner, said dead-man safety switch being coupled to said local processor that locally monitors a state of said safety switch; and a power storage device capable of storing power received from a power source and supplying said stored power in conjunction with power from said power source to said actuator. 