In a method for rinsing and drying a semiconductor workpiece in a micro-environment, the workpiece is placed into a rinser/dryer housing. The rinser/dryer housing is rotated by a rotor motor. The rinser/dryer housing defines a substantially closed rinser/dryer chamber. Rinsing and drying fluids are distributed across at least one face of the semiconductor workpiece by the action of centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing. A fluid supply system is connected to sequentially supply a rinsing fluid followed by a drying fluid to the chamber as the housing is rotated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: inserting the workpiece between an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member used to provide a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece; and wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided into the rinser/dryer chamber via an inlet generally aligned with an axis of rotation of the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinsing fluid comprises DI water. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinsing fluid comprises IPA vapor and nitrogen. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided at a generally central portion of the rinser/dryer chamber. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinser/dryer chamber is substantially closed. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of removing at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids from the chamber via an outlet passing through a sidewall of the chamber. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided onto the workpiece through an inlet opening in an upper portion of the rinser/dryer chamber. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the rinsing and drying fluids is provided onto the workpiece through an inlet opening in a lower portion of the rinser/dryer chamber. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of providing the rinser/dryer chamber by moving upper and lower chamber members towards each other to form the rinser/dryer chamber. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the upper and lower chamber members are moved together to substantially enclose the workpiece. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the upper and lower chamber members are moved together to substantially enclose the workpiece. 12. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of connecting the upper chamber member to the lower chamber member, so that rotation of the upper chamber member also causes the lower chamber member to rotate with the upper chamber member. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the rinsing and drying fluids are introduced onto both an upper surface and a lower surface of the workpiece. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of collecting a rinsing or drying fluid from the upper surface of the workpiece and separately collecting a rinsing or drying fluid from the lower surface of the workpiece. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the workpiece is a generally circular semiconductor wafer. 16. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: inserting a workpiece between an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member; moving upper and lower chamber members relatively towards each other to form a rinser/dryer chamber; supporting the workpiece within the rinser/dryer chamber between upper supports attached to an upper interior chamber face of the upper chamber member and lower supports on the lower chamber member; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the upper supports maintain the workpiece spaced apart from the upper interior chamber face and wherein the lower chamber member includes a lower interior chamber face and the lower supports maintain the workpiece spaced apart from the lower interior chamber face. 18. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: inserting the workpiece between an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member; moving at least one of the upper and lower chamber member towards the other to form a rinser/dryer chamber with the upper and lower chamber members having flat upper and lower interior chamber faces, respectively, and with the upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece positioned parallel to the upper and lower interior chamber faces; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least on surface of the workpiece. 19. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: inserting a workpiece between an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member; bringing the upper and lower chamber members together to form a rinser/dryer chamber; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece; and moving the upper and lower chamber members vertically away from each other, and then unloading the workpiece. 20. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising the steps of: moving at least one of an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member toward the other to form a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece; supporting the workpiece within the rinser/dryer chamber between upper supports on the upper chamber member and lower supports on the lower chamber member; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the upper supports maintain the workpiece spaced apart from the upper interior chamber face and wherein the lower chamber member includes a lower interior chamber face and the lower supports maintain the workpiece spaced apart from the lower interior chamber face. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the rinser/dryer chamber generally conforms to the shape of the workpiece. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein the rinsing fluid comprises IPA vapor. 24. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of clamping the workpiece between the upper and lower supports. 25. The method of claim 20 further including the step of removing rinsing or drying fluid from the rinser/dryer chamber through an overflow passageway. 26. The method of claim 20 further including the step of removing rinsing or drying fluid from the chamber through an outlet adjacent to an edge of the workpiece. 27. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of inserting the workpiece between the upper and chamber members, before moving the upper and lower chamber members towards each other to form the rinser/dryer chamber. 28. The method of claim 20 wherein the rinsing and drying fluids are introduced onto both an upper surface and a lower surface of the workpiece. 29. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of collecting a rinsing or drying fluid from the upper surface of the workpiece and separately collecting a rinsing or drying fluid from the lower surface of the workpiece. 30. The method of claim 20 wherein the workpiece is a generally circular semiconductor wafer. 31. The method of claim 20 where the upper and lower chamber members have flat upper and lower interior chamber faces, respectively, with the upper and lower surfaces of the workpiece positioned parallel to the upper and lower interior chamber faces. 32. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step connecting the upper chamber member to the lower chamber member, so that rotation of the upper chamber member also cause the lower chamber member to rotate with the upper chamber member. 33. The method of claim 20 wherein the rinsing and drying fluids are introduced to an upper surface and to a lower surface of the workpiece. 34. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto both an upper surface and a lower surface of the workpiece. rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece; and collecting a rinsing or drying fluid from the upper surface of the workpiece and separately collecting a rinsing or drying fluid from the lower surface of the workpiece. 35. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising: moving first and second chamber members relatively towards each other to form a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece; connecting the first chamber member to the second chamber member, so that rotation of the first chamber member also causes the second chamber member to rotate with the first chamber member; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 36. A method for rinsing and drying a workpiece comprising; providing a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece; supporting an upper surface of the workpiece with upper supports; supporting a lower surface of the workpiece with lower supports; inserting the workpiece between an upper chamber member and a lower chamber member used to provide a rinser/dryer chamber around the workpiece; introducing a flow of rinsing fluid onto the workpiece; rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of rinsing fluid across at least one surface of the workpiece; providing a flow of drying fluid onto the workpiece after the rinsing fluid; and rotating the workpiece to generate centrifugal force to distribute the flow of drying fluid across the at least one surface of the workpiece. 