A proximity sensing assembly for sensing the proximity of a metallic workpiece to a work holding device includes Hall-effect sensor. The magnetic field generated by the magnet is altered when a metallic workpiece is in close proximity to a magnet. Due to an offset relationship between the sensor and the poles of the magnet, the polarity detected by the Hall-effect sensor is analogous to a reversal when a metallic workpiece is proximate the magnet rather than simply detecting a change in strength. Thus the polarity detected by the Hall-effect sensor sends an clearly defined signal indicating the presence or absence of a workpiece in the work holding device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A work holding device and proximity sensing assembly for sensing the proximity of a metallic workpiece to the work holding device, said assembly comprising: a gripper having a pair of gripper appendages movable relative to each other to hold a workpiece; a proximity sensor affixed to one said appendages for sensing the proximity of the workpiece; and said proximity sensor comprising a magnet and a Hall-effect sensor, wherein said Hall-effect sensor is positioned in an offset relationship to the poles of said magnet, with said magnet defining an axis extending between said poles, and said magnet defining a cross-sectional area in a plane perpendicular to said axis, with said Hall-effect sensor being positioned with its sensing plane perpendicular to said axis and offset of said area such that said sensor is not within said area. 2. An assembly as set forth in claim 1, wherein said assembly includes a controller for receiving signals from said Hall-effect sensor. 3. An assembly as set forth in claim 2, wherein said assembly includes a cable for connecting said Hall-effect sensor to said controller. 4. An assembly as set forth in claim 3, wherein said cable includes a coil for allowing said cable to stretch. 5. An assembly as set forth in claim 1, wherein said proximity sensor includes a transistor for amplifying output from said Hall-effect sensor. 6. An assembly as set forth in claim 1, wherein said magnet comprises a cylindrical magnet. 7. An assembly as set forth in claim 1, wherein said Hall-effect sensor is positioned axially between said poles. 8. An assembly as set forth in claim 7, wherein said Hall-effect sensor is positioned closer to one of said poles than to the other. 