The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a vacuum chamber, said vacuum chamber operable at a pressure between about 10 to about 760 torr; a gas distribution manifold, located within said vacuum chamber, for selectively introducing reaction gases into said vacuum chamber; a ceramic heater for holding a substrate, said ceramic heater capable of heating to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; and means for causing deposition of an insulating layer comprising phosphosilicate glass (PSG) on said substrate on said ceramic heater at a deposition temperature of at least about 500.degree. C. from a reaction of a process gas including phosphorus, silicon and oxygen introduced into said vacuum chamber from said gas distribution manifold with said vacuum chamber at said pressure between about 10 and about 760 torr. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a processor for controlling a source distribution system for introducing the first process gas to said gas distribution manifold, said ceramic heater, said vacuum system and said depositing means; and a memory coupled to said processor and storing a program for directing the operation of said system, said program including a first set of instructions to introduce said first process gas during a first time period to deposit said insulating film on said wafer. 3. The substrate processing system of claim 1 wherein the deposition temperature is below a reflow temperature of the PSG film. 4. The substrate processing system of claim 1 wherein the deposition temperature is at least about 600.degree. C. 5. The substrate processing system of claim 4 wherein the deposition temperature is at least about 650.degree. C. 6. The substrate processing system of claim 1 further comprising means for heating the ceramic heater to a temperature of at least a reflow temperature of the PSG film to reflow the PSG film on the substrate on the ceramic heater. 7. The substrate processing system of claim 6 further comprising means for terminating the introduction of the silicon, oxygen, and phosphorus into the vacuum chamber prior to heating the ceramic heater to reflow the PSG film. 8. The substrate processing system of claim 6 wherein the reflow temperature is about 750.degree. C. 9. A substrate processing system comprising: a vacuum chamber, said vacuum chamber operable at a pressure between about 10 to about 760 torr; a gas distribution manifold, located within said vacuum chamber, for selectively introducing reaction gases into said vacuum chamber; a ceramic heater for holding a substrate, said ceramic heater capable of heating to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; and means for causing deposition of and reflowing an insulating layer comprising phosphosilicate glass (PSG) on said substrate on said ceramic heater at a deposition temperature of at least about 750.degree. C. from a reaction of a process gas including phosphorus, silicon and, oxygen introduced into said vacuum chamber from said gas distribution manifold with said vacuum chamber at said pressure between about 10 and about 760 torr. 10. The substrate processing system of claim 9 wherein the insulating layer is deposited and reflowed substantially simultaneously. 11. The substrate processing system of claim 9 wherein the insulating layer is deposited and reflowed at different times. 12. The substrate processing system of claim 9 further comprising means for subjecting the insulating layer to a densification treatment. 13. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a gas delivery system configured to deliver process gases to said processing chamber; a ceramic heater for supporting a substrate, said ceramic heater capable of heating to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; a vacuum system configured to maintain a selected pressure within said processing chamber; a controller configured to control said gas delvery system, said heater, and said vacuum system; and a memory, coupled to said controller, comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of said substrate processing system, said computer-readable program including: a first set of computer instructions for controlling said ceramic heater to heat said substrate to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; a second set of computer instructions for controlling said vacuum system to maintain said chamber at a pressure of between about 10 and about 760 torr; and a third set of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to introduce said process gas including oxygen, silicon, and phosphorus into said processing chamber to deposit a phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film on said substrate on said heater at said temperature. 14. The substrate processing system of claim 13 wherein the deposition temperature is below a reflow temperature of the PSG film. 15. The substrate processing system of claim 13 wherein the deposition temperature is at least about 600.degree. C. 16. The substrate processing system of claim 15 wherein the deposition temperature is at least about 650.degree. C. 17. The substrate processing system of claim 13 wherein said computer-readable program further includes a fourth set of computer instructions for controlling said ceramic heater to heat said substrate to a temperature of at least a reflow temperature of PSG film to reflow said PSG film on said substrate on said ceramic heater. 18. The substrate processing system of claim 17 wherein said computer readable program further includes a fifth set of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to terminate the introduction of the silicon, oxygen, and phosphorus into the processing chamber prior to heating the ceramic heater to reflow the PSG film. 19. The substrate processing system of claim 17 wherein the reflow temperature is about 750.degree. C. 20. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a gas delivery system configured to deliver process gases to said processing chamber; a ceramic heater for supporting a substrate, said ceramic heater capable of heating to a temperature of at least about 500.degree. C.; a vacuum system configured to maintain a selected pressure within said processing chamber; a controller configured to control said gas delivery system, said heater, and said vacuum system; and a memory, coupled to said controller, comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of said substrate processing system, said computer-readable program including: a first set of computer instructions for controlling said ceramic heater to heat said substrate to a temperature of at least about 750.degree. C.; a second set of computer instructions for controlling said vacuum system to maintain said chamber at a pressure of between about 10 and about 760 torr; and a third set of computer instructions for controlling said gas delivery system to introduce said process gas including oxygen, silicon, and phosphorus into said processing chamber to deposit and reflow a phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film on said substrate on said heater at said temperature. 21. The substrate processing system of claim 20 wherein said third set of computer instructions control said gas delivery system to introduce said process gas including oxygen, silicon, and phosphorus into said processing chamber to substantially simultaneously deposit and reflow said phosphosilicate glass (PSG) film on said subtrate on said heater at said temperature. 