A control software system for generating and distributing motion media for operating a target motion device. The control software system generates the motion media based on a motion program generated at a content server. The control software system distributes the motion media to a client browser associated with the target motion device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of communicating motion data through a communications network, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a control software system, a content server, and a client browser to the communications network; storing a plurality of motion programs at the content server, where each motion program corresponds to a motion sequence; connecting to the client browser a target device capable of translating motion media into physical movement; selecting a selected motion program stored on the content server using the client browser, where the selected motion program corresponds to a desired motion sequence; transferring the selected motion program from the content server to the control software system; generating motion media at the control software system based on the selected motion program by generating motion packets based on the selected motion program; transferring the motion media from the control software system to the client browser by transferring motion packets to the client browser; transferring the motion media from the client browser to the target device; and operating the target device based on the motion media to create physical movement corresponding to the desired motion sequence. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: storing non-motion data at the content server; selecting selected non-motion data stored on the content server using the client browser, where the selected non-motion data corresponds to a desired non-motion task; transferring the selected non-motion data from the content server to the control software system; transferring the selected non-motion data from the control software system to the client browser; and playing the non-motion data to perform the desired non-motion task. 3. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: storing ratings rules associated with the client browser; and modifying the motion media based on the ratings rules. 4. A method as recited in claim 1, in which the motion program is independent of the target device and the step of generating the motion media further comprises the step of converting the motion program into the motion media based on characteristics of the target device. 5. A method as recited in claim 1, in which the motion program is created based on characteristics of the target device. 6. A method as recited in claim 1, in which the step of connecting to the client browser a target device capable of translating motion media into physical movement comprises the step of providing a target device further capable of playing non-motion data, the method further comprising the steps of: storing non-motion data at the content server; selecting selected non-motion data stored on the content server using the client browser, where the selected non-motion data corresponds to a desired non-motion task; transferring the selected non-motion data from the content server to the control software system; combining the selected non-motion data with the motion media at the control software system to obtain enhanced motion media; transferring the enhanced motion media from the client browser to the target device; and operating the target device based on the enhanced motion media to create physical movement corresponding to the desired motion sequence and to perform the desired non-motion task. 7. A method as recited in claim 1, in which the step of generating motion packets based on the selected motion program further comprises the step of generating, based on the desired motion sequence, motion frames comprising at least one motion packet. 8. A method of communicating motion data through a communications network, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a control software system, a content server, and a client browser to the communications network; storing a plurality of motion programs at the content server, where each motion program corresponds to a motion sequence; connecting to the client browser a target device capable of translating motion media into physical movement; selecting a selected motion program stored on the content server using the client browser, where the selected motion program corresponds to a desired motion sequence; transferring the selected motion program from the content server to the control software system; generating motion media at the control software system based on the selected motion program by generating motion packets based on the selected motion program, and combining the motion packets into a motion script corresponding to entire the motion media; and transferring the motion media from the control software system to the client browser; transferring the motion media from the client browser to the target device by transferring the motion script to the client browser; and operating the target device based on the motion media to create physical movement corresponding to the desired motion sequence. 9. A method as recited in claim 8, further comprising the steps of: storing non-motion data at the content server; selecting selected non-motion data stored on the content server using the client browser, where the selected non-motion data corresponds to a desired non-motion task; transferring the selected non-motion data from the content server to the control software system; transferring the selected non-motion data from the control software system to the client browser; and playing the non-motion data to perform the desired non-motion task. 10. A method as recited in claim 8, further comprising the steps of: storing ratings rules associated with the client browser; and modifying the motion media based on the ratings rules. 11. A method as recited in claim 8, in which the motion program is independent of the target device and the step of generating the motion media further comprises the step of converting the motion program into the motion media based on characteristics of the target device. 12. A method as recited in claim 8, in which the motion program is created based on characteristics of the target device. 13. A method as recited in claim 8, in which the step of connecting to the client browser a target device capable of translating motion media into physical movement comprises the step of providing the target device comprises further capable of playing non-motion data, the method further comprising the steps of: storing non-motion data at the content server; selecting selected non-motion data stored on the content server using the client browser, where the selected non-motion data corresponds to a desired non-motion task; transferring the selected non-motion data from the content server to the control software system; combining the selected non-motion data with the motion media at the control software system to obtain enhanced motion media; transferring the enhanced motion media from the client browser to the target device; and operating the target device based on the enhanced motion media to create physical movement corresponding to the desired motion sequence and to perform the desired non-motion task. 14. A method as recited in claim 8, in which the step of generating motion packets based on the selected motion program further comprises the step of generating, based on the desired motion sequence, motion frames comprising at least one motion packet. 