A substrate loader for a semiconductor substrate processing system that generally includes a wall having an exterior side with one or more apertures formed therethrough and a related method of loading a processing system. A door assembly is movably coupled to the wall in each of the apertures and is adapted to temporarily retain the substrate. A first portion of the door assembly substantially closes the aperture when the door assembly is in a first or closed position, and a second portion of the door assembly substantially closes the aperture when the door assembly is in a second or open position. A robot for transferring a substrate in a processing system is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A loader for exchanging substrates in a processing system comprising: a wall having an exterior side having one or more apertures formed therethrough; a door assembly movably coupled to the wall in each of the apertures, the door assembly adapted to temporarily retain the substrate; a first portion of the door assembly substantially closing the aperture when the door assembly is in a first position; and a second portion of the door assembly substantially closing the aperture when the door assembly is in a second position. 2. The loader of claim 1, wherein the first portion further comprises a wafer mapper having spaced apart sensors. 3. The loader of claim 1, wherein the first portion and the second portion are substantially perpendicular. 4. The loader of claim 1 further comprising: a substrate wetting system for maintaining the substrate in a wet condition. 5. The loader of claim 4, wherein the substrate wetting system further comprises: a plurality of nozzles disposed adjacent the door assembly. 6. The loader of claim 1 further comprising a sensor that provides a signal indicative of the first portion of the door assembly being disposed in the aperture. 7. The loader of claim 1, wherein the door assembly supports a wafer storage cassette containing multiple substrates. 8. The loader of claim 7 further comprising a substrate detection system including at least one sensor that provides a signal indicative of the cassette being disposed in the door assembly. 9. The loader of claim 8 further comprising a wafer mapper disposed on the first portion, the mapper having a plurality of sensors that provides signals indicative of the presence of individual substrates within the wafer storage cassette. 10. A loader for exchanging substrates in a processing system comprising: an exterior wall having one or more apertures formed therethrough; a loading robot coupled to a rail disposed substantially parallel to the wall; and a door assembly movably coupled to the wall in each of the apertures and adapted to temporarily retain the substrate, the door assembly having a first portion and a second portion, the second portion disposed in the aperture when the door assembly is in a open position. 11. The loader of claim 10, wherein the loading robot further comprises: a central body a shaft rotationally extending from the body; rotary actuator coupled to the shaft; an arm coupled at a proximate end to the shaft by the rotary actuator; and a gripper coupled to a distal end of the arm. 12. The loader of claim 10, wherein the second portion further comprises a locating tab. 13. The loader of claim 10, wherein the first portion and the second portion are substantially perpendicular. 14. The loader of claim 10 further comprising: a substrate wetting system for maintaining the substrate in a wet condition. 15. The loader of claim 14, wherein the substrate wetting system further comprises: a plurality of nozzles disposed adjacent the door assembly. 16. The loader of claim 10 further comprising a sensor that provides a signal indicative of the first portion of the door assembly being disposed in the aperture. 17. The loader of claim 10 further comprising a substrate detection system including at least one sensor that provides a signal indicative of the substrate being disposed in the door assembly. 18. The loader of claim 10, wherein the door assembly supports a wafer storage cassette containing multiple substrates. 19. The loader of claim 18 further comprising a wafer mapper disposed on the first portion, the mapper having a plurality of sensors that provides signals indicative of the presence of individual substrates within the wafer storage cassette. 20. The loader of claim 10, wherein the processing system is a chemical mechanical polisher. 