A computerized method/system is provided for planning motion of a robot within a free space confined by obstacles, from an initial position to a goal position. In executing the method/system, a plan is generated so that the robot can hold and maneuver a workpiece throughout a sequence of bending operations to be performed by a bending apparatus. A plurality of proposed movements to be made by the robot are proposed for an mth movement within a sequence of movements, and at least a portion of the robot and the obstacles that confine the free space are modeled. A determination is made as to whether a collision will occur between the robot and an obstacle for each proposed movement, and a plan is generated including the sequence of movements by choosing for each movement in the sequence of movements, a proposed movement that will not result in a collision and that will bring the robot closer to the goal position. In choosing proposed movements, an estimated cost associated with each proposed movement may be taken into account. The estimated cost may be based upon a euclidian distance to the goal position from the position of the robot after the particular proposed movement is made as the mth movement, and/or the estimated cost may be determined as a function of the robot travel time from an (m-1) th movement to the mth movement. Different methods are provided for performing fine motion planning and gross motion planning.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a computer having at least one processor and a memory, a method for planning motion of a robot within free space, restricted by obstacles, from an initial position to a goal position, the obstacles comprising components of a bending apparatus, the method comprising: proposing, for a movement within a sequence of movements, a plurality of proposed movements to be made by the robot; modeling at least a portion of the robot and the obstacles that restrict the free space; determining whether a collision will occur between the robot and an obstacle, for a proposed movement being executed as the movement within the sequence of movements; and generating a plan including the sequence of movements, by choosing, for each movement in the sequence of movements, a proposed movement that will not result in a collision and that will bring the robot closer to the goal position, the generating of a plan comprising planning a gross motion plan including movements of the robot in the free-space. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the robot comprises a robot gripper that holds and maneuvers a workpiece throughout a sequence of bending operations to be performed by the bending apparatus. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein: said gross motion planning comprises planning a plurality of free space gross motion solution paths that extend between a plurality of respective pairs of positions, Q.sub.i and Q.sub.g. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said gross motion planning comprises performing the steps of proposing, modeling, determining and generating, for each pair of positions Q.sub.i and Q.sub.g, the proposing step comprising proposing a set of movements within a maximal overlapping parallelpiped within the free space of the robot. 5. The method according to claim 2, further comprising: calculating whether a simple collision-free path can be determined; if a simple collision-free path can be determined then forming a plan including movements for traversing the simple collision-free path; and if a simple collision-free path cannot be determined then inhibiting operation of the steps of proposing, determining and generating. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the set of movements comprises: moving the robot in a first of three orthogonal directions to a position along the first orthogonal direction which corresponds to the goal position; moving said robot in a second of the three orthogonal directions to a position along the second orthogonal direction which corresponds to the goal position; moving said robot in a third of the three orthogonal directions to a position along the third orthogonal direction which corresponds to the goal position; moving the robot in order to adjust a pitch of a gripper of the robot; and moving said robot in order to adjust both pitch and yaw of the gripper of said robot. 7. The method according to claim 2, wherein the gross motion plan comprises movements of the robot from a loading position, where a workpiece is retrieved by the robot gripper, to a bending stage position of the bending apparatus. 8. The method according to claim 2, wherein the gross motion plan comprise movements of the robot for moving a workpiece held by the robot gripper from a first bending stage position to a second banding stage position of the bending apparatus. 9. The method according to claim 2, wherein the gross motion plan comprises movements of the robot for moving a workpiece held by the robot gripper from a final bending stage position of the bending apparatus to an unloading position. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein the modeling comprises modeling the workpiece held by the robot and the determining comprises determining whether a collision will occur between the workplace held by the robot and an obstacle for a proposed movement. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed movement, whereby the generating stop comprises generating a plan including the sequence of movements, by choosing, for each movement in the sequence of movements, a proposed movement that will not result in a collision, that will bring the robot closer to the goal position, and that has a lowest estimated cost. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the estimated cost for a particular proposed movement is based upon a Euclidian distance to the goal position from the position of the robot after the particular proposed movement is made. 13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the estimated cost for a particular proposed movement is based upon an estimated value indicative of the robot travel time to move from a position before a particular proposed movement to a position of the robot after the particular proposed movement. 14. The method according to claim 1, further comprising before the proposing, specifying a plurality of movements in configuration space for the movement in the sequence of movements, and identifying which ones of the specified plurality of movements are feasible by performing collision checking, the proposing comprising proposing movements from among the movements identified as feasible. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the specified plurality of movements specified for the movement in the sequence of movements comprises a plurality of movements in directions which collectively surround the position of the robot at the another movement in the sequence of movements. 16. The method according to claim 14, wherein the specified plurality of movements for movement in said sequence of movements comprises movements in a plurality of intelligent movement directions. 17. The method according to claim 16, the method planning motion of the robot in order to unload a malleable workpiece from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a downward movement of the robot causing the workpiece to move downward. 18. The method according to claim 16, said method planning motion of the robot in order to unload a malleable workpiece from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a downward movement of said robot causing said work-piece to be backed out of the bending apparatus. 19. The method according to claim 16, said method planning motion of the robot in order to unload a malleable workpiece from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a movement of the robot causing the workpiece to change orientation from an inclined position towards a horizontal position. 20. The method according to claim 16, said method planning motion of said robot in order to unload a malleable workpiece from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a movement of said robot causing the workpiece to be moved downward, to be moved backwards away from the bending apparatus, and to change orientation from an angled position towards a horizontal position. 21. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: forming an m-tree representation of a work space of the robot; and computing maximal overlapping rectangloids within the free space of said m-tree representation of the work space. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the m-tree representation is an octree representation. 23. The method according to claim 21, wherein said maximal overlapping rectangloids comprise maximal overlapping parallelpipeds. 24. The method according to claim 21, wherein the proposing step comprises proposing for the movement in said sequence of movements, a set of movements of the robot to locations that fall within a maximal overlapping rectangloid within which the robot in located immediately after another movement of the sequence of movements. 25. The method according to claim 24, wherein the set of movements comprises: translating the robot to any an of eight corners of a presently occupied maximal overlapping rectangloid; and moving the robot along any one of a plurality of predetermined directions which bring said robot to a position that corresponds to said goal position. 26. The method according to claim 24 wherein the set of movements comprises moving along one of a plurality of orthogonal directions only when such movement would bring the robot of an orthogonal position that corresponds to the goal position. 27. The method of claim 1, wherein the free space is a 3-D space environment, the plurality of proposed movements including a 3-D movement to be made by the robot. 28. In a computer having at least one processor and a memory, a method for planning motion of a robot within free space, restricted by obstacles, from an initial position to a goal position, said obstacles comprising components of a bending apparatus, said method comprising: proposing, for a movement within a sequence of movements, a plurality of proposed movements to be made by the robot; modeling at least a portion of the robot and the obstacles that restrict the free space; determining whether a collision will occur between the robot and an obstacle for a proposed movement being executed as said movement within said sequence of movements; and generating a plan including the sequence of movements, by choosing, for each movement in the sequence of movements, a proposed movement that will not result in a collision and that will bring the robot closer to the goal position, the generating of a plan comprising planning a fine motion plan including movements of the robot to and from the bending apparatus. 29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the robot comprises a robot gripper for holding and maneuvering a workpiece throughout a sequence of bending operations to be performed by the bending apparatus. 30. The method according to claim 29, wherein: the fine motion planning comprises planning a plurality of free space fine motion solution paths that extend between a plurality of respective pairs of positions, q.sub.i and q.sub.g. 31. The method according to claim 30, wherein the fine motion planning comprises performing proposing, modeling, determining and generating, for each pair of positions q.sub.i and q.sub.g, the proposing comprising specifying a plurality of movements in configuration space for the movement in the sequence of movements and identifying which ones of the specified plurality of movements are feasible by performing collision checking. 32. The method according to claim 29, further comprising: calculating whether a simple collision-free path can be determined; if a simple collision-free path can be determined then forming a plan including movements for traversing the simple collision-free path; and if a simple collision-free path cannot be determined then inhibiting operation of said steps of proposing, determining and generating. 33. The method according to claim 29, wherein the fine motion plan comprises movements of the robot for loading a workpiece held by the robot gripper into a die space defined between a punch tool and die of the bending apparatus. 34. The method according to claim 29, wherein the fine motion plan comprises movements of the robot for unloading a workpiece held by the robot gripper from a die space defined between a punch tool and die of the bending apparatus. 35. The method of claim 29, wherein the modeling comprises modeling the workpiece held by the robot and the determining comprises determining whether a collision will occur between the workpiece held by the robot and an obstacle to a proposed movement. 36. The method according to claim 28, further comprising estimating a cost to be associated with each proposed movement, whereby the generating comprises generating a plan including the sequence of movements, by choosing, for each movement in the sequence of movements, a proposed movement that will not result in a collision, that will bring the robot closer to the goal position, and that has a lowest estimated cost. 37. The method according to claim 36, wherein the estimated cost for a particular proposed movement is based upon a Euclidian distance to the goal position from the position of the robot after the particular proposed movement is made. 38. The method according to claim 36, wherein the estimated coat for a particular proposed movement is based upon an estimated value indicative of the robot travel time to move from a position before a particular proposed movement to a position of the robot after the particular proposed movement. 39. The method according to claim 28, further comprising, before the proposing, specifying a plurality of movements in configuration space for the movement in the sequence of movements, and identifying which ones of the specified plurality of movements are feasible by performing collision checking, the proposing comprising proposing movements from among the movements identified as feasible. 40. The method according to claim 39, wherein the specified plurality of movements specified for the movement in the sequence of movements comprises a plurality of movements in directions which collectively surround the position of the robot at the said another movement in the sequence of movements. 41. The method according to claim 39, wherein the specified plurality of movements for movement in the sequence of movements comprises movements in a plurality of intelligent movement directions. 42. The method according to claim 41, the method planning motion of the robot in order to unload a malleable workpiece from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a downward movement of the robot causing the workpiece to move downward. 43. The method according to claim 41, the method for planning motion of the robot in order to unload a malleable workpiece from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a backward movement of the robot causing the workpiece to be backed out of the bending apparatus. 44. The method according to claim 41, said method for planning motion of the robot in order to unload a malleable workpiece from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a movement of the robot causing the workplace to change orientation from an inclined position towards a horizontal position. 45. The method according to claim 44, said method for planning motion of the robot in order to unload a malleable workplace from a tooling punch of the bending apparatus after completion of a bend, the intelligent directions comprising a movement of the robot causing the workpiece to be moved downward, to be moved backward away from the bending apparatus, and to change orientation from an angled position towards a horizontal position. 46. The method according to claim 28, further comprising: forming an m-tree representation of a work space of the robot; and computing maximal overlapping rectangloids within the free space of said m-tree representation of the work apace. 47. The method according to claim 46, wherein the m-tree representation is an octree representation. 48. The method according to claim 46, wherein the maximal overlapping rectangloids comprise maximal overlapping parallelpipeds. 49. The method according to claim 46, wherein the proposing step comprises proposing for the movement in the sequence of movements, a set of movements of the robot to locations that fall within a maximal overlapping rectangloid within which the robot is located immediately after another movement of the sequence of movements. 50. The method according to claim 49, wherein the set of movements comprises: translating the robot to any one of eight corners of a presently occupied maximal overlapping rectangloid; and moving the robot along any one of a plurality of predetermined directions which bring the robot to a position that corresponds to the goal position. 51. The method according to claim 49, wherein the set of movements comprises: moving the robot in a first of three orthogonal directions to a position along the first orthogonal direction which corresponds to the goal position; moving the robot in a second of the three orthogonal directions to a position along the second orthogonal direction which corresponds to the goal position; moving the robot in a third of the three orthogonal directions to a position along the third orthogonal direction which corresponds to the goal position; moving the robot in order to adjust a pitch of a gripper of the robot; and moving the robot in order to adjust both pitch and yaw of the gripper of the robot. 52. The method according to claim 49, wherein the set of movements comprises moving along one of a plurality of orthogonal directions only when such movement would bring the robot to an orthogonal position that corresponds to the goal position. 53. The method according to claim 28, wherein the robot comprises a robot gripper for holding a workpiece, and the fine motion plan comprises movements of the robot for loading and unloading the workpiece into a die space defined by a punch tool and die of the bending apparatus. 54. The method of claim 28, wherein the free space is a 3-D space environment, the plurality of proposed movements including a 3-D movement to be made by the robot. 