A unit dose medicine feeder for use in a packaging machine that can receive pills individually from a reservoir has a cylindrical housing having a base with an opening through which a pill may pass. There is a wheel-like component on the base that has a plurality of slots about its outer periphery. The slots are sized to receive a single pill in the form of a tablet, capsule or caplet and are oriented to have walls that are 10.degree. to 45.degree. from vertical. A gear mechanism is provided to connect the wheel-like component to a motor to rotate the wheel-like component. That rotation will sequentially align the slots with the opening in the base allowing a pill within the slot to pass from the slot through the opening. The orientation of the slots enables the wheel to receive a wider range of pill sizes without jamming and without dispensing more than one unit from a slot. Preferably there is a trap door in the medicine feeder that directs a dispensed pill directly to packaging material in a packaging machine.
Claims We claim: 1. A unit dose medicine feeder comprising: a. a housing having a base and a wall extending from the base and defining a reservoir for holding pills, the base having an outer periphery and an opening located along the outer periphery, the opening sized to allow at least one pill selected from the group consisting of tablets, capsules and caplets to pass through the opening; b. a wheel-like component having a top surface, a bottom surface which is adjacent the base of the cylindrical housing, an outer periphery and a plurality of elongated slots around the outer periphery, each slot oriented to have a center line that is parallel to the wall of the cylindrical housing and from 10.degree. to 45.degree. from vertical, the slots sized to receive a single pill selected from the group consisting of tablets, capsules and caplets, the slots being positioned so that as the wheel-like component is rotated the slots will sequentially become aligned with the opening in the base allowing a pill within the slot to pass from the slot through the opening, c. a coupling attached to the wheel-like component and configured for connection to a motor for rotating the wheel-like component relative to the base, and d. a retainer attached to the wall of the housing, the retainer positioned opposite from the opening in the base and adjacent the top of the wheel like member, the retainer sized to cover a slot in the wheel-like member when that slot is aligned with the opening in the base. 2. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 also comprising a chute attached to the base adjacent the opening in the base. 3. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 wherein the slots have a width of at least 0.25 inches. 4. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 also comprising a removable cover attached to the cylindrical housing at an end opposite the base. 5. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the top surface of the wheel-like member is conical. 6. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 wherein the coupling has position ring having one of slots and markings. 7. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 wherein the housing is cylindrical. 8. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 wherein the housing has a cylindrical portion and an upper reservoir portion having a sloped bottom and extending from the cylindrical portion. 9. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 also comprising a sensor positioned near the opening in the base and capable of detecting pills passing through the opening. 10. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 9 wherein the sensor is able to detect fragments passing through the opening. 11. The unit dose medicine feeder of claim 1 also comprising an imager positioned adjacent the feeder so that the imager can create an image of a pill positioned in or being dispensed from the feeder. 12. An improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of the type in which a medicine feeder containing pills is positioned above packaging material that is sealed around each dispensed pill, the improvement comprising the medicine feeder comprising: a. a housing having a base and a wall extending from the base defining a reservoir for holding pills, the base having an outer periphery and an opening located along the outer periphery, the opening sized to allow at least one pill selected from the group consisting of tablets, capsules and caplets to pass through the opening; b. a wheel-like component having a top surface, a bottom surface which is adjacent the base of the cylindrical housing an outer periphery and a plurality of elongated slots around the outer periphery, each slot oriented to have a center line that is parallel to the wall of the cylindrical housing and from 10.degree. to 45.degree. from vertical, the slots sized to receive a single pill selected from the group consisting of tablets, capsules and caplets, the slots being positioned so that as the wheel-like component is rotated the slots will sequentially become aligned with the opening in the base allowing a pill within the slot to pass from the slot through the opening; c. a coupled attached to the wheel-like component and configured for connection to a motor for rotating the wheel-like component relative to the base; and d. a retainer attached to the wall of the housing, the retainer positioned opposite from the opening in the base and adjacent the top of the wheel like member, the retainer sized to cover a slot in the wheel-like member when that slot is aligned with the opening in the base; and e. a motor connected to the coupling. 13. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 12 also comprising a carousel on which the medicine feeder is carried. 14. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 12 also comprising: a. a bar code label on the medicine feeder; and b. a bar code reader positioned on the packaging machine to read the bar code label. 15. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 12 wherein the packaging material is two strips of material sealed around each pill and cut into the unit dose packages. 16. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 12 wherein the coupling has a position ring having slots or markings and also comprising a sensor attached to the packaging machine adjacent the position ring for determining if the coupling is turning. 17. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 12 also comprising a sensor positioned near the opening in the base of the medicine feeder and capable of detecting pills passing through the opening. 18. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 17 wherein the sensor is able to detect fragments passing through the opening. 19. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 12 wherein there is no chute apart from the medicine feeder that directs pills from the machine feeder to the packaging material. 20. The improved unit dose medicine packaging machine of claim 12 also comprising an imager positioned adjacent the feeder so that the imager can create an image of a pill positioned in or being dispensed from the feeder. 