A controllable camera support including a pivoting arm adapted to be rotatably connected to a pivot point defining a first rotational axis. The pivoting arm also defines a radial axis. The camera support also includes a camera holder mounted on the pivoting arm. The camera holder is displaceable along the radial axis. The camera further includes motors coupled to the pivoting arm and to the camera holder. The motors are adapted to impart rotational and radial motions to the camera holder. The camera support also includes a control device for controlling the motors. The invention also covers a system further including a focal adjustable, rotational, tilting camera mounted on the camera holder. When a target that is focused by the camera becomes obstructed, the control device is adapted to move the camera to another position all the while focusing on the target.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A camera system comprising: a pivoting arm adapted to be rotatably connected to a pivot point defining a first rotational axis, said pivoting arm defining a radial axis; a camera holder mounted on said pivoting arm, said camera holder being displaceable along said radial axis; a focal adjustable, rotational, tilting camera mounted on said camera holder, said camera defining a second rotational axis parallel to said first rotational axis about which said camera may rotate by means of a camera rotation motor, said camera defining a third rotational axis perpendicular to said first rotational axis about which said camera may tilt by means of a camera tilting motor, said camera including a focal adjustment mechanism, said camera focusing on a target; motor means coupled to said pivoting arm and to said camera holder, said motor means adapted to impart rotational and radial motions to said camera holder; and control means for controlling said motor means, said camera rotation motor, said camera tilting motor, and said focal adjustment mechanism; wherein when the target focused by the camera becomes obstructed by an obstruction, said control means is adapted to move said camera to another position all the while focusing on said target, whereby as said camera moves, said target is always focused by said camera so that said camera can be moved to another position where the obstruction does not obstruct said camera. 2. The camera system of claim 1, wherein said pivoting arm comprises at least first and second portions, said first portion being connected to said pivot point, and said second portion being adapted to effect a relative movement with respect to said first portion along said radial axis. 3. The camera system according to claim 2, wherein said pivoting arm comprises at least one additional portion adapted to effect a relative movement with respect to said first and second portions, thereby forming a telescoping arm. 4. The camera system according to claim 2, wherein said first portion has first and second extremities, said second portion has first and second ends, said first portion being connected to said pivot point near said first extremity, said camera holder being mounted on said second portion near said second end thereof, thereby defining a maximum distance between said pivot point and said camera holder. 5. The camera system according to claim 4, wherein said pivoting arm is rotatably connected to said pivot point by means of a conical bearing or any suitable type of bearing. 6. The camera system according to claim 5, wherein said motor means comprises: a radial motor and an endless screw mechanism for sliding said first portion with respect to said second portion of the pivoting arm; and a rotational motor for rotating said pivoting arm. 7. The camera system according to claim 6, wherein the rotational motor comprises a slip clutch mechanism for disengaging said rotational motor from said pivoting arm. 8. The camera system according to claim 7, wherein the radial motor and endless screw mechanism are coupled to said slip clutch mechanism for disengaging said radial motor from said endless screw mechanism. 9. The camera system according to claim 6, further comprising limit switches connected to said radial and rotational motors, said limit switches adapted to shut down power to said motors before reaching a mechanical limit. 10. The camera system according to claim 6, wherein the motors are brush type DC servo-motors coupled to pulse width modulation (PWM) type amplifiers. 11. The camera system according to claim 1, wherein said control means comprises: sensors coupled to said pivoting arm for measuring or calculating said rotational and radial motions thereof; a computer means for receiving measured or calculated rotational and radial motions from said sensors; a user interface coupled to said computer means for generating positioning and/or calculated speed and/or trajectory commands; and an open and/or closed loop control system for receiving said positioning and/or calculated speed and/or trajectory commands from said user interface and sending motor commands to said motor means. 12. The camera system according to claim 11, wherein said closed loop control system is a PID control system. 13. The camera system according to claim 1, wherein said control means comprises: position sensors coupled to said pivoting arm for measuring rotational and radial positions thereof; a computer system for receiving measured rotational and radical positions from said sensors; a user interface coupled to said computer means for generating a position command signal; an feed forward controller for generating a first output signal in response to the position command signal; a differential controller for generating a second output signal in response to the position command signal and speed feedback signal; a proportional controller for generating a third output in response to the position command signal and position feedback signal; a treatment controller for generating said speed feedback signal in response to said output signals from the feed forward, differential, and proportional controllers; an integral controller for generating said position feedback signal in response to the position feedback signal, for controlling said motor means. 14. The camera system according to claim 1, wherein the pivoting arm is adapted to be coupled with a surgical lamp system, said surgical lamp system having a receiving point connectable to said pivot point. 15. The camera system according to claim 1, wherein the pivoting arm is adapted to be mounted to a ceiling of a room to be inspected. 