An electrostatic chuck 55 comprises an electrical connector 140 which is connected to the electrode 105 to conduct an electrical charge to the electrode 105. The electrical connector 140 comprises a refractory metal having a melting temperature of at least about 1500.degree. C., such as for example, tungsten, titanium, nickel, tantalum, molybdenum, or alloys thereof. Preferably, the electrical connector 140 is bonded to the electrode 105 by a metal having a softening temperature of less than about 600.degree. C., such as aluminum, indium, or low melting point alloys.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrostatic chuck for holding a substrate, the electrostatic chuck comprising: (a) a dielectric covering an electrode that is chargeable to electrostatically hold the substrate; and (b) an electrical connector connected to the electrode to conduct an electrical charge to the electrode, the electrical connector comprising a refractory metal having a melting temperature of at least about 1500.degree. C. 2. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the electrical connector comprises tungsten, titanium, nickel, tantalum, molybdenum or alloys thereof. 3. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the electrical connector is bonded to the electrode by a metal having a softening temperature of less than about 600.degree. C. 4. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 wherein the electrical connector is bonded to the electrode by aluminum, indium or low melting point alloys. 5. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 1 further comprising a base below the dielectric, the base comprising a composite of a plurality of materials and wherein the electrical connector extends through a hole in the base. 6. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 5 wherein a bond layer bonds the base to the dielectric. 7. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 6 wherein the base comprises porous ceramic infiltrated with metal, and wherein an electrical contact portion between the electrical connector and the electrode comprises the same metal. 8. An electrostatic chuck for holding a substrate, the electrostatic chuck comprising a dielectric covering an electrode that is chargeable to electrostatically hold the substrate, and an electrical connector electrically connected to the electrode by a metal in a gap between the electrode and the electrical connector, and the electrical connector extending through a bore in the dielectric, the bore comprising a first diameter smaller than a diameter of the electrical connector and a second diameter larger than the diameter of the electrical connector. 9. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 8 wherein the first diameter is sufficiently small to serve as a stop to the electrical connector thereby forming a gap between the electrode and the electrical connector. 10. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 8 wherein the metal comprises a softening temperature of less than about 600.degree. C. 11. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 8 wherein the metal comprises aluminum, indium or low melting point alloys. 12. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 8 wherein the electrical connector comprises a refractory metal having a melting temperature of at least about 1500.degree. C. 13. An electrostatic chuck according to claim 8 wherein the electrical connector comprises tungsten, titanium, nickel, tantalum, molybdenum or alloys thereof. 