A data storage library and method of operation are disclosed wherein access at least to part of at least one robotic mechanism from the data storage library's exterior is permitted. Access is accomplished through a service port in the library's housing. Access to the storage cells, and thus the data cartridges sitting therein, from the library's exterior is blocked. Blocking access to the storage cells may be provided by a geometry of the service port itself, or by a combination of a door and the robotic mechanism being serviced filling the opening created by the service port. For robotic mechanisms operating on a track, part of the track may be routed through the service port to bring the robotic mechanisms to the exterior of the library for maintenance purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage library comprising: a housing defining an exterior and an interior region; a robotic mechanism disposed in the interior region; a plurality of storage cells disposed in the interior region for storing data cartridges; a service port disposed through the housing for permitting access to at least part of the robotic mechanism from the exterior region; and a door disposed across the service port, the door having a closed position for disabling access to the interior region from the exterior region and an open position for enabling access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism from the exterior region, wherein the door opens automatically to enable access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism, and wherein access to the interior region is automatically disabled when access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism is enabled. 2. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein the robotic mechanism blocks access to the interior region to automatically disable access to the interior region from the exterior region when access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism is enabled. 3. The data storage library of claim 2 further comprising a track traversing the service port, wherein the robotic mechanism is operative to move along the track traversing the service port to permit maintenance of the robotic mechanism from the exterior region. 4. The data storage library of claim 3 further comprising a sensor for sensing a position of the robotic mechanism on the track and generating a signal for use in automatically opening the door when the robotic mechanism is proximate the door. 5. A data storage library comprising: a housing defining an exterior and an interior region; at least one robotic mechanism disposed in the interior region; a plurality storage cells disposed in the interior region for storing data cartridges, a service port disposed through the housing, the service port being operative to permit access to at least part of the at least one robotic mechanism from the exterior region; and a door disposed across the service port, wherein the door has a closed position for blocking access to the plurality of storage cells through the service port from the exterior region, and an open position for enabling access to the at least part of the at least one robotic mechanism from the exterior region, wherein one robotic mechanism of the at least one robotic mechanism blocks access to the plurality of storage cells through the service port from the exterior region when the door is in the open position and the one robotic mechanism is aligned with the service port. 6. The data storage library of claim 5 further comprising a track traversing the service port, wherein the at least one robotic mechanism is operative to move along the track traversing the service port to permit maintenance of the at least one robotic mechanism in the exterior region. 7. The data storage library of claim 5 wherein the at least one robotic mechanism includes a first robotic mechanism and at least one other robotic mechanism, and wherein the first robotic mechanism blocks access to the at least one other robotic mechanism through the service port from the exterior region while the first robotic mechanism is aligned with the service port. 8. A data storage method comprising: providing a housing defining an exterior and an interior region; providing a robotic mechanism disposed in the interior region; providing a plurality of storage cells disposed in the interior region for storing data cartridges; providing a service port disposed through the housing for permitting access to at least part of the robotic mechanism from the exterior region; and providing a door disposed across the service port, the door having a closed position for disabling access to the interior region from the exterior region and an open position for enabling access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism from the exterior region, wherein the door opens automatically to enable access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism, and wherein access to the interior region is automatically disabled when access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism is enabled. 9. The data storage method of claim 8 wherein the robotic mechanism blocks access to the interior region to automatically disable access to the interior region from the exterior region when access to the at least part of the robotic mechanism is enabled. 10. The data storage method of claim 9 further comprising providing a track traversing the service port, wherein the robotic mechanism is operative to move along the track traversing the service port to permit service of the robotic mechanism from the exterior region. 11. The data storage library of claim 10 further comprising providing a sensor for sensing a position of the robotic mechanism on the track and generating a signal for use in automatically opening the door when the robotic mechanism is proximate the door. 