The invention provides robotic surgical systems which allow selectable independent repositioning of an input handle of a master controller and/or a surgical end effector without corresponding movement of the other. In some embodiments, independent repositioning is limited to translational degrees of freedom. In other embodiments, the system provides an input device adjacent a manipulator supporting the surgical instrument so that an assistant can reposition the instrument at the patient's side.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: a master controller with an input handle movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; a robotic manipulator assembly including a surgical end effector movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; a control system coupling the master controller to the manipulator assembly, the control system having first and second modes, the control system in the first mode configured to effect corresponding movement of the end effector in response to movement of the handle, the control system configured to allow independent repositioning of the handle or the end effector in at least one of the degrees of freedom and to inhibit independent repositioning in at least one of the other degrees of freedom when the control system is in the second mode. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to allow manual independent translational repositioning of the handle without corresponding translational movement of the end effector in at least one translational degree of freedom when the control system is in the second mode. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 2, wherein the control system is configured to inhibit independent repositioning of the handle in at least one rotational degree of freedom when the control system is in the second mode. 4. The robotic surgical system of claim 3, wherein the control system is configured to change between the first mode and the second mode in response to a first signal, wherein the control system is configured to change between the second mode and the first mode in response to a second signal, and wherein the control system is configured to effect rotational movement of the handle so as to inhibit independent rotational repositioning of the handle when the control system is not in the first mode. 5. The robotic surgical system of claim 3, wherein the control system in the second mode inhibits independent repositioning of the handle in a plurality of rotational degrees of freedom in the second mode and allows independent repositioning of the handle in a plurality of translational degrees of freedom. 6. The robotic surgical system of claim 2, wherein the control system is configured to maintain the end effector at a fixed position while the control system is in the second mode. 7. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to allow manual independent repositioning of the end effector without corresponding movement of the handle in at least one translational degree of freedom when the control system is in the second mode. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 7, wherein the control system is configured to change between the first mode and the second mode in response to a first signal, wherein the control system is configured to change between the second mode and the first mode in response to a second signal, and wherein the control system is configured to effect rotational movement of the handle so as to inhibit independent rotational repositioning of the end effector when the control system is not in the first mode. 9. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the end effector is supported by a linkage having a plurality of joints, articulation of at least one of the joints effecting coupled translational and rotational movement of the end effector. 10. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein the handle is supported by a linkage having a plurality of joints, articulation of at least one of the joints effecting coupled translational and rotational movement of the handle. 11. A robotic surgical system comprising: a surgical manipulator system having an image capture device for capturing an image of a surgical site and at least one medical instrument having at least one rotational degree of freedom of movement and at least one translational degree of freedom of movement; a workstation having a display operatively connected to the image capture device to display the surgical site and at least one master control device operatively associated with the medical instrument to cause selective rotational and translational movement of the instrument in response to inputs to the master control device; and a selectively activatable repositioning system configured to interrupt the operative association between the master control device and the medical instrument so as to permit the master control device to be repositioned in the at least one translational degree of freedom of movement relative to the medical instrument while the medical instrument is caused to remain in a stationary position and, to reestablish the operative association after the master control device has been repositioned, wherein the repositioning system moves the master control device prior to reestablishing the operative association so as to inhibit repositioning of the master control device in the at least one rotational degree of freedom. 12. A robotic surgical system comprising: a master controller movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; a surgical instrument movable in a plurality of degrees of freedom; and a control system coupling the master controller to the surgical instrument, the control system having a first mode and a second mode; wherein the control system in the first mode is configured to effect movement of the surgical instrument in response to movement of the master controller, and wherein the control system in the second mode is configured to allow repositioning of one of the master controller and surgical instrument in at least one degree of freedom and inhibit repositioning in at least one of the other degrees of freedom while substantially maintaining the position of the other of the master controller and surgical instrument. 13. The robotic surgical system of claim 12 wherein the surgical instrument comprises an end effector. 14. The robotic surgical system of claim 12 wherein the surgical instrument comprises an image capture device. 15. The robotic surgical system claim 12 wherein the control system in the second mode is configured to inhibit repositioning of one of the master controller and surgical instrument in at least one rotational degree of freedom. 16. The robotic surgical system of claim 12 wherein the control system in the second mode is configured to realign the master controller and surgical instrument after repositioning is complete. 17. The robotic surgical system of claim 12 further comprising an input device coupled to the control system to toggle the control system between the first mode and second mode. 18. The robotic surgical system of claim 17 wherein the input device is disposed in close proximity to the surgical instrument. 19. The robotic surgical system of claim 17 wherein the input device is disposed in close proximity to the master controller. 