The present invention provides a method and apparatus for dispensing a small volume of a selected liquid, such as a biological sample or reagent, onto a substrate. The device includes a tube adapted to contain the liquid. An elongate fiber is disposed within the tube for axial movement therein between raised and lowered positions. Upon shifting or oscillating the fiber between its raised and lowered positions, a liquid spot can be formed at a selected position on the substrate. The device is readily adaptable for the production of micro-arrays having a great number of individual spots.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Valving apparatus for use in metering a selected amount of liquid onto the surface of a substrate, comprising a reservoir for holding such liquid, a tube extending from the reservoir and terminating at a lower end orifice adjacent a plane adapted to be occupied by the surface of such a substrate, a fiber disposed in said tube for axial oscillatory movement therein, with a lower portion of the fiber extending through the orifice, and the inner diameter of said tube and the diameter of said fiber being dimensioned to prevent fluid flow through said orifice in the absence of fiber oscillation, oscillating means operatively connected to said fiber for oscillating the same, including a control unit for determining the oscillation amplitude, frequency and time applied to said fiber, and thereby the amount of liquid allowed to pass through the tube orifice. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said oscillation means is adapted to produce an oscillation frequency of at least about 10 Hertz. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said oscillation means is adapted to produce an oscillation frequency of at least about 100 Hertz. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said oscillation means is adapted to produce an oscillation amplitude of at least about 10 .mu.m. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said oscillation means is adapted to produce an oscillation amplitude of at least about 100 .mu.m. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tube has a lower-end diameter of less than about 100 .mu.m, and the clearance between the fiber and tube at its lower end is less than about 25 .mu.m. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said fiber is adapted to contact such a substrate during at least a portion of its oscillation cycle. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said fiber is adapted to remain in contact with said substrate throughout its oscillation cycle. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, which further includes positioning means for positioning said tube and fiber with respect to the substrate, from one selected lateral position to another. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said positioning means is operatively connected to said tube, fiber and oscillating means. 11. Valving apparatus for use in metering a selected amount of liquid onto the surface of a substrate, comprising a reservoir for holding such liquid, a tube extending from the reservoir and terminating at a lower end orifice adjacent a plane adapted to be occupied by the surface of such a substrate, a fiber disposed in said tube for axial oscillatory movement therein, with a lower portion of the fiber extending through the orifice, and the inner diameter of said tube and the diameter of said fiber being dimensioned to prevent fluid flow through said orifice in the absence of fiber oscillation, and an oscillating unit operatively connected to said fiber for oscillating the same, including a control unit for determining the oscillation amplitude, frequency and time applied to said fiber, and thereby the amount of liquid allowed to pass through the tube orifice. 