The present invention provides methods of preparing large polynucleotides of arbitrary sequence and in a manner that will readily lend itself to automation. The present invention provides methods of preparing a polynucleotide having at least 200 nucleotides in either a 5' to 3' or 3' to 5' direction by ligating a plurality of oligonucleotides, the assembly of which, represents the nucleotide sequence of the desired polynucleotide.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing a polynucleotide having at least 200 nucleotides and a predetermined nucleotide sequence comprising the steps: a) providing a solid support; b) providing a plurality of oligonucleotides, wherein the combination of the nucleotide sequences of said oligonucleotides comprises the nucleotide sequence of said polynucleotide; c) contacting said solid support with the 3' terminus of a first oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to form a tethered oligonucleotide; d) ligating the 3' terminus of another oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to the 5' terminus of said tethered oligonucleotide, wherein said ligating is carried out in the presence of RNA ligase or ribozyme; e) phosphorylating the 5' terminus of said another oligonucleotide; and f) repeating steps d) and e) until said polynucleotide is prepared. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said solid support is selected from the group consisting of agarose, polyacrylamide, magnetic beads, polystyrene, polyacrylate, controlled-pore glass, hydroxyethylmethacrylate, polyamide, polyethylene, polyethyleneoxy, and polyethyleneoxy/polystyrene copolymer. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the 5' terminus of said first oligonucleotide is phosphorylated prior to contacting said solid support with said first oligonucleotide. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said phosphorylation is carried out with a phosphoramidite or kinase. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said 5' terminus of said tethered oligonucleotide is phosphorylated after contacting said solid support with said first oligonucleotide. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said phosphorylation is carried out with a phosphoramidite or kinase. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein prior to ligation of said tethered oligonucleotide to said another of said plurality of oligonucleotides, any tethered oligonucleotide with an unphosphorylated 5' terminus is capped. 8. A method of preparing a polynucleotide having at least 200 nucleotides and a predetermined nucleotide sequence comprising the steps: a) providing a solid support; b) providing a plurality of oligonucleotides, wherein the combination of the nucleotide sequences of said oligonucleotides comprises the nucleotide sequence of said polynucleotide; c) contacting said solid support with the 3' terminus of a first oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to form a tethered oligonucleotide; d) ligating the 3' terminus of another oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to the 5' terminus of said tethered oligonucleotide; and e) repeating step d) until said polynucleotide is prepared, wherein prior to ligation of said tethered oligonucleotide to said another of said plurality of oligonucleotides, any tethered oligonucleotide with an unphosphorylated 5' terminus is capped, and wherein said capping is carried out with an enzyme which oxidizes said 5'--OH terminus of said unphosphorylated tethered oligonucleotide. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein enzyme is a nucleoside oxidase. 10. A method of preparing a polynucleotide having at least 200 nucleotides and a predetermined nucleotide sequence comprising the steps: a) providing a solid support; b) providing a plurality of oligonucleotides, wherein the combination of the nucleotide sequences of said oligonucleotides comprises the nucleotide sequence of said polynucleotide; c) contacting said solid support with the 3' terminus of a first oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to form a tethered oligonucleotide; d) ligating the 3' terminus of another oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to the 5' terminus of said tethered oligonucleotide; and e) repeating step d) until said polynucleotide is prepared, wherein prior to ligation of said tethered oligonucleotide to said another of said plurality of oligonucleotides, any tethered oligonucleotide with an unphosphorylated 5' terminus is capped, and wherein said capping is carried out with an enzyme which acylates said 5'--OH terminus of said unphosphorylated tethered oligonucleotide. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said enzyme is lipase or subtilisin. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said RNA ligase is T4 RNA ligase or modified T4 RNA ligase. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the 5' terminus of said another of said plurality of oligonucleotides is phosphorylated prior to ligation to said tethered oligonucleotide. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the 5' terminus of said another of said plurality of oligonucleotides is not phosphorylated prior to ligation of said tethered oligonucleotide to said another of said plurality of oligonucleotides, and wherein after said ligation the 5' terminus of any of said tethered oligonucleotide that remains unligated is capped. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said capping is care out by forming a phosphamide or reaction with a blocking oligonucleotide. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said blocking oligonucleotide is a 5'deoxyoligonucleotide or an oligonucleotide comprising a 5' fluorescent label. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said polynucleotide is selected from the group consisting of a gene, plasmid, viroid, or a polynucleotide comprising an origin of replication. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of polynucleotides are simultaneously prepared on said solid support. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of polynucleotides are degenerate polynucleotides. 20. A method of preparing a polynucleotide having at least 200 nucleotides and a predetermined nucleotide sequence comprising the steps: a) providing a solid support; b) providing a plurality of oligonucleotides, wherein the combination of the nucleotide sequences of said oligonucleotides comprises the nucleotide sequence of said polynucleotide; c) contacting said solid support with the 5' terminus of a first oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to form a tethered oligonucleotide; d) ligating the 5' terminus of another oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides to the 3' terminus of said tethered oligonucleotide, wherein the 3' OH terminus of said another oligonucleotide is blocked by acylation; and e) repeating step d) until said polynucleotide is prepared. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein said solid support is selected from the group consisting of agarose, polyacrylamide, magnetic beads, polystyrene, polyacrylate, controlled-pore glass, hydroxyethylmethacrylate, polyamide, polyethylene, polyethyleneoxy, and polyethyleneoxy/polystyrene copolymer. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein said 5' terminus of said another oligonucleotide from said plurality of oligonucleotides is phosphorylated. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said phosphorylation is carried out with a phosphoramidite or kinase. 24. The method of claim 20 wherein said ligating step is carried out with a RNA ligase or ribozyme. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said RNA ligase is T4 RNA ligase or modified T4 RNA ligase. 26. The method of claim 20 wherein after said ligation of said another oligonucleotide to said tethered oligonucleotide, said 3' terminus of any unligated tethered oligonucleotide is capped. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said capping is carried out with an enzyme which acylates said 3'--OH terminus of said unligated tethered oligonucleotide. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said enzyme is a lipase or subtilisin. 29. The method of claim 26 wherein said capping is carried out with an enzyme which adds at least one dideoxy nucleotide to said 3' terminus of said unligated tethered oligonucleotide. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein said enzyme is terminal transferase. 31. The method of claim 20 wherein after ligation of said tethered oligonucleotide to said another oligonucleotide having a blocked 3' terminus, said blocked 3' terminus is deblocked. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein said deblocking of said blocked 3' terminus of said tethered oligonucleotide is carried out by using a subtilisin or a lipase. 33. The method of claim 20, wherein said polynucleotide is selected from the group consisting of a gene, plasmid, viroid, or a polynucleotide comprising an origin of replication. 34. The method of claim 20, wherein a plurality of polynucleotides are simultaneously prepared on said solid support. 35. The method of claim 20 wherein said plurality of polynucleotides are degenerate polynucleotides. 