A device to accommodate simple and efficient insertion of elongate articles, such as wires, cables or pipes, into clamps adjacent one another inside an inaccessible tube. A setting head having at least two parallel and adjacent receiving grooves receive the elongate articles and a guide means is adjustable to accommodate various sized tables.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for inserting elongate articles, such as cables or pipes, into clamps which are arranged inside a man-inaccessible tube, the device comprising: a frame capable of being supported on a tube inner wall movably in a longitudinal direction of the tube; a setting head arranged on the frame radially movably in relation to the longitudinal axis of the frame, the setting head having at least one receiving groove running at least approximately in the direction of the longitudinal axis and being open outward in a radial direction for receiving the articles; and a drive for moving the setting head in the radial direction, wherein the setting head has at least two parallel receiving grooves arranged next to one another, each for an article, and wherein a guide means for guiding the articles at least approximately parallel to one another in alignment with the receiving grooves is provided, the guide means being adjustable between a holding position for holding the articles and a release position for releasing the articles. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein one of the receiving grooves is arranged further outward in the radial direction than the other of the receiving grooves and in a setting element capable of being forced back in the radial direction. 3. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the setting element is capable of being forced back in the radial direction counter to a spring force. 4. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein at least one receiving groove is arranged on each side of the setting element, as seen in a circumferential direction. 5. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the setting head has two rows, spaced in a direction of the longitudinal axis, of the receiving grooves. 6. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the frame has a self-propelled conduit robot vehicle with a rotary means for rotating the setting head about the longitudinal axis. 7. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the guide means is arranged on the frame, in front of the setting head, as seen in a working direction for inserting the articles. 8. The device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the guide means has a friction brake preferably capable of being set individually for each article. 9. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein a drive for moving the setting head is in a main module capable of being placed onto the rotary means of the self-propelled conduit robot vehicle, and wherein the setting head and the guide means can be coupled to the main module in each case via at least one adapter. 10. The device as claimed in claim 9, wherein a pivoting drive for a support wheel is additionally accommodated in the main module. 11. The device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the support wheel can be pivoted inward and outward according to a diameter of the man-inaccessible tube. 12. The device as claimed in claim 9, wherein at least part of electronic components, pneumatic valves and/or hydraulic valves operating the device are accommodated in the main module. 13. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the guide means is assigned at least one guide lever which is adjustable between a holding position, in which the articles are held in the guide means, and a release position, in which the articles are released. 14. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the guide means comprises a rocker which is provided with guide elements and which is mounted pivotably on a basic body coupleable to the main module. 15. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rocker provided with guide elements is pivotable with respect to the basic body via at least one cylinder/piston unit. 16. The device as claimed in claim 6, wherein the gage of the self-propelled conduit robot vehicle can be set according to a diameter of the man-inaccessible tube. 17. A device for inserting elongate articles, such as cables or pipes, into clamps which are arranged inside a man-inaccessible tube, the device comprising: a frame capable of being supported on a tube inner wall movably in a longitudinal direction of the tube; a setting head arranged on the frame radially movably in relation to the longitudinal axis of the frame, the setting head having at least one receiving groove running at least approximately in the direction of the longitudinal axis and being open outward in a radial direction for receiving articles; and a drive for moving the setting head in the radial direction, wherein the setting head has at least two parallel receiving grooves arranged next to one another, each for an article, and wherein one of the receiving grooves is arranged further outward in the radial direction than the other receiving grooves and in a setting element capable of being forced back in the radial direction. 18. The device as claimed in claim 17, wherein the setting element is capable of being forced back in the radial direction counter to a spring force. 