An autonomous mobile robot system allocates mapping, localization, planning and control functions to at least one navigator robot and allocates task performance functions to one or more functional robots. The at least one navigator robot maps the work environment, localizes itself and the functional robots within the map, plans the tasks to be performed by the at least one functional robot, and controls and tracks the at least one functional robot during task performance. The at least one navigator robot performs substantially all calculations for mapping, localization, planning and control for both itself and the functional robots. In one implementation, the at least one navigator robot remains stationary while controlling and moving the at least one functional robot in order to simplify localization calculations. In one embodiment, the at least one navigator robot is equipped with sensors and sensor processing hardware required for these tasks, while the at least one functional robot is not equipped with sensors or hardware employed for these purposes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for autonomous, multi-robot operation within an environment comprising the following steps: (a) providing at least one navigator robot and at least one functional robot; (b) with the at least one navigator robot, creating a map of the environment; (c) with the at least one navigator robot, localizing the at least one navigator robot and the at least one functional robot within the map; (d) with the at least one navigator robot, planning tasks to be performed by the at least one functional robot; (e) with the at least one functional robot, performing the tasks planned by the at least one navigator robot; and (f) with the at least one navigator robot, controlling and tracking the at least one functional robot during task performance. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises creating a current dynamic map using the following substeps: obtaining sensor data from the immediate surroundings of the navigator robot; creating a temporary map from the sensor data obtained; incorporating the temporary map into a current dynamic map; moving the navigator robot to a new location; and repeating step (b) by obtaining sensor data at the new location. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein step (b) further comprises creating a static perimeter map by following and mapping the outer perimeter of the environment. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein in step (c), localizing the functional robot comprises tracking the functional robot using a visual system mounted on the navigator robot. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein in step (c), localizing the navigator robot comprises the following substeps: moving the navigator robot towards a new position; using dead reckoning and landmark recognition techniques to estimate the current position of the navigator robot; determining whether the current position is approximately equal to the new position and, if it is not, continuing to move towards the new position; if the current position is approximately equal to the new position, stopping the navigator robot and obtaining new sensor data, creating a temporary map from the new sensor data, using a localization algorithm to align the temporary map with a map of the environment, and incorporating information from the temporary map into the map of the environment. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein step (d) comprises at least one substep selected from the group comprising: gathering data on rooms and surfaces within the environment; determining what functional robots are available to perform tasks; determining what tasks need to be completed; matching the available functional robots to the tasks that need to be completed; and developing a task schedule. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein step (f) comprises the following substeps: commanding the functional robot to move into a proper position to begin task performance; tracking the functional robot as it moves toward the proper position; if the functional robot moves too far away to allow tracking, commanding the functional robot to stop and moving the navigator robot closer to the functional robot; when the functional robot reaches the proper position, commanding the functional robot to begin task performance; and tracking the functional robot during task performance. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the navigator robot remains stationary while tracking the movement and task performance of the functional robot. 9. A method of implementing an autonomous mobile platform system within an environment comprising the following steps: providing multiple mobile platforms; allocating mapping, localization, planning and control functions to a first set of the mobile platforms; allocating functional task performance functions to a second set of the mobile platforms; mapping the environment, localizing substantially all platforms within the environment and planning task performance with the first set of mobile platforms; performing the tasks with the second set of mobile platforms; and controlling and tracking the task performance by the second set of platforms with the first set of platforms. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the first set of platforms remain stationary while controlling and tracking task performance by second set of platforms. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the first set of platforms move to a new position using the second set of platforms as a landmark. 12. A system of autonomous robots comprising: at least one first mobile robot configured to performed one or more repetitive tasks within an area; and at least one second robot configured to direct overall movement of the at least one first robot in the area. 13. The system of claim 12 in which the at least one second robot is configured to map the area. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the at least second robot is configured to determine the location of the at least one first robot within the area. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the at least one second robot is configured to plan overall movement of the at least one first robot within the area. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the at least one second robot is configured to track overall movement of the at least one first robot within the area. 17. A method of performing a repetitive task within an area comprising the steps of: performing the repetitive task with at least one first mobile robot; and directing overall movement at the at least one first robot in the area with at least one second robot. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising mapping the area with the at least one second robot. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising determining the location of the at least one first robot using the at least one second robot. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising planning the overall movement of the at least one first robot in the area using the at least one second robot. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising tracking the overall movement of the at least one first robot in the area using the at least one second robot. 22. A system of autonomous, mobile robots operating within an environment and comprising: one or more functional mobile robot(s) that are responsible for performing functional tasks; one or more navigator mobile robot(s) that localize themselves and the functional robot(s) within the environment, plan the tasks to be performed by the functional robot(s), and control the functional robot(s) during task performance, wherein each navigator robot comprises: one or more sensors for gathering data from the environment; a controller for directing the operations of both the navigator and the functional robot(s); a memory for storing maps of the environment; and a transmitter for transmitting control signals to the functional robot(s); and wherein each navigator robot generates a dynamic map of the environment by obtaining sensor data from its immediate surroundings, creating a temporary map from the sensor data, incorporating the temporary map into the dynamic map, and moving to a new location to obtain new sensor data. 23. A system of autonomous, mobile robots operating within an environment and comprising: one or more functional mobile robot(s) that are responsible for performing functional tasks; one or more navigator mobile robot(s) that localize themselves and the functional robot(s) within the environment, plan the tasks to be performed by the functional robot(s), and control the functional robot(s) during task performance, wherein each navigator robot comprises: one or more sensors for gathering data from the environment; a controller for directing the operations of both the navigator and the functional robot(s); a memory for storing maps of the environment; and a transmitter for transmitting control signals to the functional robot(s); and wherein each navigator robot generates a static map of the environment by following and mapping the outer perimeter of the environment. 24. A system of autonomous, mobile robots operating within an environment and comprising: one or more functional mobile robot(s) that are responsible for performing functional tasks; one or more navigator mobile robot(s) that localize themselves and the functional robot(s) within the environment, plan the tasks to be performed by the functional robot(s), and control the functional robot(s) during task performance, wherein each navigator robot comprises: one or more sensors for gathering data from the environment; a controller for directing the operations of both the navigator and the functional robot(s); a memory for storing maps of the environment; and a transmitter for transmitting control signals to the functional robot(s); and wherein each navigator robot stores the tasks to be performed by the functional robot in the memory. 25. A system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the navigator robot plans the tasks to be performed by the functional robot(s) by determining what tasks need to be completed, matching the functional robot(s) to a particular task, and developing a task schedule. 26. A system of autonomous, mobile robots operating within an environment and comprising: one or more functional mobile robot(s) that are responsible for performing functional tasks; one or more navigator mobile robot(s) that localize themselves and the functional robot(s) within the environment, plan the tasks to be performed by the functional robot(s), and control the functional robot(s) during task performance; and a base station for assisting in task completion, tracking of functional robot(s) and recharging of the robots. 27. A system of autonomous, mobile robots operating within an environment and comprising: one or more functional mobile robot(s) that are responsible for performing functional tasks; one or more navigator mobile robot(s) that localize themselves and the functional robot(s) within the environment, plan the tasks to be performed by the functional robot(s), and control the functional robot(s) during task performance; and wherein computations associated with localization, planning and control are performed by a stationary computer and communicated to the navigator robot(s). 