A safety mount for a tool on robotic apparatus, for protection of the tool should it encounter an obstruction to movement by the apparatus. The mount includes a hollow housing having a first end, a second end and a central axis passing through the ends. The housing is attachable at its first end to the robotic apparatus. Electrical switches are mounted in the housing radially outward of the axis, each switch having an operating member facing toward the first end of the housing and being biased toward the first end to a position establishing a first circuit condition and movable to a pressed-down position establishing a second circuit condition. A presser head is mounted in the housing and is biased for pressing down the switch-operating members. The presser head has a stem extending generally on the axis out of the second end of the housing for attachment of a tool holder thereto. The tool acts on encountering an obstruction either to deflect the stem at an angle resulting in angular deflection of the presser head to release at least one switch-operating member or to move the stem inwardly with respect to the housing with resultant axial movement of the presser head away from the switch-operating members to release all of them, thereby establishing the first circuit condition as a safety signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A safety mount for a tool or other working instrumentality on robotic apparatus, for protection thereof should the tool or instrumentality encounter an obstruction to movement by the apparatus, said mount comprising a hollow housing having a first end and a second end and an axis extending longitudinally thereof passing through said ends, said housing being attachable at said first end to the robotic apparatus for robotic movement thereof, a plurality of electrical switches mounted in the housing radially outward of said axis, each having an operating member facing toward said first end of the housing and biased toward said first end to a position establishing a first circuit condition and movable to a pressed-down position establishing a second circuit condition, a presser head for the switches in the housing biased in the direction toward said second end for pressing down the switch-operating members, said presser head having a stem extending generally on said axis out of the second end of the housing for attachment thereto of a holder for said tool or instrumentality, said tool or instrumentality acting on encountering an obstruction either to deflect said stem at an angle to said axis with resultant angular deflection of said presser head releasing at least one switch-operating member or to move the stem inwardly with respect to the housing with resultant axial movement of the presser head away from said switch-operating members releasing all of them, thereby establishing said first circuit condition as a safety signal. 2. A safety mount as set forth in claim 1 wherein the operating member of each switch has a push button held in pushed-down position by said presser head establishing said second circuit condition, the button of at least one switch being released on said angular deflection of the presser head and the buttons of all the switches being released on said axial movement of the presser head away from the buttons. 3. A safety mount as set forth in claim 2 having a ring in the housing adjacent said second end of the housing, said ring having recesses therein spaced at intervals around said axis, each said recess having an open top toward said first end of the housing, and each switch comprising a switch case mounted in a respective recess with the push button thereof at the open top of the recess. 4. A safety mount as set forth in claim 3 wherein each said recess has an open bottom toward said second end of the housing, and each switch case has switch terminals extending down therefrom at the said open bottom of the respective recess. 5. A safety mount as set forth in claim 4 having wiring connecting the switch terminals below the ring. 6. A safety mount as set forth in claim 3 wherein the housing comprises an annular wall having an end wall at said second end with a central opening in the end wall for said stem, said ring being mounted in the housing adjacent said second end wall with an annular space therebetween. 7. A safety mount as set forth in claim 6 having wiring for said switches in said annular space, said second end wall having means terminating said wiring extending outward therefrom for connection of a cable for interconnection with the robotic apparatus. 8. A safety mount as set forth in claim 1 wherein the housing comprises an annular wall having an end wall at said first end, said end wall having a series of holes for receiving screws spaced at intervals around a circle inward of and adjacent said annular wall for attachment to the robotic apparatus, said annular wall having a series of slots extending longitudinally thereof for access to the holes. 9. A safety mount as set forth in claim 1 wherein the housing comprises an annular wall having an end wall at said first end, said end wall having a tubular guide extending inward therefrom on said axis, the bias on said presser head being applied by a coil compression spring surrounding said guide and reacting from said end wall on a pusher on the inner end of a rod slidable in said guide, the pusher engaging the presser head. 10. A safety mount for a tool or other working instrumentality on robotic apparatus, for protection thereof should the tool encounter an obstruction to movement by the apparatus, said mount comprising a hollow housing comprising an annular wall having a first end wall at one end and a second end wall at the other, said housing having an axis extending generally longitudinally centrally thereof, said housing being attachable at the first end wall to the robotic apparatus for robotic movement thereof, said first end wall having a tubular guide extending inward therefrom on said axis, said second end wall having a central opening, a ring mounted axially in said housing inside said second end wall, the opening of the ring being coaxial with the opening in the second end wall, a plurality of electrical switches secured to the ring at spaced intervals around the ring outward of the opening of the ring, each switch having an operating member on the side of the ring toward the first end wall biased in the direction toward the first end wall to a position establishing a first circuit condition and movable in the other direction against the bias to a second position establishing a second circuit condition, a presser head for the switches in the housing on said side of the ring engageable with the switch operating members for pressing them down to their said second position, said presser head having a stem extending generally on said axis through the openings in the ring and second end wall out of the housing for attachment thereto of a holder for said tool or other instrumentality, a rod slidable in said tubular guide, a pusher on the inner end of the rod engaging the presser head, and a coil compression spring surrounding the guide reacting from said first end wall on said pusher. 11. A safety mount as set forth in claim 10 wherein the operating member of each switch is an upwardly biased push button held in pushed-down position against said bias thereon by said presser head establishing said second circuit condition, the button of at least one switch being released on said angular deflection of the presser head and the buttons of all the switches being released on said axial movement of the presser head away from the buttons. 12. A safety mount as set forth in claim 11 wherein the ring has recesses therein spaced at intervals around said axis, each said recess having an open top toward said first end wall, each switch comprising a switch case mounted in a respective recess with the push button thereof at the open top of the recess. 13. A safety mount as set forth in claim 12 wherein each said recess has an open bottom toward said second end wall of the housing, and each switch case has switch terminals extending down therefrom at the said open bottom of the respective recess. 14. A safety mount as set forth in claim 13 having wiring in said housing below the ring interconnecting the switch terminals. 15. A safety mount as set forth in claim 10 wherein said first end wall has a series of holes for receiving screws spaced at intervals around a circle inward of and adjacent said annular wall for attachment to the robotic apparatus, said annular wall having a series of slots extending longitudinally thereof for access to the holes. 16. A safety mount as set forth in claim 14 wherein said ring is mounted in the housing adjacent said second end wall with an annular space therebetween, said wiring for said switches being disposed in said annular space, said second end wall having a socket terminating said wiring extending outward therefrom for connection of a cable for interconnection with the robotic apparatus. 17. A safety mount as set forth in claim 10 having a registration system for maintaining the presser head in predetermined orientation with respect to the ring. 18. A safety mount as set forth in claim 17 wherein said registration system comprises at least one detent and cooperating groove on the ring and presser head holding the presser head against rotation on said axis while allowing canting and axial movement of the presser head. 19. A safety mount as set forth in claim 18 having detents constituted by pins protruding from the ring and extending generally radially thereof between the switches, the presser head having a plurality of grooves in the face thereof facing the ring and receiving the pins. 20. A safety mount for a tool or other working instrumentality on robotic apparatus, for protection thereof should the tool or instrumentality encounter an obstruction to movement by the apparatus, said mount comprising a hollow housing having a first end and a second end and an axis extending longitudinally thereof passing through said ends, said housing being attachable at said first end to the robotic apparatus for robotic movement thereof, a plurality of pairs of electrical terminals in the housing, each pair being situated radially outward of said axis, a member having a head in the housing and a stem extending generally on said axis out of the second end of the housing for attachment thereto of a holder for said tool or instrumentality, said member being biased in the direction toward said second end for effecting electrical connection of the terminals of each pair, said pairs being connected in an electrical circuit in series for completion of the circuit when said terminals of each pair are connected, said circuit being broken when said tool or instrumentality encounters an obstruction with resultant angular deflection of said presser head breaking at least one of said connections or the encounter moves the stem axially inward with resultant movement of said head to break all the connections. 