Substances having useful pharmacological properties are identified by candidate screeners and screening methods. The substances may be incorporated into medicaments. The substances may have modulating activity with respect to pre-defined molecular targets.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of modulating the activity of a selected molecular targets with a selected chemical compound, comprising: storing a set of chemical compounds in addressable wells in a chemical library; programming a chemical storage and retrieval module containing said chemical compounds for the selection of a subset of said chemical compounds; removing said subset of said addressable chemical wells from sad chemical storage module with an automated robotic retriever; routing said selected subset of addressable chemical wells away from said chemical storage and retrieval module and toward a liquid processing apparatus in a transport pathway; retrieving said programmed subset of said chemical compounds with said liquid processing apparatus by retrieving liquid samples from less than all of said removed subset of addressable chemical wells; testing, in said liquid processing apparatus, said selected set of chemical compounds for modulating activity against one or more selected molecular targets; selecting a chemical compound from among said selected set of chemical compounds that modulates that activity of at least one or more selected molecular targets; and contacting said selected chemical compound with said selected molecular target such that the activity of said selected molecular target is modulated. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said chemical compound consists essentially of an entity selected from the group consisting of polypeptides, oligonucleotides, peptoids, peptide nucleic acids, benzodiazapines, nonpeptidal peptidomimetics, oligocarbamates, and peptidyl phosphonates. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said chemical compound has modulating activity with respect to said molecular target selected from the group consisting of ion channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, kainite receptors, AMPA receptor, GABA receptors, nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, excitatory amino acid receptors, soluble proteins, membrane proteins, hormone receptors, transcription factors, proteases, kinases, and phosphatases. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said testing comprises testing at a rate of at least 50,000 chemical compounds in 24 hours. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said testing comprises testing at a rate of at least 100,000 chemical compounds in 24 hours. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said testing comprises testing at a rate of at least 300,000 compounds in 24 hours. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said testing comprises testing at a rate of at least 500,000 chemical compounds in 24 hours. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said testing comprises testing at a rate of at least 1,000,000 chemical compounds in 24 hours. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said testing comprises a cell based assay. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said testing comprises a biochemical assay. 11. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising incorporating a pharmaceutically effective amount of said chemical compound having modulating activity into a biocompatible carrier. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said molecular target is an enzyme. 