An I/O device in the form of an internal dongle includes a body having connective structure being arranged to removably attach the body to a housing of an electronic device. The dongle also includes a circuit assembly that has an exterior connector on the body for electrically connecting to a second electronic device, a dongle circuit being electrically coupled to the external connector through the body, an electronic cable having a first end electrically coupled to the dongle circuit, and a second end being structured and arranged to connect to an electronic component of the first mentioned electronic device within the housing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control device comprising: a housing, at least one PCMCIA card enclosed internal to said housing, said PCMCIA card being adapted for communications with a field device, said PCMCIA card being coupled to said field device via at least a circuit device. 2. A control device according to claim 1, further comprising an electrical connector in electrical communication with the PCMCIA card, said electrical connector being accessible external to said housing for coupling to said field device. 3. A control device according to claim 2, at least a portion of the circuit device is mounted to the electrical connector. 4. A control device according to claim 2, wherein said electrical connector is mounted to said housing. 5. A control device according to claim 2, wherein said electrical connector is in electrical communication with the PCMCIA card via at least one or more wires that are enclosed internal to said housing. 6. A control device according to claim 1, wherein said PCMCIA card is adapted for communications with a field device that comprises any of a sensor, a valve, a controller, and a controlled device. 7. A control device according to claim 1, further comprising a processor that is in electrical communication with said PCMCIA card. 8. A control device according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the control device is adapted for use in process control. 9. A control device according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the control device is adapted to any of monitor and control an industrial operation, a commercial application, a home application and an environmental factor. 10. A control device according to claim 9, wherein any of monitoring and controlling an industrial operation includes any of controlling a portion of a plant, controlling a machine, controlling a robot, controlling a valve, controlling a reaction chamber, controlling a rate of flow, controlling a reaction parameter, managing a controlled device, receiving status information, receiving information from a sensor, receiving information regarding a process under control, notifying a controller, performing a bookkeeping operation, tracking inventory, transferring a component from inventory, and wherein any of monitoring and controlling an environmental application includes any of a heating operation, an air conditioning operation, a ventilation operation, an illumination operation, an energy consumption operation, an energy supply operation. 11. A control device according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the circuit device is a dongle. 12. A control device according to claim 11, wherein the dongle comprises a passive circuit. 13. A control device according to claim 11, wherein the dongle comprises an active circuit. 14. A control device according to claim 11, wherein the dongle comprises a circuit board. 15. A control device according to claim 11, wherein the dongle provides signal conditioning. 16. A control device according to claim 11, wherein the dongle comprises any of an active circuit and a passive circuit disposed on a circuit board and providing signal conditioning. 17. A control device according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the circuit device comprises a passive circuit. 18. A control device according to claim 17, wherein the passive circuit is disposed on a circuit board. 19. A control device according to claim 17, wherein the passive circuit provides signal conditioning. 20. A control device according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the circuit device comprises an active circuit. 21. A control device according to claim 20, wherein the active circuit is disposed on a circuit board. 22. A control device according to claim 20, wherein the passive circuit provides signal conditioning. 23. A control device according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein the circuit device comprises a circuit board. 24. A control device comprising: a housing, at least one PCMCIA card enclosed internal to said housing, said PCMCIA card being adapted for communications with a field device that comprises any of a sensor, a valve, a controller, and a controlled device, and an electrical connector in electrical communication with the PCMCIA card via at least one or more wires and via one or more circuit devices, said electrical connector being accessible external to said housing for coupling to said field device. 25. A control device according to claim 24, at least a portion of the circuit device is mounted to the electrical connector. 26. A control device according to claim 24, wherein said electrical connector is mounted to said housing. 27. A control device according to any one of claims 24-26, wherein the control device is adapted for use in process control. 28. A control device according to any one of claims 24-26, wherein the control device is adapted to any of monitor and control an industrial operation, a commercial application, a home application and an environmental factor. 29. A control device according to claim 28, wherein any of monitoring and controlling an industrial operation includes any of controlling a portion of a plant, controlling a machine, controlling a robot, controlling a valve, controlling a reaction chamber, controlling a rate of flow, controlling a reaction parameter, managing a controlled device, receiving status information, receiving information from a sensor, receiving information regarding a process under control, notifying a controller, performing a bookkeeping operation, tracking inventory, transferring a component from inventory, and wherein any of monitoring and controlling an environmental application includes any of a heating operation, an air conditioning operation, a ventilation operation, an illumination operation, an energy consumption operation, an energy supply operation. 30. A control device according to any one of claims 24-26, wherein the circuit device is a dongle. 31. A control device according to claim 30, wherein the dongle comprises a passive circuit. 32. A control device according to claim 30, wherein the dongle comprises an active circuit. 33. A control device according to claim 30, wherein the dongle comprises a circuit board. 34. A control device according to claim 30, wherein the dongle provides signal conditioning. 35. A control device according to claim 30, wherein the dongle comprises any of an active circuit and a passive circuit disposed on a circuit board and providing signal conditioning. 36. A control device according to any one of claims 24-26, wherein the circuit device comprises a passive circuit. 37. A control device according to claim 36, wherein the passive circuit is disposed on a circuit board. 38. A control device according to claim 36, wherein the passive circuit provides signal conditioning. 39. A control device according to any one of claims 24-26, wherein the circuit device comprises an active circuit. 40. A control device according to claim 39, wherein the active circuit is disposed on a circuit board. 41. A control device according to claim 39, wherein the active circuit provides signal conditioning. 42. A control device according to any one of claims 24-26, wherein the circuit device comprises a circuit board. 43. A control device, comprising a processor, at least one PCMCIA card that is in electrical communication with the processor, said PCMCIA card adapted for communications with a field device, said PCMCIA card being coupled to said field device via at least a circuit device, the processor being configured to any of monitor and control the field device, a housing, the PCMCIA card being enclosed internal to said housing. 44. A control device according to claim 43, further comprising an electrical connector in electrical communication with the PCMCIA card, said electrical connector being accessible external to said housing for coupling to a field device. 45. A control device according to claim 44, wherein at least a portion of the circuit device is mounted to the electrical connector. 46. A control device according to claim 44, wherein said electrical connector is mounted to said housing. 47. A control device according to claim 44, wherein said electrical connector is in electrical communication with the PCMCIA card via at least one or more wires that are enclosed internal to said housing. 48. A control device according to any one of claims 43-47, wherein the control device is adapted for use in process control. 49. A control device according to any one of claims 43-47, wherein the control device is adapted to any of monitor and control an industrial operation, a commercial application, a home application and an environmental factor. 50. A control device according to any one of claims 43-47, wherein the circuit device is a dongle. 51. A control device according to any one of claims 43-47, wherein the circuit device comprises a passive circuit. 52. A control device according to any one of claims 43-47, wherein the circuit device comprises a circuit board. 53. A control device according to claim 49, wherein any of monitoring and controlling an industrial operation includes any of controlling a portion of a plant, controlling a machine, controlling a robot, controlling a valve, controlling a reaction chamber, controlling a rate of flow, controlling a reaction parameter, managing a controlled device, receiving status information, receiving information from a sensor, receiving information regarding a process under control, notifying a controller, performing a bookkeeping operation, tracking inventory, transferring a component from inventory, and wherein any of monitoring and controlling an environmental application includes any of a heating operation, an air conditioning operation, a ventilation operation, an illumination operation, an energy consumption operation, an energy supply operation. 54. A control device according to claim 50, wherein the dongle comprises a passive circuit. 55. A control device according to claim 50, wherein the dongle comprises an active circuit. 56. A control device according to claim 50, wherein the dongle comprises a circuit board. 57. A control device according to claim 50, wherein the dongle provides signal conditioning. 58. A control device according to claim 50, wherein the dongle comprises any of an active circuit and a passive circuit disposed on a circuit board and providing signal conditioning. 59. A control device according to claim 51, wherein the passive circuit is disposed on a circuit board. 60. A control device according to claim 51, wherein the passive circuit provides signal conditioning. 61. A control device according to any one of claims 43-47, wherein the circuit device comprises an active circuit. 62. A control device according to claim 61, wherein the active circuit is disposed on a circuit board. 63. A control device according to claim 61, wherein the active circuit provides signal conditioning. 