This invention provides methods by which biologically derived DNA sequences in a mixed sample or in an arrayed single sequence clone can be determined and classified without sequencing. The methods make use of information on the presence of carefully chosen target subsequences, typically of length from 4 to 8 base pairs, and preferably the length between target subsequences in a sample DNA sequence together with DNA sequence databases containing lists of sequences likely to be present in the sample to determine a sample sequence. The preferred method uses restriction endonucleases to recognize target subsequences and cut the sample sequence. Then carefully chosen recognition moieties are ligated to the cut fragments, the fragments amplified, and the experimental observation made. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is the preferred method of amplification. Another embodiment of the invention uses information on the presence or absence of carefully chosen target subsequences in a single sequence clone together with DNA sequence databases to determine the clone sequence. Computer implemented methods are provided to analyze the experimental results and to determine the sample sequences in question and to carefully choose target subsequences in order that experiments yield a maximum amount of information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A kit comprising: (a) one or more containers having one or more restriction endonucleases; (b) one or more containers having one or more shorter oligodeoxynucleotide strands; (c) one or more containers having one or more longer oligodeoxynucleotide strands hybridizable with said shorter strands, wherein either the longer or the shorter oligodeoxynucleotide strands each comprise a sequence complementary to an overhang produced by at least one of said one or more restriction endonucleases; and (d) instructions packaged in association with said one or more containers for use of said restriction endonucleases, shorter strands, and longer strands for identifying, classifying, or quantifying one or more DNA molecules in a DNA sample, said instructions comprising: i. digest said sample with said restriction endonucleases into fragments, each fragment being terminated on each end by a recognition site of said one or more restriction endonucleases; ii. contact said shorter and longer strands and said digested fragments to form double stranded DNA adapters annealed to said digested fragments, iii. ligate said longer strand to said fragments; iv. generate one or more signals by separating and detecting such of said fragments that are digested on each end, each signal comprising a representation of the length of the fragment and the identity of the recognition sites on both termini of the fragments; and v. search a nucleotide sequence database to determine sequences that match or the absence of any sequences that match said one or more generated signals, said database comprising a plurality of known nucleotide sequences of nucleic acids that may be present in the sample, a sequence from said database matching a generated signal when the sequence from said database has both (i) the same length between occurrences of said recognition sites of said one or more restriction endonucleases as is represented by the generated signal and (ii) the same recognition sites of said one or more restriction endonucleases as is represented by the generated signal. 2. The kit of claim 1, wherein said one or more restriction endonucleases generate 5' overhangs at the terminus of digested fragments, wherein each said shorter oligodeoxynucleotide strand consists of a first and second contiguous portion, said first portion being a 5' end subsequence complementary to the overhang produced by one of said restriction endonucleases, and wherein each said longer oligodeoxynucleotide strand comprises a 3' end subsequence complementary to said second portion of said shorter oligodeoxynucleotide strand. 3. The kit of claim 1, wherein said one or more restriction endonucleases generate 3' overhangs at the terminus of the digested fragments, wherein each said longer oligodeoxynucleotide strand consists of a first and second contiguous portion, said first portion being a 3' end subsequence complementary to the overhang produced by one of said restriction endonucleases, and wherein each said shorter oligodeoxynucleotide strand is complementary to the 3' end of said second portion of said longer oligodeoxynucleotide stand. 4. The kit of claim 1 wherein said instructions further comprise those signals expected from one or more DNA molecules of interest when said sample is digested with a particular one or more restriction endonucleases selected from among said one or more restriction endonucleases in said kit. 5. The kit of claim 4 wherein said one or more DNA molecules of interest are cDNA molecules differentially expressed in a disease condition. 6. The kit of claim 1 wherein the restriction endonucleases are selected from the group consisting of Acc65I, AflII, AgeI, ApaLI, ApoI, AscI, AvrI, BamHI, BclI, BglII, BsiWI, Bsp120I, BspEI, BspHI, BsrGI, BssHII, BstYI, EagI, EcoRI, HindIII, MluI, NcoI, NgoMI, NheI, NotI, SpeI, and XbaI. 7. The kit of claim 1 which comprises one or more containers having one or more double stranded adapter DNA molecules formed by annealing said longer and said shorter oligonucleotide strands. 8. The kit of claim 1 further comprising a computer readable memory that can be used to direct a programmable apparatus to function for analyzing signals according to steps comprising: (a) inputting one or more actual signals generated by probing a sample comprising a plurality of nucleic acids with recognition means, each recognition means recognizing a target nucleotide subsequence or a set of target nucleotide subsequences, said signals comprising a representation of (i) the length between occurrences of said target subsequences in a nucleic acid of said sample, and (ii) the identities of said target subsequences in said nucleic acid, or the identities of said sets of target subsequences among which is included the target subsequences in said nucleic acid; (b) searching a sequence in a nucleotide sequence database for occurrences of said target subsequences or target subsequences that are members of said sets of target subsequences, and for the length between such occurrences, said database comprising a plurality of known nucleotide sequences that may be present in said sample; (c) matching said one or more actual signals and a sequence in said database when the sequence in said database has both (i) the same length between occurrences of target subsequences as is represented by said one or more actual signals and (ii) the same target subsequences as are represented by said one or more actual signals, or target subsequences that are members of the sets of target subsequences as are represented by said one or more actual signals; and (d) repetitively performing said searching and matching steps for the majority of sequences in the database and outputting those database sequences that match said one or more actual signals. 9. The kit of claim 1 further comprising a computer readable memory that can be used to direct a programmable apparatus to function for selecting target subsequences according to steps comprising: (a) selecting initial target subsequences or initial sets of target subsequences; (b) searching a sequence in a nucleotide sequence database for occurrences of said initial target subsequences or occurrences of target subsequences that are members of said initial sets of target subsequences and for the length between such occurrences, said database comprising a plurality of known nucleotide sequences that may be present in said sample; (c) determining an initial pattern of signals that can be generated from said selected initial target subsequences or said initial sets of target subsequences, said signals comprising a representation of (i) the length between said occurrences in a sequence in said database, and (ii) the identities of said initial target subsequences that occur in said sequence in said database, or the identities of target subsequences that are members of the initial sets of target subsequences that occur in said sequence in said database; and (d) ascertaining the value of said determined initial pattern according to an information measure; and (e) repetitively performing said selecting, searching, determining, and ascertaining steps to determine a further pattern of signals and a further value of said information measure, and accepting the further target subsequences when said further pattern optimizes said further value of said information measure. 10. The kit of claim 1 further comprising a computer readable memory that can be used to direct a programmable apparatus to function for displaying data according to steps comprising: (a) selecting target subsequences or sets of target subsequences, such that recognition means for recognizing said target subsequences or said sets of target subsequences can be used to generate signals by probing a sample comprising a plurality of nucleic acids, said signals comprising a representation of (i) the length between occurrences of said target subsequences in a nucleic acid of said sample and (ii) the identities of said target subsequences in said nucleic acid or the identities of said sets of target subsequences among which are included the target subsequences in said nucleic acid; (b) inputting one or more actual signals generated by probing said sample with said recognition means; (c) analyzing said one or more actual signals to determine which sequences in a nucleotide sequence database can generate said actual signals when subject to said recognition means, said database comprising a plurality of known nucleotide sequences that may be present in said sample; and (d) inputting user requests to control said selecting step to select target subsequences or sets of target subsequences, said inputting step to input actual signals, and said analyzing step to find the sequences in said database that can generate said actual signals, and outputting in response to further user requests information comprising said actual signals and said sequences in said database that can generate said actual signals. 11. The kit of claim 1 further comprising in a container a DNA ligase. 12. The kit of claim 1 further comprising in a container a phosphatase capable of removing terminal phosphates from a DNA sequence. 13. The kit of claim 1 further comprising in one or more containers: (a) one or more primers, each said primer consisting of a single stranded oligodeoxynucleotide comprising the sequence of one of said longer strands; and (b) a DNA polymerase. 14. The kit of claim 13 wherein each of said one or more primers further comprises (a) a first subsequence that is the portion of the recognition site of one of said one or more restriction endonucleases remaining at the terminus of a fragment after digestion, and (b) a second subsequence of one or two additional nucleotides contiguous with and 3' to said first subsequence, wherein said primer is detectably labeled such that primers with differing said one or two additional nucleotides have different labels that can be distinguishably detected. 15. The kit of claim 1 wherein said instructions further comprise: detect such of said fragments digested on each end by a method comprising staining said fragments with silver, labeling said fragments with a DNA intercalating dye, or detecting light emission from a fluorochrome label on said fragments. 16. The kit of claim 1 further comprising: (a) reagents for performing a cDNA sample preparation step; (b) reagents for performing a step of digestion by one or more restriction endonucleases; (c) reagents for performing a ligation step; and (d) reagents for performing a PCR amplification step. 