An articulated apparatus is disclosed that includes a first link member, a second link member, and a third link member. The second link member is coupled to the first link member at a proximal end of the second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation. The third link member is coupled to a distal end of the second link member by a second joint. The movement of the third link member with respect to the second link member is governed by at least one tendon that passes through the first axis of rotation of the first joint such that movement of the second member with respect to the first member does not cause movement of the third member with respect to the second member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation; and a third link member coupled to a distal end of said second link member by a second joint, the movement of said third link member with respect to said second link member being governed by at least one tendon that passes through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member does not cause movement of said third link member with respect to said second link member. 2. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a base portion including drive means for controlling the movement of each said link member with respect to other link members. 3. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least one tendon includes a cable having a diameter of about 80/1000 inch. 4. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of said first, second and third link members may be inserted into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 5. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation; and at least one tendon extending through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member is independent of movement of said at least one tendon with respect to said first joint, said tendon being movable in a tendon direction that is transverse to the first axis of rotation to effect movement of a third link member with respect to said second link member. 6. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said apparatus further includes a second tendon that extends through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member is independent of movement of said tendons with respect to said first joint. 7. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said apparatus further includes a base portion including drive means for controlling the movement of each said link member with respect to other link members. 8. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said at least one tendon includes a cable having a diameter of about 80/1000 inch. 9. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein at least one of said first, second and third link members may be inserted into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 10. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation; and a plurality of mutually independently longitudinally movable tendons each extending through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member is independent of longitudinal movement of said tendons with respect to said first joint, said tendons being movable in a longitudinal direction that is transverse to the first axis of rotation to effect movement of a plurality of distal link members that coupled to the distal end of said second link member. 11. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein at least some of said serially coupled link members may be introduced into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 12. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein said tendons each include a cable having a diameter of about 80/1000 inch. 13. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein at least one of said link members may be inserted into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 14. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation; and a third link member coupled to a distal end of said second link member by a second joint, the movement of said third link member with respect to said second link member being governed by at least one tendon that passes through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said at least one tendon with respect to said first joint does not cause movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member. 15. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein said at least one tendon includes a cable having a diameter of about 80/1000 inch. 16. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein at least one of said first, second and third link members may be inserted into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 17. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint; and a third link member coupled to a distal end of said second link member by a second joint, the movement of said third link member with respect to said second link member being governed by at least one tendon that passes through said first joint such that movement of said second member with respect to said first member does not cause movement of said third member with respect to said second member, and such movement of said at least one tendon with respect to said first joint is independent of and does not cause movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member. 18. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein said apparatus further includes a base portion including drive means for controlling the movement of each said link member with respect to other link members. 19. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said at least one tendon includes a cable having a diameter of about 80/1000 inch. 20. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein at least one of said first, second and third link members may be inserted into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 21. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 17, wherein one of said link members comprises an end effector. 22. An articulated apparatus comprising: a first link member; a second link member coupled to said first link member at a proximal end of said second link member by a first joint having a first axis of rotation; and a plurality of mutually independently longitudinally movable tendons each extending through said first axis of rotation of said first joint such that movement of said second link member with respect to said first link member is independent of longitudinal movement of said tendons with respect to said first joint, said tendons being movable in a longitudinal direction that is transverse to the first axis of rotation to effect movement of at least a third link member that coupled to the distal end of said second link member. 23. An articulated apparatus as claimed in claim 22, wherein at least one of said link members may be inserted into a patient during endoscopic surgery. 