Ion exchange membrane-based sensors, actuators and sensor/actuators and methods of making same for applications requiring sensing, actuating and controlling displacement. Sensors, actuators, and sensor/actuators are useful in biological as well as other applications. Encapsulation of the sensors, actuators, or sensor/actuators further increases the utility of the present invention. Devices according to the present invention made using lithium are preferred over those made using only sodium.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensing element comprising: an ion exchange polymer; a porous conductive layer embedded in said polymer with penetration inside said polymer comprising at least two embedded electrodes wherein movement of said polymer in a dry environment generates an electrical potential between at least two of said at least two electrodes; and an impermeable flexible coating encapsulating said ion exchange polymer. 2. The element according to claim 1, wherein said generated electrical potential feeds back to said sensing element. 3. The element according to claim 1, wherein said generated electrical potential feeds back to said sensing element to control a position of said sensing element. 4. The element according to claim 1 wherein said at least two embedded electrodes comprise dendritically embedded electrodes. 5. The element according to claim 1, wherein said flexible coating provides biocompatibility with biological material in which said sensing element is placed. 6. The element according to claim 1, wherein said flexible coating permits transport of at least one member selected from the group consisting of mass transport and energy transport. 7. The element according to claim 1, wherein said flexible coating comprises a non-porous material. 8. An actuating device comprising: an ion exchange polymer; a porous conductive layer embedded in said polymer with penetration inside said polymer comprising at least two embedded electrodes wherein application of an electrical potential across said electrodes causes movement of said polymer in a dry environment; and an impermeable flexible coating encapsulating said ion exchange polymer. 9. The actuating device according to claim 8, further comprising embedded feedback electrodes for sensing motion. 10. The element according to claim 8 wherein said at least two embedded electrodes comprise dendritically embedded electrodes. 11. A sensing element comprising: an ion exchange polymer; a porous conductive layer embedded in said polymer with penetration inside said polymer comprising at least two embedded electrodes wherein deformation of said polymer generates an electrical potential between at least two of said at least two electrodes; and an impermeable flexible surrounding coating attached to and forming an outer surface of said polymer and a portion of the electrodes and which moves in conformity with the deformation of said polymer in a dry environment. 12. The element according to claim 11, wherein said flexible surrounding coating encapsulates said sensing element. 13. The element according to claim 11, wherein said flexible surrounding coating provides biocompatibility with biological material in which said sensing element is placed. 14. The element according to claim 11, wherein said flexible surrounding coating permits transport of at least one member selected from the group consisting of mass transport and energy transport. 15. The element according to claim 11 wherein said at least two embedded electrodes comprise dendritically embedded electrodes. 16. A sensing element comprising: an ion exchange polymer; a porous conductive layer comprising a sufficient thickness to trap water within said ion exchange polymer embedded in said polymer with penetration inside said polymer comprising at least two embedded electrodes wherein movement of said polymer in a dry environment generates an electrical potential between at least two of said at least two electrodes. 17. The element according to claim 16, wherein said generated electrical potential feeds back to said sensing element. 18. The element according to claim 16, wherein said generated electrical potential feeds back to said sensing element to control a position of said sensing element. 19. An actuating device comprising: an ion exchange polymer; a porous conductive layer comprising a sufficient thickness to trap water within said ion exchange polymer embedded in said polymer with penetration inside said polymer comprising at least two embedded electrodes wherein application of an electrical potential across said electrodes causes movement of said polymer in a dry environment. 20. The actuating device according to claim 19, further comprising embedded feedback electrodes for sensing motion. 