An adjustable shelving unit for a robotic work station includes a plurality of elongated upright channel members each having a C-shaped transverse cross-section, the channel members being arranged in parallel pairs; and at least one shelf being releasably and movably clamped to the channel members by spring nut means so as to be adjustable in both height and angle with respect to the channel members. The adjustable shelving unit is useful in combination with a work piece positioning device and can even be attached thereto so that bins for parts and parts can be stored near their point-of-use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In combination, a work piece positioning device for a robot and an adjustable shelving unit comprising: a shelf frame having an aperture therein for receiving at least one shelf; an elongated first member attached to the shelf frame adjacent the aperture and including a longitudinal channel therein having a C-shaped transverse cross-section; an elongated second member attached to the shelf frame adjacent the aperture, the second member being spaced from and parallel to the first member, the second member including a longitudinal channel therein having a C-shaped transverse cross-section; a shelf positioned in the aperture between the first and second members and including opposite first and second side edges adjacent the first and second members respectively; spring nut mounting means attached to the shelf adjacent the first and second side edges and inserted into spring biased frictional sliding engagement within the C-shaped channel of the first member and the C-shaped channel of the second member respectively so as to slidingly, pivotally, and releasably clamp the shelf in a given height and angular position relative to the first and second members; whereby the height and angle of the shelf with respect to the first and second members are adjustable by unclamping the spring nut mounting means from the first and second channel members and moving the shelf from a first position to a second position, thence clamping the spring nut mounting means to the first and second channel members. 2. The combination of claim 1 wherein the spring nut mounting means includes a spring nut and a spring inserted into the C-shaped channel, and a L-shaped bracket attached to the shelf, the bracket being connected to the spring nut by a threaded fastener so as to releasably clamp a portion of the C-shaped channel between the bracket and the nut. 3. The combination of claim 2 wherein the L-shaped bracket has a first leg and a second leg, the first leg having a round hole therethrough for receiving a fastener to attach the first leg to the shelf, the second leg having an elongated slot therethrough for receiving the fastener connecting the bracket to the spring nut. 4. The combination of claim 3 comprising third and fourth members identical to the first and second members, the third and fourth members being spaced behind the first and second members and having mounting means independently associated therewith such that a rear portion of the shelf can be set to a height that is different than a front portion of the shelf. 5. The combination of claim 4 wherein the shelf has a pair of round holes through the rear portion of the shelf and a pair of elongated slots through the front portion of the shelf, said holes and slots each being adapted to receive the fastener for attaching the first leg of the bracket to the shelf. 6. The combination of claim 1 wherein the adjustable shelving unit comprises a plurality of adjustable shelves. 7. The combination of claim 1 wherein the shelf frame is attached to the workpiece positioning device. 8. The combination of claim 1 wherein the shelf frame is rigidly attached to the workpiece positioning device. 9. In combination, a work piece positioning device and an adjustable shelving unit comprising: four elongated upright channel members each having a C-shaped transverse cross-section, the channel members being arranged in parallel pairs, at least one of the channel members being attached to the work piece positioning device; at least one shelf being releasably and movably clamped to the four channel members by four spring nut means so as to be adjustable in both height and angle with respect to the channel members. 10. The combination of claim 9 wherein the work piece positioning device has a frame with a headstock and a tailstock thereon, the adjustable shelving unit being attached to the tailstock. 11. The combination of claim 9 wherein the work piece positioning device has a frame with a headstock and a tailstock thereon, the adjustable shelving unit being attached to the headstock. 12. The combination of claim 11 wherein the adjustable shelf further comprises a shelf frame including a pair of spaced opposite side rails connected by a top rail and a bottom rail, one of the side rails being attached to the headstock and the other of the side rails comprising a round tube on which a swivel stand is pivotally mounted. 13. The combination of claim 12 comprising an operator console pivotally mounted to the swivel stand. 14. An adjustable shelving unit comprising: four elongated upright channel members each having a C-shaped transverse cross-section, the channel members being arranged in parallel pairs; at least one shelf being releasably and movably clamped to the four channel members by four spring nut means so as to be adjustable in both height and angle with respect to the channel members. 