A machine system having optical endpoint control and an associated method for monitoring the position of a machine are provided which includes at least one steerable retroreflective system that defines a relatively large effective acceptance angle, typically exceeding 320.degree.. In particular, the machine system includes a machine capable of movement in at least one direction and a steerable retroreflective system mounted upon the machine, such as upon the end effector of the machine, for movement therewith. The machine system also includes at least one light source for illuminating the retroreflector such that the position of at least a portion of the machine is determinable based upon reflections from the retroreflector. As such, the machine system can make any necessary corrections in the computer control of the machine to accommodate for differences between the anticipated position of the machine and the actual position of the machine.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A machine system having optical endpoint control comprising: a machine capable of movement in at least one direction; at least one steerable retroreflective system mounted upon said machine for movement therewith, said at least one steerable retroreflective system comprising: a retroreflector for reflecting at least some light incident thereupon; at least one positioner for moving said retroreflector; and a controller for directing said at least one positioner to controllably steer said retroreflector toward rays of light emitted by different respective light sources; and at least one light source for illuminating said retroreflector such that the position of at least a portion of said machine is determinable based upon reflections therefrom. 2. A machine system according to claim 1 wherein said means for controllably steering said retroreflector comprises: at least one positioner for moving said retroreflector; and a controller for directing said at least one positioner to controllably steer said retroreflector to follow the incident laser beam provided by said light source. 3. A machine system according to claim 1 wherein said retroreflector comprises a trihedral prism having an input surface through which incident light is received and a plurality of reflective surfaces for reflecting the incident light, and wherein said trihedral prism defines an at least partially transmissive window opposite the input surface such that leakage light passes through said window and escapes from said trihedral prism. 4. A machine system according to claim 1 further comprising a process controller for directing movement of said machine at least partially based upon the position of said machine as determined from reflections from said retroreflector. 5. A machine system according to claim 1 wherein each steerable retroreflective system further comprises an optical detector for detecting leakage light that passes through said retroreflector. 6. A machine system according to claim 5 wherein said optical detector defines a target zone, and wherein said means for controllably steering said retroreflector steers said retroreflector to move the leakage light toward the target zone. 7. A machine system having optical endpoint control comprising: a plurality of retroreflective systems mounted upon said machine for movement therewith, each said steerable retroreflective system comprising: a retroreflector for reflecting at least some light incident thereupon; and means for controllably steering said retroreflector; and at least one light source for illuminating said retroreflector such that the position of at least a portion of said machine is determinable based upon reflections therefrom; and a process controller for directing said at least one light source to point toward the retroreflectors of different respective retroreflective systems. 8. A method for monitoring a position of a machine capable of movement in at least one direction, the method comprising: illuminating a retoreflector mounted upon the machine with an incident ray of light, wherein illuminating the retroreflector comprises illuminating the retroreflector with a plurality of laser beams from different directions; steering the retroreflector toward the incident ray of light, wherein steering the retroreflector comprises steering the retroreflector to point in the direction of different respective laser beams; detecting reflections of the light from the retroreflector; and determining the position of at least a portion of the machine based upon the reflected light. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein steering the retroreflector comprises positioning the retroreflector to follow the incident light. 10. A method according to claim 8 wherein steering the retroreflector comprises: detecting leakage light that passes through the retroreflector with an optical detector having a target zone; and steering the retroreflector to move the leakage light toward the target zone such that the retroreflector points in a direction defined by the incident light. 11. A method according to claim 8 further comprising directing movement of the machine at least partially based upon the position of the machine as determined from reflections from the retroreflector. 12. A method for monitoring a position of a machine capable of movement in at least one direction, the method comprising: steering a plurality of retroreflectors mounted upon the machine such that the retroreflector points toward an incident ray of light; illuminating different respective retroreflectors with the incident light; detecting reflections of the light from the retroreflector; and determining the position of at least a portion of the machine based upon the reflected light. 13. A machine system capable of being precisely positioned relative to a workpiece, the machine system comprising: a machine capable of movement in at least one direction; at least one steerable retroreflective system mounted upon the workpiece, said at least one steerable retroreflective system comprising: a retroreflector for reflecting at least some light incident thereupon; and means for controllably steering said retroreflector; and at least one light source for illuminating said retroreflector such that the relative position of at least a portion of said machine to the workpiece is determinable based at least in part upon reflections from said retroreflector. 14. A machine system according to claim 13 wherein said means for controllably steering said retroreflector comprises: at least one positioner for moving said retroreflector; and a controller for directing said at least one positioner to controllably steer said retroreflector to follow the incident light provided by said light source. 15. A steerable retroreflective system according to claim 13 wherein said retroreflector comprises a trihedral prism having an input surface through which incident light is received and a plurality of reflective surfaces for reflecting the incident light, and wherein said trihedral prism defines an at least partially transmissive window opposite the input surface such that leakage light passes through said window and escapes from said trihedral prism. 16. A machine system according to claim 15 further comprising a process controller for directing movement of said machine at least partially based upon the relative position of at least a portion of said machine to the workpiece as determined from reflections from said retroreflector. 17. A machine system according to claim 13 wherein said at least one light source is mounted upon said machine and adapted to move therewith. 18. A machine system according to claim 13 further comprising a retroreflector mounted upon said machine and adapted to move therewith, wherein said at least one light source also illuminates said retroreflector mounted upon the machine such that the relative position of the machine to the workpiece is determinable based upon reflections from both said reflectometer mounted upon the machine and said reflectometer mounted upon the workpiece. 19. A machine system according to claim 13 wherein each steerable retroreflective system further comprises an optical detector for detecting leakage light that passes through said retroreflector. 20. A machine system according to claim 19 wherein said optical detector defines a target zone, and wherein said means for controllably steering said retroreflector steers said retoreflector to move the leakage light toward the target zone. 21. A method for precisely positioning a machine relative to a workpiece, the method comprising: steering a retroreflector mounted upon the workpiece such that the retroreflector points toward an incident ray of light; illuminating the retroreflector with the incident light; detecting reflections of the light from the retroreflector; and determining the relative position of at least a portion of the machine with respect to the workpiece based at least in part upon the reflected light. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein steering the retroreflector comprises positioning the retroreflector to follow the incident light. 23. A method according to claim 21 wherein steering the retroreflector comprises: detecting leakage light that passes through the retroreflector with an optical detector having a target zone; and steering the retroreflector to move the leakage light toward the target zone such that the retroreflector points in a direction defined by the incident light. 24. A method according to claim 21 further comprising directing movement of the machine at least partially based upon the position of the machine as determined from reflections from the retroreflector. 25. A method according to claim 21 wherein illuminating the retroreflector comprises illuminating the retroreflector with light emitted by a light source mounted upon the machine and adapted for movement therewith. 26. A method according to claim 21 further comprising illuminating another retroreflector mounted upon the machine and adapted for movement therewith, wherein determining the relative position comprises determining the relative position of the machine with respect to the workpiece based upon reflections from the retroreflector mounted upon the workpiece and the retroreflector mounted upon the machine. 