The present invention provides luminescent lanthanide metal chelates comprising a metal ion of the lanthanide series and a complexing agent comprising at least one salicylamidyl moiety. Also provided are probes incorporating the salicylamidyl ligands of the invention and methods utilizing the ligands of the invention and probes comprising the ligands of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A luminescent lanthanide metal chelate comprising at least one salicylamidyl moiety having an oxygen atom complexed to a metal ion of the lanthanide series. 2. The chelate according to claim 1, having a quantum yield of at least 0.1. 3. The chelate according to claim 2, wherein said lanthanide metal ion is a member selected from europium, terbium and combinations thereof. 4. A luminescent lanthanide metal chelate comprising a metal ion of the lanthanide series and a complexing agent comprising at least one salicylamidyl moiety having the structure: ##STR13## wherein R.sup.1 is a member selected from the group consisting of alkyl, substituted alkyl, halogen and --OR.sup.6, wherein R.sup.6 is a member selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl, substituted alkyl groups and a single negative charge; R.sup.11, R.sup.12, R.sup.13 are members independently selected from alkyl, substituted alkyl, H, --NR.sup.14 R.sup.15, --NO.sub.2, --OR.sup.16, --COOR.sup.17, wherein, R.sup.14, R.sup.15, R.sup.16 and R.sup.17 are members independently selected from the group consisting of H, alkyl and substituted alkyl, wherein R.sup.12 can optionally form a ring with R.sup.11, R.sup.13 or both, and R.sup.22 can optionally form a ring with R.sup.21, R.sup.23 or both, said rings being members independently selected from the group of ring systems consisting of cyclic alkyl, substituted cyclic alkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, heteroaryl, substituted heteroaryl, heterocyclyl and saturated heterocyclyl ring systems; and Q.sup.1 is --OR.sup.18 ; wherein R.sup.18 is a member selected from H, an enzymatically labile group, a hydrolytically labile group and a single negative charge. 5. A luminescent terbium chelate comprising at least one salicylamidyl moiety having an oxygen atom complexed to a terbium ion. 