The present invention provides an integrated, fully automated, high-throughput system for two-dimensional electrophoresis comprised of gel-making machines, gel processing machines, gel compositions and geometries, gel handling systems, sample preparation systems, software and methods. The system is capable of continuous operation at high-throughput to allow construction of large quantitative data sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated computer-controlled method for isolating one or more selected macromolecules in a gel, the gel having been subjected to a two-dimensional electrophoresis process, the method comprising: (a) scanning the gel to generate a gel image or replica thereof in the absence of an attached backing material; (b) analyzing the gel image or a replica thereof, said analyzing step including substracting image background from the gel image; (c) isolating a selected protein with a spot cutting device in an automated fashion following the analysis of the gel image by removing a portion of the gel containing the selected macromolecule based on said analyzing step. 2. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 1, further comprising the step of storing data in a database. 3. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 2, wherein: said analyzing step includes generating spot abundance data; and said storing step includes storing the spot abundance data. 4. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 3, wherein: said analyzing step includes generating spot position data; and said storing step includes storing the spot position data. 5. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 4, wherein: said analyzing step includes comparing spot patterns in the gel image with master 2-D patterns to establish spot identities; and said storing step includes storing established spot identities. 6. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 2, wherein: said analyzing step includes generating spot position data; and said storing step includes storing the spot position data. 7. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 6, wherein: said analyzing step includes generating spot abundance data; and said storing step includes storing the spot abundance data. 8. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 6, wherein: said analyzing step includes comparing spot patterns in the gel image with master 2-D patterns to establish spot identities; and said storing step includes storing established spot identities. 9. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 2, wherein: said analyzing step includes comparing spot patterns in the gel image with master 2-D patterns to establish spot identities; and said storing step includes storing established spot identities. 10. An automated computer-controlled method as set forth in claim 9, said analyzing step includes generating spot position and abundance data; and said storing step includes storing the spot position and abundance data. 