A diffuser comprises a conduit having a cross-sectional area that increases in a direction fluid flow. In one embodiment, the diffuser is used to reduce the incidence and severity of flow fluctuations that occur in an electrostatic deposition apparatus. In some embodiments, the diffuser includes one or more flow control features. A first flow-control feature comprises one or more appropriately-shaped annular slits through which fluid having a greater momentum than a primary fluid moving through the diffuser is injected into the "boundary layer" near the wall of the diffuser. A second flow control feature comprises one or more annular slits or, alternatively, slots or holes that are disposed at appropriate locations around the circumference of the diffuser through which a portion of fluid flowing in the boundary layer is removed. Boundary-layer flow removal is effected, in one embodiment, by creating a pressure differential across such annular slit or slots. Among other benefits, such flow control features reduce any tendencies for flow separation of the primary fluid in the diffuser.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for electrostatically depositing powder on a substrate, comprising: a powder-feed apparatus for directing the powder to said substrate, said powder-feed apparatus comprising: a diffuser; and a powder-delivery system that delivers said powder, carried in a first gas, to said diffuser, the powder-delivery system including a powder-charging system that imparts electrical charge to said powder, wherein: said diffuser is operable to: receive the electrically-charged powder from said powder-delivery system; and reduce a velocity of said first gas and said electrically-charged powder to an extent that electrostatic forces control motion of said electrically-charged powder, drawing said electrically-charged powder to said substrate. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a cone angle of said diffuser is about 10 to about 17 degrees. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one flow-control feature that improves uniformity of flow of said first gas and said electrically-charged powder through said diffuser. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said one flow-control feature comprises a boundary-layer gas injector. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said boundary-layer gas injector comprises at least a first annular slit in a wall of said diffuser through which a second gas is injected into said boundary layer. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said boundary-layer gas injector provides a second momentum to said second gas, wherein said second momentum is greater than a first momentum of a portion of said first gas that flows in said boundary layer. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said boundary-layer gas injector further comprises an annular channel that is in fluid communication with said annular slit, wherein said second gas is injected into said annular channel. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said boundary-layer gas injector further comprises at least two nozzles that inject said second gas into said annular channel. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said boundary-layer gas injector further comprises flow control means for independently controlling flow of said second gas through said two nozzles. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said one flow-control feature comprises a boundary-layer gas aspirator. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said boundary-layer gas aspirator comprises: at least a first annular slit in a wall of said diffuser; and a pressure-differential generating means that creates a pressure differential across said first annular slit so that at least some of said first gas in said boundary layer is removed through said first annular slit. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said pressure-differential generating means comprises: a pressure-tight enclosure that isolates said first annular slit from an ambient environment; and a suction-flow-generating means in fluid communication with said pressure-tight enclosure. 13. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein a cone angle of said diffuser is in a range of about 15 to about 30 degrees. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said diffuser comprises: a first section having an inlet and an outlet and characterized by a constant cone angle; and a second section having an inlet adjacent to said outlet of said first section, the second section extending to an outlet of said diffuser, said second section characterized by a variable cone angle that increases from a minimum at said inlet of said second section to a maximum at said outlet of the diffuser. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein: said constant cone angle is in a range of about 10 to about 17 degrees; said variable cone angle is in a range of about 10 to about 17 degrees at said inlet of said second section; and said variable cone angle is in a range of about 25 to about 30 degrees at said outlet of the diffuser. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a flow straightener that receives said electrically-charged powder carried in said first gas and delivers it to said diffuser, wherein said flow straightener is operable to flatten a velocity profile of said first gas. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said flow straightener comprises a plurality of tubes through which said first gas and said electrically-charged powder flows. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said tubes have a length-to-diameter ratio in a range of about 10:1 to about 60:1. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein at least some of said tubes have a different diameter than other of said tubes. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein a tube aligned with a central longitudinal axis of said straightener has a smaller diameter than a tube located off of said central longitudinal axis. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an electrostatic chuck having one or more collection zones, each of which collection zones is operable, in conjunction with a bias source, to generate said electrostatic forces, and further wherein: said substrate is detachably engaged to said electrostatic chuck and overlies said collection zones. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: sensors that are operable to obtain data indicative of a quantity of powder that is deposited at each collection zone; a boundary-layer gas injector comprising: at least one annular slit in a wall of said diffuser through which a second gas is injected into said boundary layer; at least two nozzles that inject said second gas through said annular channel; and means for adjusting said injection of said second gas responsive to said data obtained by said sensors. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 further comprising: an optical detection device for obtaining data indicative of an amount of said powder deposited on said substrate on regions overlying each collection zone. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising a transport element operable to move said electrostatic chuck: to a first location to engage said substrate; to a second location wherein said powder is deposited on said substrate; and to a third location for acquisition of measurement data by said optical detection device. 25. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said powder delivery system comprises: a drum for temporary storage of said powder; a movable belt that receives said powder from said drum; means for removing said powder off said movable belt; and means for receiving said removed powder and directing it towards said powder-charging feed tube. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said powder-charge system comprises a powder charging feed tube. 