There is provided a tactile sensor that is a status sensor that move between inactive and active states. The tactile sensor can cover a large area and can be in the form of long strips. Its construction allows it to cover surfaces that are flat or curved or that include bends. In an exemplary application, these tactile sensors may be used as vehicle bumpers or in other applications where contact with an object, surface or the like needs to be detected. Activation of the sensor, typically coupled to a control system that controls motion of the vehicle, may cause the vehicle to shut off, typically ceasing motion, within a predetermined distance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tactile sensor comprising: a profile member configured to be self supporting and collapsible upon impact comprising: a main portion; a protrusion having a first end and a second end, said first end in communication with said main portion; and an electrically conductive portion at said second end of said protrusion, said electrically conductive portion adapted for electrical contact with an electrically conductive member when said profile member has collapsed. 2. The tactile sensor of claim 1, additionally comprising an electrically conductive member. 3. The tactile sensor of claim 2, additionally comprising a support member, for supporting said electrically conductive member, said support member adapted for attachment to said profile member. 4. The tactile sensor of claim 1, wherein at least said main portion is of an elastically deformable material. 5. The tactile sensor of claim 1, wherein said profile member is of an elastically deformable material. 6. The tactile sensor of claim 1, wherein said protrusion extends from said main portion at an angle of between 0 and 90 degrees with respect to a horizontal. 7. The tactile sensor of claim 6, wherein said angle is approximately 30 degrees. 8. The tactile sensor of claim 1, wherein said electrically conductive portion at said second end of said protrusion comprises a coil. 9. The tactile sensor of claim 2, wherein said electrically conductive member is a strip. 10. The tactile sensor of claim 2, additionally comprising a switch, said switch including a plurality of electrical leads extending therefrom, said electrical leads in communication with said electrically conductive portion and said electrically conductive member, respectively. 11. The tactile sensor of claim 1, wherein said main portion is rounded. 12. The tactile sensor of claim 2, wherein said electrically conductive portion is configured on said profile member to be in alignment with said electrically conductive member. 