A method of forming an oxide on a substrate. According to the method of the present invention a substrate is placed in a chamber. An oxygen containing gas and a hydrogen containing gas are then fed into the chamber. The oxygen containing gas and the hydrogen containing gas are then caused to react with one another to form water vapor in the chamber. The water vapor then oxidizes the substrate.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber wherein the combined partial pressure of said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas is less than or equal to 150 torr during said reaction; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near said substrate to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the combined partial pressure of said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas is less than or equal to 50 torr during said reaction. 3. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber wherein the combined partial pressure of said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas is between 1-50 torr; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near said substrate to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 4. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber wherein said oxygen containing gas is nitrous oxide (N.sub.2 O); providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near said substrate to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 5. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber wherein said hydrogen containing gas is a hydrocarbon; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near said substrate to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 6. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said camber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber wherein said hydrogen containing gas is a deuterium; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber near said substrate to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 7. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate having a silicon surface or film in a chamber; providing an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; providing a hydrogen containing gas into said chambers wherein the combined partial pressure of said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas is between 1-50 torr; heating said substrate to a temperature sufficient to cause a reaction between said hydrogen containing gas and said oxygen containing gas; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber to form an ambient wherein said reaction is initiated by said heated substrate; and oxidizing said silicon surface or film with said ambient to form said oxide. 8. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate in a chamber; providing a process gas mix consisting essentially of a hydrogen containing gas and an oxygen containing gas into said chamber; generating a combined partial pressure of said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas of less than or equal to 150 torr in said chamber; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas in said chamber to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said combined partial pressure is less than or equal to 50 torr. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said combined partial pressure is between 1-50 torr. 11. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate having a silicon film or surface in a chamber; providing a process gas mix consisting essentially of hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) and oxygen gas (O.sub.2) into said chamber; generating a combined partial pressure of said hydrogen gas (H.sub.2) and said oxygen gas (O.sub.2) of less than or equal to 150 torr in said chamber; reacting said oxygen gas and said hydrogen gas in said chamber to form an ambient in said chamber; and oxidizing said silicon film or said silicon surface with said ambient. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said combined partial pressure is less than or equal to 50 torr. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said combined partial pressure is between 1-50 torr. 14. A method of forming an oxide comprising: placing a substrate into a chamber; providing a reactant gas mix comprising a oxygen containing gas and a hydrogen containing gas into said chamber wherein said reactant gas mix has a partial pressure of less than or equal to 30 torr; reacting said oxygen containing gas and said hydrogen containing gas to form an ambient; and oxidizing said substrate with said ambient. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said partial pressure is less than 15 torr. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said oxygen containing gas is oxygen (O.sub.2) gas and said hydrogen containing gas is hydrogen (H.sub.2) gas and wherein said reactant gas mix is provided into said chamber at a ratio between 2% H.sub.2 /98% O.sub.2 to 33% H.sub.2 /66% O.sub.2. 