Transport and in-space assembly of spacecraft from not-qualified-for-launch, low cost parts/modules. Any number of spacecraft or parts thereof are built inexpensively for space usage when they are transported in a manner that does not subject them to stresses of the launch environment. Such spacecraft/parts are transported whole, or in component pieces, in protective containment, i.e., qualified containers which meet all of the applicable safety and performance requirements for containers launched into space. These whole or component pieces of spacecraft may then be tested and deployed and/or assembled and deployed by either robot or human activity. The spacecraft, when at times modular, are assembled so as to form larger structures in space. This piecewise method of construction provides a significant increase in cost-effectiveness concerning both radical spacecraft design and spacecraft-to-launch vehicle qualification processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transporting a launch unqualified spacecraft into outer space, said method comprising the steps of: packaging a launch unqualified spacecraft within a launch qualified container; positioning the launch qualified container within or on a launch vehicle; launching the launch vehicle into outer space; unpackaging the launch unqualified spacecraft from the launch qualified container; and deploying the launch unqualified spacecraft into an orbit within outer space. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said launch unqualified spacecraft includes a plurality of launch unqualified components and wherein said launch qualified container comprises a plurality of launch qualified containers, said packaging step comprising the step of packing the plurality of launch unqualified components in more than one of the plurality of launch qualified containers. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said unpackaging step comprises the step of removing the plurality of launch unqualified components from the more than one of the plurality of launch qualified containers, and further comprises the step of assembling the plurality of launch unqualified components within outer space to create a fully operational launch unqualified spacecraft. 4. A method of transporting a launch unqualified spacecraft into outer space, said method comprising the steps of: positioning a plurality of launch unqualified components of a spacecraft within more than one launch qualified container; securing the more than one launch qualified containers within or on a launch vehicle; launching the launch vehicle into space; removing the plurality of launch unqualified components from the more than one launch qualified containers once the launch vehicle reaches outer space; assembling the plurality of launch unqualified components within outer space to form a fully operational launch unqualified spacecraft; and deploying the fully operational launch unqualified spacecraft into orbit. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of testing the functionality of the launch unqualified spacecraft after said removing step and before said deploying step. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein said positioning step comprises the step of securing and protecting the plurality of launch unqualified components within a qualified material within each of the more than one launch qualified containers. 7. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of transporting the more than one launch qualified containers to a space-based facility prior to said removing step. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said space-based facility comprises a space shuttle and wherein said assembling step comprises the step of manually connecting the plurality of launch unqualified components via human intervention. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein said space-based facility comprises a space shuttle and wherein said assembling step comprises the step of manually connecting the plurality of launch unqualified components via robotic intervention. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein said space-based facility comprises a space station and wherein said assembling step comprises the step of manually connecting the plurality of launch unqualified components via human intervention. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein said space-based facility comprises a space station and wherein said assembling step comprises the step of manually connecting the plurality of launch unqualified components via robotic intervention. 12. An apparatus for transporting a launch unqualified craft into space, said apparatus comprising; a container constructed and arranged to house a spacecraft; and a qualified packaging material positioned within said container and cooperating with said container to absorb forces which would otherwise be incurred by the spacecraft during a launch such that the unqualified spacecraft, when positioned within said qualified packaging material, arrives in outer space fully functional once the spacecraft is removed from said container and deployed in space. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said qualified packaging material comprises a material akin to foam. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said qualified packaging material is capable of protecting a spacecraft packaged therein from vibration frequencies below 100 Hz. 