The present invention relates generally to an improved laser welded work piece, such as an automotive body panel, and a system and method for the manufacture thereof. The invention is also directed to an improved system for manufacturing the welded work piece including an improved laser welder and a laser weld inspection device and system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing a welded work piece comprising the steps of: selecting a first blank of a metallic sheet stock with a first thickness; selecting a second blank of a metallic sheet stock with a second thickness different than the first thickness; simultaneously precision shearing a joining edge of each of the first blank and the second blank with a precision shear device to effect a minimized gap therebetween prior to welding; and laser welding a seam to permanently join the precision sheared edges of the respective first blank and second blank. 2. A method for manufacturing a welded work piece, comprising the steps of: providing a precision shear device configured with at least one upper stamping die that cooperates with at least one lower stamping platen; simultaneously shearing a precision edge on a respective joining edge of a pair of sheet metal blanks using the precision shear device; simultaneously moving the pair of precision sheared blanks together on a conveyor from the precision shear device to a laser weld bed of a welding gantry; precisely locating the blanks to register the precision sheared edges in a compressed, abutting relationship; clamping the respective joining edges of the blanks flat against the weld bed and tightly together in an abutting relationship to form a minimized gap; and laser welding the edges to form a beaded seam and to permanently join the blanks together. 3. A method for manufacturing a welded work piece, comprising the steps of: selecting a plurality of blanks; simultaneously forming a precision sheared edge along one edge of each of the blanks; precisely locating the blanks on a laser weld bed of a welding gantry to register the precision sheared edges in a compressed, abutting relationship; clamping the respective precision sheared edges of the blanks flat against the weld bed and tightly together in an abutting relationship to form a minimized gap therebetween; laser welding the precision sheared edges to form a beaded seam and to permanently join the blanks together; and inspecting the weld bead with a laser weld inspection device slidably coupled to the welding gantry. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the thickness of each of the first and second blanks of metallic sheet stock is between about 0.4 and about 2.0 millimeters. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the thickness of the first blank of metallic sheet stock is between about 0.5 and about 0.75 millimeters, and the thickness of the second blank of metallic sheet stock is between about 1.25 and about 1.5 millimeters. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the minimized gap formed between the first blank of metallic sheet stock and the second blank of metallic sheet stock is less than 0.08 millimeters. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the minimized gap formed between the first blank of metallic sheet stock and the second blank of metallic sheet stock is less than 0.4 millimeters. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising forcing the joining edges of the first and second blanks of metallic sheet stock into contact prior to the shearing thereof. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first blank and second blank of metallic sheet stock are simultaneously transferred into the precision shear device. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein laser welding is accomplished by focusing a laser beam so that between about 70% and about 85% of the cross-sectional area thereof is incident upon the blank of lesser thickness. 11. The method of claim 2, wherein the pair of sheet metal blanks are of dissimilar thickness. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the thickness of each of the pair of sheet metal blanks is between about 0.4 and about 2.0 millimeters. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the thickness of one of the pair of sheet metal blanks is between about 0.5 and about 0.75 millimeters, and the thickness of the other of the pair of sheet metal blanks is between about 1.25 and about 1.5 millimeters. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein laser welding is accomplished by focusing a laser beam so that between about 70% and about 85% of the cross-sectional area thereof is incident upon the blank of lesser thickness. 15. The method of claim 2, wherein the minimized gap formed between the pair of sheet metal blanks is less than 0.08 millimeters. 16. The method of claim 2, wherein the minimized gap formed between the pair of sheet metal blanks is less than 0.04 millimeters. 17. The method of claim 2, wherein the pair of sheet metal blanks are simultaneously transferred into the precision shear device. 18. The method of claim 2, further comprising forcing the joining edges of each of the pair of sheet metal blanks into contact prior to the shearing thereof. 19. The method of claim 3, wherein the abutting blanks are of dissimilar thickness. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the thickness of each of the plurality of blanks is between about 0.4 and about 2.0 millimeters. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein a first of the plurality of blanks has a thickness of between about 0.5 and about 0.75 millimeters, and another of the plurality of blanks abutting the first blank has a thickness of between about 1.25 and about 1.5 millimeters. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein laser welding is accomplished by focusing a laser beam so that between about 70% and about 85% of the cross-sectional area thereof is incident upon the blank of lesser thickness. 23. The method of claim 3, wherein the minimized gap formed between abutting blanks is less than 0.8 millimeters. 24. The method of claim 3, wherein the minimized gap formed between abutting blanks is less than 0.4 millimeters. 