An autonomously movable cleaning robot comprising a platform and motive force to autonomously move the robot on a substantially horizontal surface having boundaries. The robot further has a computer processing unit for storing, receiving and transmitting data, and a cleaning implement operatively associated with the robot. The robot receives input data from an external source. The external source may be physical manipulation of the robot, remote control, or by triangulation from at least three external transmitters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomously, movable home cleaning robot comprising: a) a platform; b) a motive force attached to said platform, said motive force to autonomously move said platform on a substantially horizontal surface having boundaries; c) a computer processing unit for storing, receiving and transmitting data, said computer processing unit attached to said platform; d) a cleaning implement operatively associated with said platform; and e) a power source connected to said motive force and said computer processing unit, whereby said computer processing unit directs horizontal movement of said platform within the boundaries of the horizontal surface based upon input data defining said boundaries, said input data being input to said robot by physical manipulation of said robot or by remote control. 2. An autonomously, movable cleaning robot comprising: a) a platform; b) a motive force attached to said platform, said motive force to autonomously move said platform on a substantially horizontal surface having boundaries; c) a computer processing unit for storing, receiving and transmitting data, said computer processing unit attached to said platform; d) at least one sensor attached to said platform and capable of detecting an obstacle on the horizontal surface, said sensor providing input to said computer processing unit; e) a cleaning implement operatively associated with said platform; and f) a power source connected to said motive force and said computer processing unit, whereby said computer processing unit directs horizontal movement of said platform within the boundaries of the horizontal surface based upon input data received by physical manipulation of said robot or by remote control, wherein said input data are useful for manipulating said robot through a desired task. 3. A home cleaning robot according to claim 2, wherein said sensor interrupts said motion when said sensor senses an obstacle. 4. A autonomously, movable home cleaning robot comprising: a) a platform; b) a motive force attached to said platform, said motive force to autonomously move said platform on a substantially horizontal surface having boundaries; c) a navigation system including a computer processing unit for receiving, storing and transmitting data, said navigation system receiving input about an environment that includes the horizontal surface and using the input to map said horizontal surface; d) a cleaning implement operatively associated with said platform; and e) a power source connected to said motive force and said navigation system, whereby said navigation system directs the movements of said platform in accordance with the map of said horizontal surface, said navigation system comprising a triangulation system including three fixed transmitters located within the environment, said computer processing unit using signals received from said transmitters to calculate a coordinate position of said robot within the boundaries of the surface, and generating a control signal to steer said robot in the direction of the next point of said stored coordinate system. 5. A home cleaning robot according to claim 4, wherein said navigation system includes a receiver for receiving input from the environment, said receiver sending input to said computer processing unit, whereby said computer processing unit using the input to map the horizontal surface. 6. A home cleaning robot according to claim 5, wherein said navigation system including a visual image processor and a camera attached to said robot, said system determining said robot's orientation and position on the surface based upon an image of a ceiling above the surface, said system then generates control signals to steer said robot within the boundaries of the surface. 7. A home cleaning robot according to claim 5, wherein said navigation system includes a position identification apparatus that senses a distance traveled by said robot and a change in a direction of travel of said robot, said navigation system calculates a position of said robot in two-dimensional coordinates in response to the sensed distance and the sensed change in direction, and generates a position signal representative of said robot position. 8. A home cleaning robot according to claims 1, 3 or 5, further comprising a cover removably attached to said platform. 9. A home cleaning robot according to claims 1, 3 or 5, further comprising a ball support. 