A surgical system that may include a remotely controlled surgical instrument. The surgical instrument may be coupled to a tool driver that can spin and actuate the instrument. The instrument may include an actuator rod that is coupled to an end effector and detachably connected to a push rod. The push rod can move relative to the handle to actuate the end effector. The end effector may include a fixture that conforms to the shape of a needle. The handle can be secured to the tool driver by inserting pins into corresponding slots that are located on both the instrument and the tool driver. The instrument can be controlled by an operator through a pair of handles. Each handle may be mechanically balanced by a counterweight. The surgical system may also include a touchpad that allows the operator to enter parameters of the system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument, comprising: a handle; a push rod that is coupled to and movable relative to said handle, said push rod defining a locking cavity therein; an actuator rod detachably coupled to said push rod, said actuator rod including a locking barrel that is located within the locking cavity of said push rod when said actuator rod is coupled to said push rod; and, an end effector that is coupled to said actuator rod. 2. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said handle defines an inner channel, said push rod being movable within the inner channel of the handle, said handle including a plunger that is coupled to said push rod for decoupling the actuator rod from the push rod, said instrument further including a return spring that biases the plunger into a proximal position. 3. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said push rod includes a plurality of tips, that can be deflected into an open position to allow said locking barrel to be inserted into said locking cavity, and move back into a closed position to capture said locking barrel. 4. The instrument of claim 3, wherein said handle includes a lip that can engage and deflect said tips so that said locking barrel can be pulled out of said locking cavity. 5. The instrument of claim 4, further comprising a plunger that is coupled to said push rod and which can be depressed to move said tips into engagement with said lip so that said locking barrel can be pulled out of said locking cavity. 6. The instrument of claim 5, further comprising a spring that biases said plunger into a proximal position. 7. The instrument of claim 6, further comprising a pin that is attached to said push rod and which can move within a slot of said handle. 8. The instrument of claim 7, further comprising an instrument sleeve that is attached to said handle, wherein said actuator rod extends through said instrument sleeve. 9. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said handle includes an alignment groove. 10. The instrument of claim 9, wherein said alignment groove includes a transverse portion. 11. The instrument of claim 1, further comprising an electrode that is attached to said push rod and electrically connected to said end effector. 12. A surgical instrument, comprising: a handle; a push rod that can move relative to said handle; an actuator rod that is coupled to said push rod; an end effector that is coupled to said actuator rod; and, a plunger that is attached to said push rod and coupled to said handle, said plunger can be depressed so that said actuator rod can be detached from said push rod. 13. The instrument of claim 12, wherein said actuator rod includes a locking barrel that can be located within a locking cavity of said push rod. 14. The instrument of claim 13, wherein said push rod includes a plurality of tips, that can be deflected into an open position to allow said locking barrel to be inserted into said locking cavity, and move back into a closed position to capture said locking barrel. 15. The instrument of claim 14, wherein said handle includes a lip that can engage and deflect said tips when said plunger is depressed so that said locking barrel can be pulled out of said locking cavity. 16. The instrument of claim 12, further comprising a spring that biases said plunger into a proximal position. 17. The instrument of claim 12, further comprising a pin that is attached to said push rod and which can move within a slot of said handle. 18. The instrument of claim 12, wherein said handle includes an alignment groove. 19. The instrument of claim 18, wherein said alignment groove includes a transverse portion. 20. The instrument of claim 12, further comprising an instrument sleeve that is attached to said handle, wherein said actuator rod extends through said instrument sleeve. 21. The instrument of claim 12, further comprising an electrode that is attached to said push rod and electrically connected to said end effector. 22. A surgical instrument, comprising: a handle having an inner channel; a push rod coupled to the inner channel of the handle; an end effector; and an actuator rod that is coupled to the end effector and is detachably coupled to the push rod without using a tool, wherein said push rod is movable relative to the handle to actuate the end effector. 23. The instrument of claim 22, wherein said actuator rod includes a locking barrel that is located within a locking cavity of said push rod. 24. The instrument of claim 23, wherein said push rod includes a plurality of tips that are deflectable into an open position to allow said locking barrel to be inserted into said locking cavity, and movable back into a closed position to capture said locking barrel. 25. The instrument of claim 24, wherein said handle includes a lip that can engage and deflect said tips so that said locking barrel can be pulled out of said locking cavity. 26. The instrument of claim 25, further comprising a plunger that is coupled to said push rod, said plunger being depressible to move said tips into engagement with said lip so that said locking barrel can be pulled out of said locking cavity. 27. The instrument of claim 26, further comprising a spring that biases said plunger into a proximal position. 28. The instrument of claim 27, further comprising a pin that is attached to said push rod and which can move within a slot of said handle. 29. The instrument of claim 28, further comprising an instrument sleeve that is attached to said handle, wherein said actuator rod extends through said instrument sleeve. 