Inductive transfer methods and structures combine, in a single system, at least two of the three functions of transferring power, communicating data, and sensing position with a vehicle on a guideway. A set of conductors is installed on the guideway to inductively couple a multiplicity of diverse signals with a corresponding set of conductors on the vehicle. The vehicle may be moving or stationary, and signals may be coupled in one or both directions. Coupling is effected without direct electrical contact, through a common region or gap, and the structures provide suitable and precise air gap control for the conductors effecting coupling of each signal. In addition, the windings are arranged with a topology and/or symmetry to cancel crosstalk between different signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for transfer of electrical signals with a movable vehicle, the system comprising first and second pathway conductor sets disposed along a way upon which the vehicle travels, first and second vehicle conductor sets carried by the vehicle, said first pathway conductor set and said first vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a first signal, said second pathway conductor set and said second vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a second signal, at least one of said pathway conductor sets and said vehicle conductor sets being arranged with a spatial pattern that at least partially cancels coupling of the first signal with the second pathway conductor set, and coupling of the second signal with the first pathway conductor set. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first signal and said second signal are different ones of a power signal, a communication signal, and a position indicating signal. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said pathway conductor sets and said vehicle conductor sets couple the first and the second signals across a common flux gap. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of said pathway conductor sets and said vehicle conductor sets includes a first winding that carries the first signal, a second winding that carries the second signal, the first and second windings being arranged with a spatial pattern that at least partially cancels coupling of the first signal with the second winding, and coupling of the second signal with the first winding. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the first winding has a spatial period defining periodic alternating flux regions, and the second winding comprises a loop disposed such that currents induced in the second winding as a result of said alternating flux regions are cancelled. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein substantially no net current is induced in the first winding as a result of flux generated by the second winding. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the first signal is a position indicating signal. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the second signal is a communication signal. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first winding generates opposite symmetric fluxes, and the second winding is disposed in said opposite symmetric fluxes such that substantially no net current is induced therein as a result thereof. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein substantially no net current is induced in the first winding as a result of flux generated by the second winding. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the first signal is a power signal. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said first pathway conductor set is a stator of a linear synchronous motor. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the second signal is a communication signal. 14. The system of claim 4, wherein the first winding generates opposite symmetric fluxes, the second winding is disposed in said opposite symmetric fluxes such that substantially no net current is induced therein as a result thereof, and the second winding has a spatial period defining periodic alternating flux regions. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein substantially no net current is induced in the first winding as a result of flux generated by the second winding. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the first signal is a power signal. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the second signal is a position indicating signal. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein said first pathway conductor set is a stator of a linear synchronous motor. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the pathway conductor sets include a first winding that carries the first signal, the vehicle conductor sets include a second winding that carries the second signal, the first and second windings being arranged with a spatial pattern that at least partially cancels coupling of the first signal with the second winding, and coupling of the second signal with the first winding. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the first winding has a spatial period effective to generate periodic alternating flux regions, and the second winding comprises a loop disposed such that currents induced in the second winding as a result of said alternating flux regions are cancelled. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein substantially no net current is induced in the first winding as a result of flux generated by the second winding. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the first signal is a position indicating signal. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the second signal is a communications signal. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the first winding generates opposite symmetric fluxes, and the second winding is disposed in said opposite symmetric fluxes such that substantially no net current is induced therein as a result thereof. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein substantially no net current is induced in the first winding as a result of flux generated by the second winding. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein the first signal is a power signal. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the second signal is a communications signal. 28. The system of claim 19, wherein the first winding generates opposite symmetric fluxes, the second winding is disposed in said opposite symmetric fluxes such that substantially no net current is induced therein as a result thereof, and the second winding has a spatial period effective to generate periodic alternating flux regions. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein substantially no net current is induced in the first winding as a result of flux generated by the second winding. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the first signal is a power signal. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the second signal is a position indicating signal. 32. The system of claim 1, wherein one of said first pathway conductor set and said first vehicle conductor set includes a winding having a spatial period, and one of said second pathway conductor set and said second vehicle conductor set includes a loop oriented along the path having a dimension which is a multiple of said spatial period effective to null-couple with a signal in said winding. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein said winding carries a position indicating signal and said loop carries a communications signal. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein said first pathway conductor set includes a pathway position winding having a spatial period, and said first vehicle conductor set includes a vehicle position winding having the same spatial period and including first and second turns of opposed sense, such that a signal in the vehicle position winding induces a signal of periodic amplitude in the pathway position winding indicative of position of the vehicle on the pathway. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein said pathway conductor sets and said vehicle conductor sets couple the first and the second signals across a common flux gap, a flux pattern formed by a signal in the first conductor sets forms self-canceling currents in the second conductor sets and vice-versa. 36. The system of claim 1, wherein the first vehicle conductor set comprises a figure eight winding, the first pathway conductor set is arranged with respect to the first vehicle conductor set to facilitate determining a position of the vehicle. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the first pathway conductor set comprises a winding having a periodically alternating current sense. 38. The system of claim 37, wherein the first signal is a position indicating signal. 39. The system of claim 37, wherein a signal in the figure eight winding induces in the first pathway conductor set a periodically alternating signal as the vehicle travels along the way. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the periodically alternating signal is indicative of a position of the vehicle on the way. 41. A system for transfer of electrical signals with a movable vehicle, the system comprising first, second and third pathway conductor sets disposed along a way upon which the vehicle travels, first, second and third vehicle conductor sets carried by the vehicle, said first pathway conductor set and said first vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a first signal, said second pathway conductor set and said second vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a second signal, said third pathway conductor set and said third vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a third signal, at least one of said pathway conductor sets and said vehicle conductor sets being arranged with a spatial pattern so as to substantially prevent coupling of the first signal with the second and third conductor sets. 42. The system of claim 41, comprising a circuit board having thereon conductors defining at least one of the pathway conductor sets and the vehicle conductor sets. 43. The system of claim 42, wherein said conductors of said circuit board are formed in formed in said spatial pattern. 44. The system of claim 41, wherein said vehicle is driven by a linear synchronous motor, and said vehicle conductor sets includes windings on a circuit board that fits in registration with a magnet structure of said linear motor so that the windings are aligned with respect to the magnet structure to enhance inductive coupling of signals therein. 45. A vehicular signal transfer system for transferring signals between a pathway and a vehicle moving on the pathway, such system comprising a pathway conductor sets having a pattern of conductors fixedly disposed and extending along the pathway, a vehicle transducer mountable on the vehicle to inductively couple with the pathway conductor sets to transfer electromagnetic energy therebetween, and at least a portion of said pathway conductor sets or said vehicle transducer being formed with a circuit board having a lead pattern of distinct windings arranged with a topology or symmetry effective to inductively couple plural distinct types of signals while avoiding crosstalk therebetween. 46. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein said lead pattern includes a winding having turns of opposed sense disposed adjacent to each other in a direction of travel. 47. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein said pathway conductor sets includes parallel zig-zag conductors. 48. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein said lead pattern includes parallel lines effective for power transmission. 49. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein said lead pattern includes current conducting wires affixed to the circuit board. 50. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein said pathway conductor sets includes a spatially periodic pattern implemented by placing plural identically-patterned circuit boards along the pathway. 51. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein said lead pattern includes a spatially periodic pattern implemented on a board by precision lithography. 52. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein the vehicle includes a linear motor having a magnet member, and the circuit board includes a loop and is shaped to position said loop with respect to the magnet member for enhanced inductive signal coupling with the pathway conductor. 53. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein the pathway forms a flux gap, and the circuit board is carried by the vehicle to move within said flux gap and to position a conductive, loop across flux in the gap. 54. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein the vehicle and pathway form a linear motor having phased power windings fixed along the pathway and a magnet member fixed on the vehicle, and the circuit board includes a loop configured for periodic phased juxtaposition to the power windings to induce position signals. 55. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 54, wherein the loop is a resonant loop. 56. The vehicle signal transfer system of claim 45, wherein the circuit board includes a power bus formed as a plurality of conductive lines, wherein the lines are parallel and spaced apart to minimize eddy current loss. 57. A signal transfer system for a pathway vehicle, such vehicle being of the type powered by a linear motor for moving along a fixed pathway, and wherein the pathway carries a plurality of spatially offset current lines for driving the linear motor, said signal transfer system comprising a transducer carried on the vehicle and having a plurality of conductors for coupling at least two types of signals selected from among power, position and data communication signals, wherein the plurality of conductors form separate windings for coupling each type of signal and the separate windings are spatially disposed for inductively coupling said signals while canceling induced crosstalk signals therebetween. 58. A signal transfer system for coupling signals along a pathway with a vehicle, the vehicle being powered by a linear motor for moving along the pathway, and the pathway includes a current line for driving the linear motor, wherein the signal transfer system includes a circuit board positioned on the pathway or carried on the vehicle and having two or more distinct conductor patterns effective to inductively couple distinct signals between the vehicle and the pathway, the distinct patterns being disposed to generate and intercept mutually canceling fluxes so the distinct signals are non-interfering. 59. The signal transfer system of claim 58, wherein a first circuit board is formed to provide a spatially periodic pattern of conductive leads along the pathway in precise locations, and a second circuit board is formed with an array of windings configured to position the array for inductive coupling to the first circuit board, the array of windings including a first winding pattern coupling a position signal, and a second winding pattern that couples a data signal and null couples the position signal. 60. The signal transfer system of claim 58, wherein a circuit board is carried on the vehicle on the pathway and having a communication winding, being configured with a spatial symmetry to minimize deleterious coupling of signal and power lines. 61. A vehicular signal transfer system for transferring signals between a pathway and a vehicle moving on the pathway, such system comprising a pathway conductor sets having a pattern of conductors fixedly disposed and extending along the pathway, a vehicle transducer mountable on the vehicle to inductively couple with the pathway conductor sets for communication of electrical signal energy therebetween, and said vehicle transducer and said pathway conductor sets each including plural distinct conductors configured to couple to corresponding plural distinct types of signals with said pathway conductor sets by inductive coupling across a common gap. 62. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 61, wherein at least a portion of said pathway conductor sets and said vehicle transducer includes a coupling element containing a paramagnetic or ferromagnetic material. 63. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 61, wherein at least a portion of said pathway conductor sets includes a least part of a stator motor winding of a linear motor. 64. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 61, wherein the pathway conductor sets and vehicle transducer inductively couple at least two types of signals selected from among position-indicating signals, data-commutating signals and power signals by coupling between corresponding sets position-, data-, or power-conductors in said sets and transducer, wherein the corresponding sets have a topology to defeat induction of crosstalk between different types of signals. 65. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 64, wherein the pathway conductor sets and vehicle transducer inductively couple at least power signals and data signals. 66. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 64, wherein the pathway conductor sets and vehicle transducer inductively couple at least power signals and position signals. 67. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 66, wherein power signals and data signals are coupled in different frequency bands, and further including a passband filter for reducing crosstalk. 68. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 67, wherein the pathway conductor includes phase windings for coupling the position signals, and the vehicle transducer includes a figure-of-eight winding and a data loop winding around the figure-of-eight winding to effectively to couple data,signals and position signals across a common region. 69. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 61, wherein at least one of the pathway conductor sets and vehicle transducer is implemented with a pattern of conductive leads on a board. 70. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 69, wherein the board is in the pathway conductor sets and includes a serpentine winding pattern of conductive leads for position signal coupling. 71. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 70, wherein the board is in the vehicle transducer and includes figure-of-eight pattern of conductive leads surrounded by a loop conductor to inductively couple at least position signals and data signals. 72. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 69, wherein the system couples position, data and power and prevents cross-coupling of different signals by arranging topology and dimensions of conductors to be non-interfering. 73. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 72, wherein signals of different type are of different frequency, and further comprising at least one blocking circuit elements for enhanced separation or processing of induced signals. 74. A vehicular signal transfer system for transferring signals between a pathway and a vehicle moving on the pathway, such system comprising a pathway conductor sets having a pattern of conductors fixedly disposed and extending along the pathway, a vehicle transducer mountable on the vehicle to inductively couple with the pathway conductor sets for communication of electrical signal energy therebetween, and said vehicle transducer and said pathway conductor sets each including plural distinct conductors configured to couple to corresponding plural distinct types of signals with said pathway conductor sets by inductive coupling across a common gap, and at least one of said assemblies being formed as a circuit board. 75. The vehicular signal transfer system of claim 74, wherein the board interfits with magnetic pole elements of a linear motor to define flux regions of inductive coupling between the a pathway conductor sets and vehicle transducer. 76. A system for transfer of electrical signals with a movable vehicle, the system comprising first, second and third pathway conductor sets disposed along a way upon which the vehicle travels, first, second and third vehicle conductor sets carried by the vehicle, said first pathway conductor set and said first vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a first signal, said second pathway conductor set and said second vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a second signal, said third pathway conductor set and said third vehicle conductor set being inductively coupled with respect to a third signal, at least one of said pathway conductor sets and said vehicle conductor sets being arranged with a spatial pattern so as to substantially prevent coupling of at least one of the first, second and third signals with the second and third conductor sets, the first and third conductor sets, and first and second conductor sets, respectively. 