The invention is directed to a system and method for releasably holding a surgical instrument (14), such as an endoscopic instrument configured for delivery through a small percutaneous penetration in a patient. The instrument comprises an elongate shaft (100) with a pair of mounting pins (116) laterally extending from the shaft between its proximal and distal ends. An instrument holder comprises a support having a central bore (202) and an axially extending slot (204) for receiving the instrument shaft and the mounting pins. A pair of locking slots (206) are cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the mounting pins can be rotated within the locking slots. The instrument support further includes a latch assembly for automatically locking the mounting pins within the locking slots to releasably couple the instrument to the instrument holder. With this twist-lock motion, the surgeon can rapidly engage and disengage various instruments from the holder during a surgical procedure, such as open surgery, laparoscopy or thoracoscopy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical method comprising: releasably coupling a surgical instrument to an instrument holder, the surgical instrument comprising an elongate shaft with proximal and distal ends, a longitudinal axis therebetween, and an end effector on the distal end; locking the instrument to the instrument holder; coupling a drive assembly of a manipulator to the surgical instrument with the holder; manipulating the instrument holder and the surgical instrument with the manipulator; and transferring at least two motion actuations from the drive assembly to the surgical instrument with the holder, the motion actuations including rotation of the instrument about the longitudinal axis and actuation of the end effector. 2. The surgical method of claim 1 further comprising rotating the instrument about the instrument axis with a first controllable motor of the drive assembly, actuating the end effector on the instrument with a second controllable motor of the drive assembly, axially translating the instrument with a third controllable motor of the drive assembly, and transferring motion actuation from the third motor to the instrument with the instrument holder. 3. The surgical method of claim 1 further comprising transferring electrical signals between the manipulator assembly and the instrument with one or more electrical feed-throughs of the instrument holder. 4. The surgical system of claim 1 further comprising remotely controlling the surgical instrument with an input control device located remotely from said surgical instrument using a servomechanism coupling the instrument holder and the input control device. 5. A method for performing a surgical procedure, the method comprising: releasably coupling an instrument holder to a surgical instrument, the surgical instrument comprising a proximal end, a distal end, a longitudinal axis therebetween, and an end effector disposed at the distal end; and manipulating the instrument holder and surgical instrument with a manipulator assembly to transfer at least two motions to the surgical instrument including spinning the surgical instrument about the longitudinal axis and actuating the end effector. 6. The method of claim 5 comprising axially translating the instrument along the longitudinal axis. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein releasably coupling comprises engaging a coupling interface of the instrument holder with a mounting interface of the surgical instrument. 8. The method of claim 5 comprising locking the surgical instrument to the instrument holder. 9. The method of claim 5 comprising mechanically coupling a drive assembly to the surgical instrument. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein manipulating comprises actuating the drive assembly. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein actuating comprises activating an input device that is remote from the surgical instrument. 12. The method of claim 5 comprising removing the surgical instrument from the instrument holder and replacing the surgical instrument with a second surgical instrument during a surgical procedure. 13. The method of claim 5 wherein the surgical instrument comprises a needle driver, electrocautery dissector, clamp, stapler, grasper, scissors, or needle holder. 