A system and method for planarizing a plurality of semiconductor wafers is provided. The method includes the steps of processing each wafer along the same process path using at least two polishing stations to each partially planarize the wafers. The system includes an improved process path exchanging a detachable wafer carrying head with spindles at each processing point and conveying the detached wafer carrying heads in a rotary index table between processing points. The system also provides for improved polishing accuracy using linear polishers having pneumatically adjustable belt tensioning and aligning capabilities.
Claims We claim: 1. A wafer polishing station for performing chemical mechanical planarization of a semiconductor wafer using an abrasive polishing agent, the wafer polishing station comprising: a polishing member movable in a linear direction with respect to a surface of the semiconductor wafer; a polishing member drive assembly for moving the polishing member in the linear direction having a drive roller and an idle roller, the drive roller rotatably connected to a drive motor; a pneumatic steering and tension adjustment mechanism for controlling operation of the polishing member; and a pair of deflection rollers positioned under the polishing member and between the drive roller and idle roller, the deflection rollers each having a width greater than a width of the polishing member. 2. The wafer polishing station of claim 1 further comprising a platen assembly having a fluid manifold connected to a disk platen, the platen assembly positioned under the polishing member and between the drive and idle rollers. 3. The wafer polishing station of claim 2 wherein the platen assembly is movably mounted on a platen height adjuster having a plurality of platen lifters. 4. The wafer polishing station of claim 3 wherein the disk platen on the platen assembly further comprises a plurality of distribution vents for providing a fluid received from the fluid manifold to a bottom portion of the polishing member. 5. The wafer polishing station of claim 4 further comprising a plurality of pre-wetting nozzles arranged along at least one edge of the disk platen assembly perpendicular to a direction of motion of the polishing member, the pre-wetting nozzles receiving a fluid from a pre-wetting manifold in the disk platen assembly, whereby the pre-wetting nozzles provide a fluid to the bottom portion of the polishing member and help to reduce friction at the edge of the disk platen assembly. 6. The wafer polishing station of claim 1 wherein the pneumatic steering and tension adjustment mechanism comprises: first and second cylinder assemblies, the cylinder assemblies each having a first end pivotally attached to an axle of the idle roller on opposite ends of the idle roller and the cylinder assemblies each having a second end connected to a frame of the primary wafer polisher; and a plurality of sensors electrically connected to the wafer polishing station, the first and second cylinder assemblies responsive to signals generated by the plurality of sensors to control a tension and alignment of the polishing member. 7. The wafer polishing station of claim 6, wherein the plurality of sensors comprises a load cell positioned on each of the first and second cylinder assemblies, the load cells configured to detect a tension on the polishing member. 8. The wafer polishing station of claim 7 wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises an alignment sensor positioned over an edge of the polishing member, the alignment sensor producing a signal in response to an alignment of the polishing member on the idle and drive rollers. 9. The wafer polishing station of claim 6, wherein the pneumatic steering and tension adjustment mechanism further comprises a pair of slide bars, wherein a first slide bar is pivotally attached at a first end to an end of the axle of the idle roller and attached at a second end to the first cylinder assembly, and wherein the second slide bar is pivotally attached at a first end to an opposite end of the axle of the idle roller and at a second end to the second cylinder assembly. 10. The wafer polishing station of claim 9, wherein the axle of the idle roller includes a slot on each end that receives the slide bar and is connected to the slide bar at a rotatable junction, and wherein a gap between the slot and the slide bar provides a clearance for pivotal movement of the end of the idle axle about the rotatable junction. 11. The wafer polishing station of claim 10, wherein the rotatable junction is a pin that passes through the slide bar and the end of the idle axle. 12. A wafer polishing station for performing chemical mechanical planarization of a semiconductor wafer using an abrasive polishing agent, the wafer polishing station comprising: a polishing member movable in a linear-direction with respect to a surface of the semiconductor wafer; a polishing member drive assembly for moving the polishing member in the linear direction having a drive roller and an idle roller, the drive roller rotatably connected to a drive motor; a steering and tension adjustment mechanism for controlling operation of the polishing member; and a pair of deflection rollers positioned under the polishing member and between the drive roller and idle roller, the deflection rollers each having a width greater than a width of the polishing member. 13. The wafer polishing station of claim 12 further comprising a platen assembly having a fluid manifold connected to a disk platen, the platen assembly positioned under the polishing member and between the drive and idle rollers. 14. The wafer polishing station of claim 13 wherein the platen assembly is movably mounted on a platen height adjuster having a plurality of platen lifters. 15. The wafer polishing station of claim 14 wherein the disk platen on the platen assembly further comprises a plurality of distribution vents for providing a fluid received from the fluid manifold to a bottom portion of the polishing member. 16. The wafer polishing station of claim 15 further comprising a plurality of pre-wetting nozzles arranged along at least one edge of the disk platen assembly perpendicular to a direction of motion of the polishing member, the pre-wetting nozzles receiving a fluid from a pre-wetting manifold in the disk platen assembly, whereby the pre-wetting nozzles provide a fluid to the bottom portion of the polishing member and help to reduce friction at the edge of the disk platen assembly. 17. The wafer polishing station of claim 12, wherein the steering and tension adjustment mechanism comprises a plurality of sensors electrically connected to the wafer polishing station, whereby the plurality of sensors generate signals to control a tension and alignment of the polishing member. 18. The wafer polishing station of claim 17, wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises a load cell, the load cells configured to detect a tension on the polishing member. 19. The wafer polishing station of claim 18 wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises an alignment sensor positioned over an edge of the polishing member, the alignment sensor producing a signal in response to an alignment of the polishing member on the idle and drive rollers. 