Apparatus for spinning a work piece such as a semiconductor wafer includes a work piece platform that is configured to be rotated about a central axis. Arrayed about the periphery of the platform is a plurality of spaced apart, symmetrically positioned work piece supports. Each of the supports includes a resilient bumper that serves both to support the work piece and as a friction brake to retard slippage of the work piece relative to the platform when the platform and work piece are rotating, and especially when the platform is accelerating or decelerating. Also arrayed about the periphery of the work piece platform is a plurality of work piece gripper assemblies configured to center the work piece in contact with the work piece supports when the platform is rotating. The gripper assemblies include a gripper finger that is configured to pivot about a pivot axis from a non work piece gripping position to a work piece gripping position in response to centrifugal force generated by the rotation of the platform. In the work piece gripping position the gripper finger contacts the edge of the work piece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for spinning a work piece comprising: a work piece platform capable of rotating in a plane about an axis; a drive motor coupled to the platform and capable of causing the platform to rotate about the axis; a plurality of work piece grippers positioned about the periphery of the platform, each of the grippers comprising a gripper finger capable of pivoting about a pivot axis from a non work piece gripping position, if the platform is stationary, to a work piece gripping position in response to rotation of the platform; and a plurality of work piece support posts positioned about the periphery of the platform, each of the support posts comprising a solid post of a first material having a tapered upper extremity, and a protrusion of a second material for supporting a workpiece positioned about the solid post, wherein the second material is an elastomeric material with a high friction coefficient. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the work piece grippers comprises: a gripper finger mount attached to the work piece platform; and a gripper finger mount pin engaged with the gripper finger mount and providing the pivot axis about which the gripper finger is capable of pivoting. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the gripper finger comprises a chemically resistant material having a hole therethrough and the gripper finger mount pin passes through the hole. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the gripper finger is configured to have a center of gravity offset from the hole through which the gripper finger mount pin passes to cause the gripper finger to rotate to the non work piece gripping position when the platform is stationary and to rotate to the work piece gripping position when the platform is rotating. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the center of gravity of the gripper finger is offset from the hole through which the gripper finger mount pin passes in the direction away from the axis and toward the plane of the platform. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the gripper finger is configured to have a projection, configured and positioned to prevent the work piece from moving upwardly, at one extremity and a counter weight at the opposite extremity. 7. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the gripper finger mount comprises two projections, the gripper finger mount pin extends between the two projections, and the gripper finger is confined between the two projections. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the gripper finger comprises a raised portion on an edge thereof to provide a bearing surface of limited area to reduce friction between the gripper finger and the projections. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the friction brake comprises a resilient bumper. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the resilient bumper comprises an O-ring formed of a pure elastomeric material. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the bumper is formed of a perfluorinated elastomeric material. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein each of the work piece support posts comprises a solid central post having a tapered upper surface and the O-ring is positioned around the solid post. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the work piece platform comprises a substantially planar disk of chemically resistant material having a plurality of symmetrically positioned openings formed therethrough. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a work piece presence sensor positioned to detect the presence of a work piece on the work piece support posts. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the work piece presence sensor comprises a sensor capable of outputting a signal responsive to the presence of a work piece. 16. An apparatus for spinning a work piece comprising: a work piece platform capable of rotating in a plane about an axis; a plurality of work piece support posts positioned about the periphery of the work piece platform, each of the support posts comprising a solid post having a tapered upper extremity and an elastomeric protrusion from the solid post of a first material having a tapered upper extremity, and a protrusion of second material for supporting a workpiece positioned about the solid post, wherein the second material is an elastomeric material with a high friction coefficient; a plurality of work piece grippers positioned about the periphery of the work piece platform, each of the grippers comprising a gripping finger mounted to pivot into a work piece gripping position in response to rotation of the work piece platform; a work piece presence sensor capable of detecting the presence of a work piece and of generating a signal responsive to the presence; and a controller coupled to receive the signal and capable of causing the work piece platform to rotate in response to the signal. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the gripping finger comprises: a body having a work piece contacting surface at one extremity and a counter weight at an opposite extremity; and a hole through the body to accommodate a pivot pin about which the body can pivot, the hole offset from the center of gravity of the body. 18. An apparatus for spinning a work piece comprising: a work piece platform capable of rotating in a plane about an axis; a plurality of work piece support posts positioned about the periphery of the work piece platform, each of the support posts comprising a solid post having a tapered upper extremity and an elastomeric protrusion from the solid post, wherein the elastomeric protrusion comprises an O-ring positioned about the solid post; a plurality of work piece grippers positioned about the periphery of the work piece platform, each of the grippers comprising a gripping finger mounted to pivot into a work piece gripping position in response to rotation of the work piece platform; a work piece presence sensor capable of detecting the presence of a work piece and of generating a signal responsive to the presence; and a controller coupled to receive the signal and capable of causing the work piece platform to rotate in response to the signal. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the work piece platform, the solid posts and the work piece grippers all comprise a chemically resistant, dimensionally stable material. 20. An apparatus for spinning a work piece comprising: a work piece platform capable of rotating in a plane about an axis; a drive motor coupled to the platform and capable of causing the platform to rotate about the axis; a plurality of support posts positioned about the periphery of the work piece platform, each of the support posts comprising a solid post of a first material having a tapered upper extremity, and a protrusion of a second material for supporting a workpiece positioned about the solid post, wherein the second material is an elastomeric material with a high friction coefficient; and a plurality of work piece grippers positioned about the periphery of the work piece platform, each of the grippers comprising: a gripper mounting block secured to the work piece platform; a work piece gripper finger having a hole therethrough and configured to have a contacting surface at one extremity for contacting an edge of a work piece and a counter weight at an opposite extremity, the center of gravity of the gripper finger offset from the hole; a pivot pin passing through a portion of the gripper mounting block and through the hole in the gripper finger and providing an axis about which the gripper finger can pivot. 21. A method for spinning a work piece comprising the steps of: positioning a work piece on a plurality of support posts arrayed about the periphery of a work piece platform, each of said support posts comprising a solid post of a first material having a tapered upper extremity, and a protrusion of a second material for supporting a workpiece positioned about the solid post, wherein the second material is an elastomeric material with a high friction coefficient; initiating rotation of the work piece platform; and contacting the edges of the work piece with a plurality of centrifugally activated work piece centering fingers. 22. the method of claim 21 further comprising the step of rotating the work piece platform at a first rotation speed and then at a second rotational speed higher than the first rotational speed. 23. The method of claim 21 wherein the step of positioning comprises robotically positioning a work piece on the plurality of frictional bumpers. 24. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of sensing the presence of a work piece on the plurality of frictional bumpers. 