A method and system for the manufacture of an assembly, such an automobile body-in-white or sub-assembly, that comprises a plurality of components is disclosed. Selected from the plurality of components are components which can form an initial rigid structure. These selected components are then positioned relative to each other with reference to at least one reference point on at least one of the selected components. These selected components are then affixed to one another, by, for example, spot welds to form the initial structure. The non-selected components are then positioned relative to the same reference point and attached to either the initial structure or a component that was affixed in an earlier process. An assembly, such as an automobile body-in-white, will have reduced manufacturing tolerances when compared to the body-in-white manufactured in a conventional manner.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of manufacturing an assembly from a plurality of components comprising: selecting a reference point on at least one of said plurality of components; forming from a selected portion of said plurality of components a substantially rigid structure having said reference point; positioning non-selected components of said plurality of components with reference to said reference point of said rigid structure; and affixing said non-selected components to at least one of said rigid structure and another of said non-selected components to form said assembly. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said assembly is a sub-assembly. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said sub-assembly is a vehicle sub-assembly. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said non-selected components comprise a plurality of groups of non-selected components, each group of non-selected components being positioned and affixed to said substantially rigid structure at one of a plurality of sequentially arranged assembly stations. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said reference point is a first reference point and wherein said forming of said substantially rigid structure comprises: selecting a second reference point, said second reference point being one of said first reference point and another reference point, on at least one of said selected portion of said plurality of components; positioning said selected portion of said plurality of components relative to said second reference point; affixing said selected portion of said plurality of components to form said substantially rigid structure. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: forming a plurality of rigid structures from said non-selected components; referencing from said reference point a desired position for each of said plurality of rigid structures; and affixing said plurality of rigid structures at said desired position for each of said plurality of rigid structures. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising prior to said forming said substantially rigid structure: designing said assembly to be manufactured from said plurality of components such that said selected portion of said plurality of components, once assembled, form said substantially rigid structure. 8. The method of manufacturing of claim 1, wherein said forming of said substantially rigid structure includes positioning said components of said selected portion of said plurality of components spatially with reference to said reference point. 9. The method of manufacturing of claim 1, wherein said substantially rigid structure is a first substantially rigid structure and further comprising: identifying and forming a sub-group from said non-selected components; forming from said sub-group a second substantially rigid structure; positioning said second substantially rigid structure relative to said reference point; and affixing said second substantially rigid structure to said first substantially rigid structure. 10. The method of manufacturing of claim 9 wherein said forming of said second substantially rigid structure comprises: positioning, spatially, members of said sub-group relative to a second reference point of at least one of said members of said sub-group; and affixing said members of said sub-group to form said second rigid structure. 11. The method of manufacturing of claim 1, wherein said substantially rigid structure is an initial substantially rigid structure and further comprising: selecting an additional reference point on at least one component of a portion of components from said non-selected components; forming an additional substantially rigid structure from said portion of components; positioning said additional substantially rigid structure relative to said reference point of said initial substantially rigid structure; and affixing said additional substantially rigid structure to said initial substantially rigid structure. 12. The method of manufacturing of claim 11 wherein said forming of said additional substantially rigid structure comprises: positioning components from said portion of components relative to said additional reference point; affixing said components from said portion of components to form said additional substantially rigid structure. 13. A method of manufacturing an assembly, wherein said assembly is comprised of a plurality of components, said method comprising: first forming, from a subset of said plurality of components, a substantially rigid closed structure; selecting a reference point on said rigid closed structure; referencing from said reference point a desired position for each remaining component of said plurality of components; and affixing said each remaining component to said rigid closed structure. 