An integrated intra-bay transfer, storage and delivery system is provided for moving an article between a conveyor and a station such as a work station. The system includes a transfer assembly which includes a lift mechanism and a displacement mechanism. The transfer assembly transfers the article between the conveyor system and a buffer or storage station for storage of the article. A delivery robot transfers the article between the buffer or storage station and a work station for delivery to the station. The robot includes a vertical movement mechanism and a horizontal movement mechanism. The robot also includes an arm that is adapted to grip the article, particularly an article of a standard configuration having a mushroom-shaped handle on top. The arm engages the handle and lifts the article or transport pod from the storage station to a load port of the work station. In one embodiment, the arm includes a C-shaped adaptation that passively engages the handle from a side thereof. In other embodiments, the arm includes an actuator coupled to an assembly that actively grips the handle from above. Advantages of the invention include the ability to safely move the transport pod from a elevated storage station to the lower placed storage stations or load ports of a work station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated system for transferring an article comprising: a conveyor for moving the article along a conveyor path; an elevator system having a lift device configured to engage the article carried by said conveyor and to raise the article above said conveyor, said lift device being movable between a stand-by position allowing movement of articles along said conveyor path past said lift device, and an actuated position with said lift device holding the article above said conveyor; a storage support assembly for supporting the article within a buffer zone; a displacement mechanism for moving the article between said actuated position of said lift device and said storage support assembly; a work station support assembly for supporting the article within a work station zone proximate to a work station; a transfer arm configured to move in a first direction and a second direction, said movement controlled by a first actuator and second actuator respectively; a gripper mounted on said transfer arm and adapted to engage the article; and a controller for controlling said first and second actuators, whereby selective movement of said transfer arm within said first and second directions transfers the article between said storage support assembly and said work station support assembly. 2. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor is adapted to be mounted to a ceiling and positioned in front of said work station. 3. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 wherein said conveyor is adapted to be mounted to a ceiling and positioned above said work station. 4. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 wherein said displacement mechanism is located on one of said storage support assembly and said elevator system. 5. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 wherein said first direction is a substantially horizontal position substantially parallel to said conveyor path, and said second direction is a substantially vertical direction. 6. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 wherein at least one of said first and second actuators are electric servo motors. 7. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 wherein at least one of said first and second actuators are electric step motors. 8. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 wherein said gripper is adapted to actively engage the article. 9. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 1 further comprising: a mounting structure for mounting said transport system to a ceiling; a transfer arm frame movably mounted on said mounting structure, said transfer arm frame movable in said first direction; and a transfer arm sled movably mounted on said transfer arm frame, said transfer arm sled movable in said second direction; wherein said transfer arm further is mounted on said transfer arm sled. 10. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 9 further comprising: a transfer arm frame belt operably connected to said transfer arm frame; a transfer arm frame belt actuator mounted on said mounting structure for moving said transfer arm frame belt and said transfer arm frame in said first direction. 11. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 9 wherein said second actuator is mounted on said transfer arm sled and is operably coupled to said transfer arm by a cable. 12. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 9 wherein said transfer arm further comprises: a fixed member mounted on said transfer arm sled; and a movable member movably mounted on said fixed member, said movable member movable in a third direction substantially perpendicular to said first and second directions. 13. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 9 further comprising a transfer arm frame actuator mounted on said transfer arm frame for moving said transfer arm frame in said first direction. 14. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 13 further comprising: a toothed drive wheel operably driven by said transfer frame actuator; and a toothed guide mounted on said mounting structure, said toothed guide operably engaging said toothed drive wheel. 15. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 13 further comprising: a drive wheel operably driven by said transfer frame actuator; and a flexible guide mounted on said mounting structure, said flexible guide operably engaging said drive wheel. 16. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 13 further comprising: a drive wheel operably driven by said transfer frame actuator; and a bearing surface located on said mounting structure, said drive wheel operably and frictionally engaging said bearing surface. 17. An integrated system for transferring an article comprising: a conveyor path; a conveyor for moving the article along said conveyor path; an elevator system having a lift device configured to engage the article carried by said conveyor and raise the article above said conveyor, said lift device being movable between a stand-by position with said lift device positioned for the movement of articles past said lift device along the conveyor, and an actuated position with said lift device holding the article above the conveyor; and a buffer zone; a storage support assembly for supporting the article within a buffer zone; a displacement mechanism for moving the article between one said actuated position of said lift device and a respective said storage support assembly; a work station zone proximate to a work station; a work station support assembly for supporting the article within said work station zone; a travel zone; a transfer arm configured to move in a first direction and a second direction within said travel zone, said movement controlled by a first actuator and second actuator respectively; a gripper mounted on said transfer arm and adapted to engage the article; and a controller for controlling said first and second actuators, whereby selective movement of said transfer arm within said first and second directions transfers the article between said buffer zone and said work station zone. 18. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 17 wherein said travel zone extends in said first direction. 19. An integrated system for transferring an article according to claim 17 wherein said first direction is a substantially horizontal position substantially parallel to said conveyor path, and said second direction is a substantially vertical direction. 