A SCARA type robot with counterbalanced arms and tilting base. This apparatus enables accurate planar movement of a probe. Weak or flexible foundations or footings do not affect positioning accuracy of the probe. Positioning accuracy, relative to the movement plane, of a probe is unaffected by positions of the arms. At any angle of the probe movement plane the counterbalanced arms allow the same size drive motors, torque transmission devices, and drive electronics. These features make the invention very useful for on-site or portable near-field testing of antennas. A manipulator may be used in place of the probe. Most of the benefits will be retained if load variations on the manipulator are kept small.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot for accurate planar movement of an end effector comprising: a base rotary positioner; said base rotary positioner supports and rotates a base arm; a second rotary positioner mounted on the distal end of said base arm, said second rotary positioner is oriented such that its axis of rotation is parallel to axis of rotation of said base rotary positioner; said second rotary positioner supports and rotates a second arm relative to said base arm; said second arm supports an end effector on distal end of said second arm; said second arm supports a counterweight such that said second arm and all its attachments are substantially balanced about rotation axis of said second rotary positioner; said base arm supports a counterweight such that said base arm and all its attachments are substantially balanced about rotation axis of said base rotary positioner; and, a tilt mechanism beneath the base rotary positioner wherein the tilt mechanism may tilt the robot from a horizontal plane to a vertical plane. 2. The robot of claim 1 further including a base supporting said base rotary positioner. 3. The robot of claim 2 further including a tilt mechanism is provided between said base and said base rotary positioner. 4. The robot of claim 1 further including a tip rotary positioner located on distal end of said second arm, said tip rotary positioner rotates said end effector. 5. The robot of claim 1 further including: a base pulley and shaft located concentric with rotation axis of said base rotary positioner, shaft of said base pulley and shaft extends through said base rotary positioner and is rigidly rotationally connected to non-rotating portion of said base rotary positioner or the mounting surface for said base rotary positioner; an intermediate pulley set and shaft has a first pulley and a second pulley, said intermediate pulley set and shaft is located concentric with rotation axis of said second rotary positioner, said intermediate pulley set and shaft is free to rotate; a base belt placed over pulley of said base pulley and shaft and over said first pulley of said intermediate pulley set and shaft, said first belt and said pulleys have means to prevent slippage between themselves; a tip pulley and shaft located concentric with rotation axis of said end effector, said tip pulley and shaft is rigidly rotationally connected to said end effector, said tip pulley and shaft assembly is free to rotate relative to said second arm; a second belt placed over pulley of said tip pulley and shaft and over said second pulley of said intermediate pulley and shaft, said second belt and said pulleys have means to prevent slippage between themselves; said pulleys are of such diameters that rotation of said first or second arms does not change the angular orientation between said end effector and mounting surface of said base rotary positioner. 6. The robot of claim 5 further including: a rotator connected to shaft of said base pulley and shaft and mounted to non-rotating portion or mounting surface for said base positioner whereby operation of said rotator causes rotation of said base pulley and shaft and therefore causes rotation of said end effector. 7. A robot for accurate planar movement of an end effector comprising: a base rotary means that supports and rotates a base arm to a specified position or speed; a second rotary means mounted on the distal end of said base arm, said second rotary means is oriented such that its axis of rotation is parallel to axis of rotation of said base rotary means; said second rotary means supports and rotates a second arm relative to said base arm to a specified position or speed; said second arm supports an end effector on distal end of said second arm; said second arm supports a counterweight such that said second arm and all its attachments are substantially balanced about rotation axis of said second rotary means; said base arm supports a counterweight such that said base arm and all its attachments are substantially balanced about rotation axis of said base rotary means. 8. The robot of claim 7 further including a base supporting said base rotary means. 9. The robot of claim 8 further including a tilting means located between said base and said base rotary means. 10. The robot of claim 7 further including a tip rotary means located on distal end of said second arm, said tip rotary mean rotates said end effector to a specified position or speed. 11. The robot of claim 7 further including: a base pulley and shaft located concentric with rotation axis of said base rotary means, shaft of said base pulley and shaft is rotationally connected to non-rotation portion of said base rotary means or mounting surface for said base rotary means; an intermediate pulley set and shaft has a first pulley and a second pulley, said intermediate pulley set and shaft is located concentric with rotation axis of said second rotary means, said intermediate pulley set and shaft is free to rotate; a base belt placed over pulley of said base pulley and shaft and over said first pulley of said intermediate pulley set and shaft, said first belt and said pulleys have means to prevent slippage between themselves; a tip pulley and shaft located concentric with rotation axis of said end effector, said tip pulley and shaft is rigidly rotationally connected to said end effector, said tip pulley and shaft assembly is free to rotate relative to said second arm; a second belt placed over pulley of said tip pulley and shaft and over said second pulley of said intermediate pulley and shaft, said second belt and said pulleys have means to prevent slippage between themselves; said pulleys are of such diameters that rotation of said first or second arms does not change the angular orientation between said end effector and mounting surface for said base rotary means. 12. The robot of claim 11 further including: a rotation means connected to shaft of said base pulley and shaft and mounted to non-rotating portion of said base rotary means or mounting surface for said base positioner whereby operation of said rotator means causes rotation of said base pulley and shaft and therefore causes rotation of said end effector. 