The present invention provides systems, methods and apparatus for high temperature (at least about 500-800.degree. C.) processing of semiconductor wafers. The systems, methods and apparatus of the present invention allow multiple process steps to be performed in situ in the same chamber to reduce total processing time and to ensure high quality processing for high aspect ratio devices. Performing multiple process steps in the same chamber also increases the control of the process parameters and reduces device damage. In particular, the present invention can provide high temperature deposition, heating and efficient cleaning for forming dielectric films having thickness uniformity, good gap fill capability, high density, low moisture, and other desired characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system comprising: a vacuum chamber, said vacuum chamber operable at a pressure between about 10-760 torr; a gas distribution manifold, located within said housing, to introduce reactive gases into said vacuum chamber; a ceramic heater to hold a wafer, said ceramic heater heating to a temperature of greater than about 500.degree. C.; means for causing deposition of an insulating layer comprising undoped silicate glass (USG) at said temperature of greater than about 500.degree. C. on said wafer from a reaction of silicon and oxygen in said reactive gases introduced into said vacuum chamber from said gas distribution manifold. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a processor to control a source distribution system coupled to said gas distribution manifold, said ceramic heater, said vacuum system and said depositing means; and a memory coupled to said processor and storing a program for directing the operation of said system, said program including a first set of instructions to introduce said reactive gases during a first time period to deposit said USG film on said wafer, said wafer including trenches having an aspect ratio of at least about 2.5:1, said USG film depositing without voids over said trenches. 3. A substrate processing system comprising: a processing chamber operable at a pressure between about 10-760 torr; a gas delivery system configured to deliver process gases to the processing chamber; a heater configured to support a substrate; a controller configured to control the gas delivery system and the heater; and a memory, coupled to the controller, comprising a computer-readable medium having a computer-readable program embodied therein for directing operation of the substrate processing system, the computer-readable program including: a first set of computer instructions for controlling the heater to raise the heater to a temperature of greater than about 500.degree. C.; and a second set of computer instructions for controlling the gas delivery system introducing oxygen and silicon which comprise TEOS and O.sub.3 into the processing chamber to deposit an oxide film on the substrate on the heater at the temperature filling at least one gap in the substrate. 4. The substrate processing system of claim 3 wherein the temperature of the heater is at least about 600.degree. C. 5. The substrate processing system of claim 3 wherein the temperature of the heater is at least about 650.degree. C. 6. The substrate processing system of claim 3 wherein the temperature of the heater is at least about 750.degree. C. 7. The substrate processing system of claim 3 wherein the at least one gap has an aspect ratio of at least about 2.5:1. 8. The substrate processing system of claim 7 wherein the at least one gap is a trench used for isolation. 9. The substrate processing system of claim 8 wherein the at least one gap has a depth of less than about 0.35 .mu.m. 10. The substrate processing system of claim 8 wherein the oxide deposited in the gap is a filling oxide. 11. The substrate processing system of claim 10 wherein the oxide is a film having no voids after a heating step at about 1000.degree. C. 12. The substrate processing system of claim 8 wherein the gap has an aspect ratio of at least about 3:1 and the oxide film has no voids. 13. The substrate processing system of claim 8 wherein the computer-readable program further includes: a third set of computer instructions for controlling the gas delivery system to introduce oxygen, silicon, and dopants into the processing chamber to deposit a doped oxide film on the at leak one gap prior to depositing the oxide. 14. The substrate processing system of claim 13 wherein the computer-readable program further includes: a fourth set of computer instructions for removing the doped oxide film from the at least one gap after dopants from the doped oxide film are driven into the substrate and prior to depositing the oxide. 15. The substrate processing system of claim 14 wherein the dopants are comprised of boron for PMOS transistor. 16. The substrate processing system of claim 15 wherein the boron is from TEB. 17. The substrate processing system of claim 14 wherein the dopants are comprised of phosphorus for NMOS transistor. 18. The substrate processing system of claim 17 wherein the phosphorus is from TEPO. 