An optical target (1) including a positioning sub target (2) for determining position, and a plurality of identifying sub targets (3) for identifying one optical target (1) from another, each of which plurality of identifying sub targets (3) is a different color from the positioning sub target (2).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical target including: a positioning sub target for determining position of such optical target, and a plurality of identifying sub targets for identifying one optical target from another, each of said plurality of identifying sub targets is a different colour from the positioning sub target and at least one of said positioning sub target and said plurality of identifying sub targets includes a retro-reflective material. 2. A target according to claim 1, wherein the positioning sub target is substantially circular. 3. A target according to claim 1, wherein the identifying sub targets are each substantially circular. 4. A target according to claim 3, wherein the identifying sub targets are locatable substantially equi-spaced with respect to one another and substantially co-linear with the positioning sub target. 5. A target according to claim 4, including colour filters superimposed upon said identifying sub targets to provide the various colours characterising the identifying sub targets. 6. A target according to claim 5, wherein there is a first filter colour and a second filter colour. 7. A target according to claim 6, wherein the first filter colour is green and the second filter colour is red. 8. A target according to claim 7, having one said positioning sub target and three said identifying sub targets comprising the optical target. 9. Apparatus for automatically identifying optical targets according to claim 1, including light source means operable to project light onto said positioning and identifying sub targets. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the lights source means includes at least a first light source and a second light source, each of which is a circular array of light emitting diodes. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the first light source has a circular array of green light emitting diodes and wherein the second light source has a circular array of red light emitting diodes. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11, including switching means to continuously switch between said first and second light sources. 13. Apparatus according to claim 9, including measurement means operable to image light reflected from the positioning and identifying sub targets when light is projected thereon from the first light source means. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the measurement means includes a carrier, at least two imaging devices, each attachable to the carrier, configurable to image the optical target, and each having one of the light sources attachable thereto, a processor in operative association with the imaging devices, and communication links between the imaging devices and the processor for transmitting output signals indicative of the light reflected by the positioning and identifying sub targets. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, wherein each of the imaging devices is a metrology sensor operable to create digitisable images. 16. Apparatus according to claim 15, having three optical targets. 17. A method for utilising the apparatus of claim 9, including the steps of projecting light from light source means, including at least two light sources, each of which is one of two different colours, onto at least one optical target, which optical target includes a positioning sub target and a plurality of identifying sub targets, which identifying sub targets include colours corresponding to the colours of the light sources, digitally imaging onto measurement means a distribution of light reflected from the optical target, which reflected light is representable as bright pixels on at least two imaging devices forming part of the measurement means, transmitting signals indicative of the distribution of light from the at least two imaging devices means to a processor, and processing the signals, thereby to automatically identify the optical target. 18. A method according to claim 17, in which the projection of light from the light sources includes operating switching means at a desired switching rate so as to continuously switch power between said light sources. 19. A method according to claim 18, in which the processing of signals includes the steps, for each of the optical targets, of assigning each of the two light source colours a logic value so as to correspondingly assign a pixel imaged by the measurement means with a binary value, decoding the signals from each of the two imaging devices into a first and a second array of binary values, which first and second arrays of binary values relate to the first and second imaging devices respectively, and matching elements of the first array with those of the second array so as to identify optical targets between first and second imaging devices. 20. A target according to claim 1, wherein the positioning sub target is comprised of a retro-reflective material. 21. A target according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the identifying sub targets is comprised of a retro-reflective material. 22. A target according to claim 1, wherein the positioning sub target and at least one of the identifying sub targets are both comprised of a retro-reflective material. 