A robotic system which controls the movement of a surgical instrument in response to voice commands from the user. The robotic system has a computer controlled arm that holds the surgical instrument. The user provides voice commands to the computer through a microphone. The computer contains a phrase recognizer that matches the user' speech with words stored in the computer. Matched words are then processed to determine whether the user has spoken a robot command. If the user has spoken a recognized robot command the computer will move the robotic arm in accordance with the command.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system that controls a surgical instrument, comprising: a mechanism that can move the surgical instrument; an audio input device that receives a voice qualifier and a voice command from a user to move the surgical instrument, and provides an output signal that correspond to the voice command; and, a controller that receives said output signal from said audio input device and provides a movement output signal to said mechanism to move said mechanism and the surgical instrument in accordance with the voice command only when the voice qualifier accompanies the voice command. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said controller provides said movement output signal only when a plurality of voice commands are provided in a predetermined sequence. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said mechanism is a robotic arm assembly. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a foot pedal coupled to said controller. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a speaker coupled to said controller to generate an audio message. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a monitor coupled to said controller to generate a visual message. 7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said controller provides said movement output signal only when a plurality of voice commands are provided in a predetermined sequence. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said mechanism is a robotic arm assembly. 9. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a foot pedal coupled to said controller. 10. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a speaker coupled to said controller to generate an audio message. 11. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising a monitor coupled to said controller to generate a visual message. 12. A robotic system that controls a surgical instrument, comprising: a mechanism that can move the surgical instrument; audio input means for receiving a voice qualifier and a voice command from a user to move the surgical instrument and providing an output signal that correspond to the voice command; and, controller means for receiving said output signal from said audio input means and providing a movement output signal to said mechanism to move said mechanism and the surgical instrument in accordance with the voice command only when the voice qualifier accompanies the voice command. 13. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein said controller means provides said movement output signal only when a plurality of voice commands are provided in a predetermined sequence. 14. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein said mechanism is a robotic arm assembly. 15. The system as recited in claim 12, further comprising a foot pedal coupled to said controller means. 16. The system as recited in claim 12, further comprising speaker means for generating an audio message. 17. The system as recited in claim 12, further comprising monitor means for generating a visual message. 18. A method for moving a surgical instrument, comprising the steps of: a) generating a voice qualifier and a voice command to move a mechanism that holds the surgical instrument; b) determining whether the voice qualifier matches a first robot command; c) determining whether the voice command matches a second robot command if the voice qualifier matched the first robot command; and, d) moving the surgical instrument with said mechanism only if the voice qualifier matches the first robot command and the voice command matches the second robot command. 19. The method as recited in claim 18, wherein the surgical instrument is moved only when a plurality of voice commands are provided in a predetermined sequence. 20. A medical robotic system that controls a surgical instrument, comprising: an actuator; a linkage attached to said actuator and that can be coupled to the surgical instrument; an audio input device that receives a voice qualifier and a voice command from a user; and, a controller that is coupled to said audio input device and provides a movement output signal to said actuator to move said linkage in accordance with the voice command only when the voice qualifier accompanies the voice command. 21. A robotic system that controls a surgical instrument, comprising: a mechanism that can move the surgical instrument; audio input means for receiving voice qualifier and a voice command from a user to move the surgical instrument; and, controller means for moving said mechanism in accordance with the voice command only when the voice qualifier accompanies the voice command. 22. The system as recited in claim 21, wherein said controller means provides said movement output signal only when a plurality of voice commands are provided in a predetermined sequence. 23. The system as recited in claim 21, wherein said mechanism is a robotic arm assembly. 24. The system as recited in claim 21, further comprising a foot pedal coupled to said controller means. 25. The system as recited in claim 21, further comprising speaker means for generating an audio message. 26. The system as recited in claim 21, further comprising monitor means for generating a visual message. 