A system and method for providing substantially defect free rapid thermal processing. The present invention includes a wafer processing system used to process semiconductor wafers into electronic devices. In accordance with the present invention, once the wafer is processed, a shield can be inserted into the reactor to a position between the reactor heating surface and the wafer. The shield causes the temperature of the wafer to be reduced. Once the temperature of the wafer has been reduced to below a predetermined critical temperature, the robot picks up the wafer and removes the wafer from the processing chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer processing system, the system comprising: a process chamber defining a cavity configured to receive a wafer therein; a robot operable to move a wafer to and/or from the process chamber; and a shield mechanism operable to shield an entire surface of the wafer from a heating sources said robot including an end effector, said shield mechanism coupled to said end effector and operable to extend into said process chamber simultaneously with said end effector. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a single shield capable of being arranged adjacent a surface of said wafer. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said process chamber comprises a rapid thermal processor (RTP). 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said heating source comprises resistive heating elements. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a first shield and a second shield, said first shield operable to be arranged adjacent a top portion of said wafer, said second shield operable to be arranged adjacent a bottom portion of said wafer. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a heat shielding material taken from the group consisting of quartz. 7. A semiconductor wafer processing system, the system comprising: a process chamber defining a cavity configured to receive a wafer therein; a robot operable to move a wafer to and/or from the process chamber; and a shield mechanism operable to shield an entire surface of the wafer from a heating source, said robot including an end effector, said shield mechanism coupled to said end effector and operable to be retracted from said process chamber simultaneously with said end effector. 8. A system for inserting and/or removing a semiconductor wafer from a reactor, said system comprising: an end effector operable to pick-up and place a wafer; and a shield mechanism mounted to said end effector and operable to screen an entire surface of said wafer from a heat source to cause the temperature of said wafer to be reduced. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a first shield operable to screen a top surface of said wafer and a second shield operable to screen a bottom surface of said wafer. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein said shield mechanism is operable to be retracted from said process chamber simultaneously with said end effector. 11. A method for processing a semiconductor wafer, said method comprising: providing a wafer processing chamber; providing a robot having an end effector; inserting a shield mechanism coupled with said end effector into said wafer processing chamber to a first location where said shield mechanism overlaps an entire surface of a processed wafer; said shield mechanism causing a temperature of said processed wafer to be reduced. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a first shield arrangeable adjacent a portion of said wafer subjected to a first heat source. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a second shield arrangeable adjacent a portion of said wafer subjected to a second heat source. 14. A method of processing a semiconductor wafer, said method comprising: inserting a shield mechanism and a robot arm into a wafer processing chamber, said shield mechanism coupled to said robot arm, said robot arm configured to move said shield mechanism to a first position such that in said first position said shield mechanism covers an entire surface of a processed wafer to cause a temperature of said processed wafer to be reduced; and retracting said robot arm to remove said shield mechanism and said processed wafer from said processing chamber. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a first shield arrangeable adjacent a portion of said wafer subjected to a first heat source. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a second shield arrangeable adjacent a portion of said wafer subjected to a second heat source. 17. A method for processing a semiconductor wafer within a wafer processing system, said method comprising: lowering the temperature of a processed semiconductor wafer by introducing at least one heat shield coupled to a robotic arm into a reactor such that the at least one heat shield is positioned to overlap at least one entire surface of said processed semiconductor wafer; and, thereafter removing said processed semiconductor wafer and said at least one heat shield from said reactor using said robotic arm having an end effector. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said at least one heat shield is disposed between a surface of the wafer and a heat source within said reactor. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said at least one heat shield comprises a first and a second heat shield, said first heat shield disposed adjacent a first surface of said wafer, and said second heat shield disposed adjacent a second surface of said wafer. 20. A semiconductor wafer processing system, the system comprising: a process chamber defining a cavity configured to receive a wafer including a single opening; an end effector coupled to a first robot operable to move said wafer into and out from said process chamber; and a shield mechanism coupled to a second robot operable to move said shield mechanism to a first location where said shield mechanism overlaps an entire surface of the wafer when said wafer is disposed in said cavity, said first robot and said second robot configured to enter and exit through said single opening of said process chamber. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said process chamber comprises a rapid thermal processor (RTP). 22. The system of claim 20, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a first shield and a second shield, said first shield operable to be arranged adjacent a top portion of said wafer, said second shield operable to be arranged adjacent a bottom portion of said wafer. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein said shield mechanism comprises a heat shielding material taken from the group consisting of quartz. 24. The system of claim 20, wherein said shield mechanism is operable to be retracted from said process chamber simultaneously with said end effector through said single opening. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein said shield mechanism is operable to extend into said process chamber simultaneously with said end effector through said single opening. 