A method and apparatus for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface. The method includes the steps of generating a representation of an object in graphic space, sensing the position of the user in real space and calculating a force to be applied to a user in response to the user's haptic interface and the user's fiducial object. The user's fiducial object represents the location in graphic space at which the user's haptic interface would be located if the haptic interface could not penetrate the surfaces of virtual objects. In one embodiment, the method calculates a stiffness force to be applied to the user. In other embodiments, the method calculates damping and friction forces to be applied to the user. In one embodiment the step of generating a representation of an object in graphic space includes defining the object as a mesh of planar surfaces and associating surface condition values to each of the nodes defining the planar surfaces. In another embodiment, the step of generating a representation of an object in graphic space includes describing the surface of the object using a coordinate system and associating surface condition values with each set of coordinates of the coordinate system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) generating a representation of an object in graphic space by defining said object as a mesh of triangular planar surfaces, each of said triangular planar surfaces comprising a first node, a second node, and a third node; (b) sensing a position of a user in real space; (c) determining a haptic interface location in graphic space in response to said position of said user in real space; (d) determining a fiducial object location in graphic space; and (e) calculating a stiffness force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location and said fiducial object location in graphic space. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the stiffness force has a magnitude and wherein the step of calculating a stiffness force to be applied to said user in real space further comprises the step of: calculating the magnitude of the stiffness force, wherein the step of calculating the magnitude of the stiffness force further comprises the steps of: associating a stiffness value with said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surface; determining on which of said triangular planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a stiffness value of said fiducial object location by interpolating said stiffness values associated with said first node, said second node and said third node of each of said triangular planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the stiffness force has a direction and wherein the step of calculating a stiffness force to be applied to said user in real space further comprises the step of: calculating the direction of the stiffness force, wherein the step of calculating the direction of the stiffness force further comprises the steps of: associating a surface normal with each said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surface; determining on which of said triangular planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a surface normal for said fiducial object location by interpolating said surface normals associated with said first node, said second node and said third node of each of said triangular planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: calculating a magnitude of a damping force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location and said fiducial object location in graphic space. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: calculating a direction of a damping force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location and said fiducial object location in graphic space. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of calculating the magnitude of the damping force further comprises the steps of: associating a damping coefficient with each said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surface; determining on which of said planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a damping coefficient of said fiducial object location by interpolating said damping coefficients associated with said first node, said second node and said third node of each of said triangular planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of calculating the direction of the damping force further comprises the steps of: associating a surface normal with each said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surface; determining on which of said triangular planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a surface normal for said fiducial object location by interpolating said surface normals associated with said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 8. A method for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) generating a representation of an object in graphic space by defining said object as a mesh of planar surfaces, each of said planar surfaces comprising nodes; (b) sensing a position of a user in real space; (c) determining a haptic interface location in graphic space in response to said position of said user in real space; (d) determining a fiducial object location in graphic space; and (e) calculating a stiffness force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location and said fiducial object location in graphic space. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the stiffness force has a magnitude and wherein the step of calculating a stiffness force to be applied to said user in real space further comprises the step of: calculating the magnitude of the stiffness force, wherein the step of calculating the magnitude of the stiffness force further comprises the steps of: associating a stiffness value with each of said nodes of each said planar surface; determining on which of said planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a stiffness value of said fiducial object location by interpolating said stiffness values associated with said nodes of each of said planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the stiffness force has a direction and wherein the step of calculating a stiffness force to be applied to said user in real space further comprises the step of: calculating the direction of the stiffness force, wherein the step of calculating the direction of the stiffness force further comprises the steps of: associating a surface normal with each of said nodes of each said planar surface; determining on which of said planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a surface normal for said fiducial object location by interpolating said surface normals associated with said nodes of each of said planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 11. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of: calculating a magnitude of a damping force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location and said fiducial object location in graphic space. 12. The method of claim 8 further comprising the step of: calculating a direction of a damping force to be applied to said user in real space in response to said haptic interface location and said fiducial object location in graphic space. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of calculating the magnitude of the damping force further comprises the steps of: associating a damping coefficient with each said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surface; determining on which of said planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a damping coefficient of said fiducial object location by interpolating said damping coefficients associated with said first node, said second node and said third node of each of said triangular planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of calculating the direction of the damping force further comprises the steps of: associating a surface normal with each said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surface; determining on which of said triangular planar surfaces said fiducial object is located; and computing a surface normal for said fiducial object location by interpolating said surface normals associated with said first node, said second node and said third node of each said triangular planar surfaces on which said fiducial object is located. 