A positioning device for positioning a movably mounted portion of a workpiece. The positioning device includes an attachment structure, a rod, a flange assembly and an engagement mechanism. The attachment structure includes a rod aperture and is coupled to a robotic apparatus. The rod is disposed within the rod aperture and is slidably positionable therein. The flange assembly is coupled to a distal end of the rod and includes a flange structure. The flange structure is rotatable relative to the rod and engages the movably mounted portion of the workpiece. The engagement mechanism is coupled to the attachment structure and is operable for moving the rod in an axial direction within the rod aperture. The engagement mechanism applies an axially directed force to the flange assembly to maintain the flange structure in a stationary position relative to the movably mounted portion of the workpiece when the movably mounted portion of the workpiece is moved relative to a remaining portion of the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A positioning device for positioning a movably mounted portion of a workpiece, the positioning device comprising: an attachment structure having a rod aperture, the attachment structure adapted to be coupled to a robotic apparatus; a rod disposed within the rod aperture and slidably positionable therein; a flange assembly having a flange structure, the flange assembly coupled to a distal end of the rod, the flange structure being rotatable relative to the rod, the flange structure being adapted to engage the movably mounted portion of the workpiece; and an engagement mechanism coupled to the attachment structure and operable for moving the rod in an axial direction within the rod aperture, the engagement mechanism applying an axially directed force to the flange assembly for maintaining the flange structure in a stationary position relative to the movably mounted portion of the workpiece when the movably mounted portion of the workpiece is moved relative to a remaining portion of the workpiece. 2. The positioning device of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the flange structure includes a plurality of grooves. 3. The positioning device of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of grooves is sized to receive a portion of the movably mounted portion of the workpiece. 4. The positioning device of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of grooves lies along a line that intersects an axis about which the flange structure rotates. 5. The positioning device of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of grooves is defined by a pair of wall members. 6. The positioning device of claim 1, wherein the flange assembly further includes a bearing coupled to the rod and supporting the flange structure for rotation. 7. The positioning device of claim 6, wherein the flange assembly further includes a second flange structure for receiving the axially directed force from the engagement mechanism. 8. The positioning device of claim 7, wherein the flange structure includes a hub portion and the second flange structure includes a recess portion wherein at least a portion of the hub portion is disposed in the recess portion. 9. The positioning device of claim 7, wherein the flange structure and the second flange structure are frusto-conically shaped. 10. The positioning device of claim 1, wherein the engagement mechanism includes a compression spring disposed between the attachment structure and the flange assembly. 11. The positioning device of claim 1, wherein the engagement mechanism includes a cylinder assembly having a piston and a housing, the cylinder assembly employing a compressible fluid that acts on the piston to generate the axially directed force. 12. The positioning device of claim 1, wherein the attachment structure includes a bracket assembly having a pair of clamp structures which are adapted to cooperatively exert a clamping force to fixedly but removably couple the positioning device to the robotic apparatus. 13. A positioning device for positioning a movably mounted portion of a workpiece, the positioning device comprising: an attachment structure having a bracket assembly and a mounting assembly, the bracket assembly having a pair of clamp structures which are adapted to cooperatively exert a clamping force to fixedly but removably couple the positioning device to a robotic apparatus, the mounting assembly coupled to at least one of the clamp structures and having a rod aperture disposed therethrough; a rod disposed within the rod aperture and slidably positionable therein; a flange assembly having an upper flange structure, a bearing and a lower flange structure, the upper flange structure being fixedly coupled to the rod, the bearing rotatably coupling the lower flange structure to the rod, the lower flange structure being adapted to engage the movably mounted portion of the workpiece; and a compression spring disposed between the upper flange structure and the mounting assembly, the compression spring applying an axially directed force to the flange assembly for maintaining the lower flange structure in a stationary position relative to the movably mounted portion of the workpiece when the movably mounted portion of the workpiece is moved relative to a remaining portion of the workpiece. 14. A robotic apparatus for positioning a movably mounted portion of a workpiece, the robotic apparatus comprising: an arm assembly movable in at least two orthogonal directions; a positioning device coupled to the arm assembly, the positioning device including an attachment structure, a rod, a flange assembly and an engagement mechanism, the attachment structure coupled to the robotic apparatus and having a rod aperture, the rod disposed within the rod aperture and slidably positionable therein, the flange assembly having a flange structure, the flange assembly coupled to a distal end of the rod, the flange structure being rotatable relative to the rod, the flange structure being adapted to engage the movably mounted portion of the workpiece, the engagement mechanism coupled to the attachment structure and operable for moving the rod within the rod aperture, the engagement mechanism applying an axially directed force to the flange assembly for maintaining the flange structure in a stationary position relative to the movably mounted portion of the workpiece when the movably mounted portion of the workpiece is moved relative to a remaining portion of the workpiece. 15. The robotic apparatus of claim 14, wherein the arm assembly includes an end effector for performing a second operation. 16. The robotic apparatus of claim 15, wherein the end effector includes a spray gun apparatus for spraying a liquid material onto the workpiece. 17. The robotic apparatus of claim 14, wherein the engagement mechanism includes a compression spring disposed between the attachment structure and the flange assembly. 18. The robotic apparatus of claim 14, wherein the distal end of the flange structure includes a plurality of grooves, each of the plurality of grooves lying along a line that intersects an axis about which the flange structure rotates, each of the plurality of grooves being defined by a pair of wall members which are spaced apart to receive a portion of the movably mounted portion of the workpiece. 19. The robotic apparatus of claim 14, wherein the flange assembly further includes a bearing coupled to a portion of the flange assembly and supporting the flange structure for rotation. 20. The robotic apparatus of claim 19, wherein the flange assembly further includes a second flange structure for receiving the axially directed force from the engagement mechanism. 