An apparatus for braking a rotating member having an engaged state and a disengaged state is disclosed. Rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state. The braking apparatus includes a housing, an actuator, and a first brake structure. The first brake structure includes a brake pad having a contact surface. The brake structure is pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator. The actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member. The frictional force between the rotating member and the contact surface causes further arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member and places the apparatus in the engaged state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited when the apparatus is in the engaged state, the apparatus comprising: a solenoid operably coupled to a first brake structure such that the apparatus is in the disengaged state when activating electrical power is provided to the solenoid; and a manual override mechanism operably coupled to a second brake structure such that the apparatus is in the disengaged state when an external force is provided to the manual override mechanism; wherein the apparatus is in the engaged state when activating power is absent from the solenoid and external force is absent from the manual override mechanism, and wherein a linkage couples the first brake structure to the second brake structure such that both the solenoid and the manual override mechanism are operable to move the first and second brake structures. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the linkage comprises a spring-loaded linkage. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the manual override mechanism comprises a manual override plate having at least one aperture, each of the at least one aperture adapted to receive an actuation pin of one of at least one brake structure. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the at least one brake structure further comprises a brake pad operably coupled to the actuation pin. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an actuation plate having at least one aperture, the actuation plate coupled to the solenoid, the at least one aperture coupled to at least one brake structure. 6. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited when the apparatus is in the engaged state, the apparatus comprising: a first device operably coupled to a first brake structure such that the apparatus is in the disengaged state responsive to an electrical signal provided to the first device; and a manual override mechanism operably coupled to a second brake structure such that the apparatus is in the disengaged state when an external force is provided to the manual override mechanism; wherein the apparatus is in the engaged state when the electrical signal is absent from the first device and external force is absent from the manual override mechanism, and wherein a linkage couples the first brake structure and the second brake structure such that both the first device and the manual override mechanism are operable to move the first and second brake structures. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the linkage comprises a spring-loaded linkage. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the manual override mechanism comprises a manual override plate having at least one aperture, each of the at least one aperture adapted to receive an actuation pin of one of at least one brake structure. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the at least one brake structure further comprises a brake pad operably coupled to the actuation pin. 10. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the first device includes an actuation plate having at least one aperture, the at least one aperture coupled to the at least one brake structure. 11. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited when the apparatus is in the engaged state, the apparatus comprising: a) a housing; b) an actuator including a manual override mechanism; and c) a first brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; and wherein the actuator is operable to cause first pivotal motion of the brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member, the actuator is further operable to cause second pivotal motion of the brake structure responsive to an electrical signal, thereby causing second arcuate motion of the contact surface away from the rotating member, and the manual override mechanism is operable to cause second pivotal motion of the brake structure responsive to an external force. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure, such that the actuator causes arcuate motion of the contact surface in a first axial direction with respect to the rotating member toward the rotating member. 13. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state, comprising: a) a housing; b) an actuator; c) a first brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a substantially convex contact surface, the first brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator; and wherein the actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure about an axis that extends in a substantially radial direction with respect to the rotating member, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward an engagement surface of the rotating member so as to place the apparatus in the engaged state. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising a second brake structure including a second brake pad, the second brake pad having a substantially convex second contact surface, the second brake structure being pivotally connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator, and wherein the actuator is operable to cause pivotal motion of the second brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion of the second contact surface in a second axial direction with respect to the rotating member toward a second engagement surface of the rotating member. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the actuator further includes a spring-loaded linkage that biases the contact surface toward the rotating member, thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface toward the engagement surface of the rotating member. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the actuator further comprises a brake release device coupled to the spring-loaded linkage that controllably urges the contact surface away from the engagement surface of the rotating member to place the apparatus in the disengaged state. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the brake release device comprises a solenoid having a plunger, and wherein the plunger engages the spring-loaded linkage, and overcomes the bias of the spring loaded linkage thereby causing arcuate motion of the contact surface away from the engagement surface of the rotating member. 18. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising an opposing brake structure including an opposing brake pad, the opposing brake pad having a substantially convex contact surface, the opposing brake structure being pivotably connected to the housing and further connected to the actuator, and wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the opposing brake structure in the opposite rotational direction of the pivotal motion of the first brake structure, thereby causing arcuate motion that moves the contact surface of the opposing brake pad toward the engagement surface of the rotating member. 19. An apparatus for braking a rotating member, the apparatus having an engaged state and a disengaged state wherein rotation of the rotating member is inhibited by the apparatus when the apparatus is in the engaged state, comprising: a) a housing; b) an actuator; and c) a first brake structure including a brake pad, the brake pad having a contact surface, the brake structure connected to the actuator, the brake structure further pivotally connected to the housing proximate a first end of the contact surface, said pivotal connection defining an axis that is substantially radial with respect to the rotating member; wherein the actuator is operable to cause motion of the brake structure, thereby causing motion of the contact surface toward the rotating member, and wherein frictional force between the rotating member and the contact surface causes arcuate motion of the contact surface about the axis toward the rotating member and places the apparatus in the engaged state. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure about the defined axis. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the actuator is further operable to cause pivotal motion of the brake structure in a first arcuate direction, and wherein the frictional force between the rotating member and contact surface causes arcuate motion of the contact surface in the first arcuate direction toward the rotating member. 