The invention concerns an actuator (21) comprising a pre-stroke rod (29) which can be fixed to the tool body, for example soldering pliers. Thus by pressurising the pre-stroke chamber (27) the working rod (34) for closing the pliers can be brought into an intermediate small opening position, the working piston (31) and the amplifying pistons (36 and 37) remaining retracted in the actuator. Since the rod (29) can then be locked relative to the actuator body (21), pressurisation of the working chamber (32) and the amplifying chambers (38 and 40) will then cause the working rod to be extracted (34) and the soldering pliers to be closed without any recoil from the actuator body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Actuator effecting an approach pre-stroke and a working stroke for maneuvering a tool, comprising an actuator body in which at least two pistons are mounted so as to be able to slide in the actuator body, either in the same direction or in opposite directions, when extracted from the actuator body, namely a pre-stroke piston and at least one working piston actuating the tool, said actuator further comprising locking means disposed between said actuator body and a pre-stroke rod joined to said pre-stroke piston, these locking means operating at least in the retraction direction thereof, characterised in that said working rod and said pre-stroke rod are displaced in the same direction between their retracted position inside said actuator body and their extracted position, the working rod being slidably mounted in an axial compartment of the pre-stroke rod. 2. Actuator according to claim 1, wherein the locking means comprise at least one lock designed to slide transversely in a front cylinder head of said actuator body, this lock being provided in the form of a small piston and being biased, by an external pressure, so as to lock in a pocket of said pre-stroke rod, by compressing a return spring in the unlocking position. 3. Actuator according to claim 1, wherein said locking means comprise, in a rear cylinder head of the body of said actuator, a crown coaxial with said pre-stroke rod and designed to be returned to an unlocking position by peripherally acting springs, the rotating motion of this crown against the return force being generated by applying external energy or automatically when said pre-stroke piston reaches the end of the approach pre-stroke thereof, thereby biasing a lock or locks to be engaged in compartments of said pre-stroke rod. 4. Actuator according to claim 3, wherein on a face directed towards said rear cylinder head, said pre-stroke piston has conical tips designed to locate in respective bores of said crown and to pivot the latter into the locking position thereof, these tips being slightly offset from said bores when said crown is not operating, in the unlocking position. 5. Actuator according to claim 1, further comprising a catch or catches biased by springs in a direction which causes said catch or catches to project from the lateral surface of said pre-stroke piston enabling said catch or catches to engage in notches of the actuator body, thereby locking said pre-stroke piston relative to this body, at least in the retraction direction thereof, and said working piston having ramps designed to act on tails of said catches, when returning said working piston to the fully retracted position thereof, thereby returning said catch or catches to the unlocking position. 6. Actuator according to claim 1, wherein said locking means comprise a lock or locks radially displaceable in appropriate recesses of said pre-stroke rod and designed to locate in pockets of a front cylinder head of the body of said actuator. 7. Actuator according to claim 6, wherein the lock or locks may be engaged in said pockets by a positioning ramp of said working rod. 8. Actuator according to claim 7, wherein said positioning rod is maneuvered by said working rod between a position in which said locks are released and said position in which said locks are engaged in said pockets, this working rod having, for this purpose, firstly a shoulder designed to push axially, by means of an elastic element, said positioning rod towards the position in which said positioning rod engages the lock or locks and, secondly, an outer stop designed to return said positioning rod into said position in which said lock or locks are released as said working rod is retracted. 9. Actuator according to claim 6, wherein said lock or locks may be engaged in said pockets by a ramped positioning rod slidably mounted on said working rod inside said pre-stroke rod. 10. Actuator according to claim 1, wherein said working piston is joined to one or more amplifier pistons each being displaceable in an amplifier chamber to which said pressurized fluid is applied. 