In a process for sorting mail pieces according to the invention using a priori or first sort pass derived information, a sorting machine is used having a first array of pockets and a second array of pockets physically separate from the first array of pockets. The first and second arrays are swept of mail pieces by separate sweepers. The number of mail pieces sorted to each array are equalized in order to equalize the volume of mail pieces swept by each sweeper. In particular, where each pocket corresponds to a destination code and a total number of mail pieces per destination code is known in advance for each sort scheme to be carried out on the sorting machine, the equalizing step involves assigning destination codes to specific pockets to different sweeper zones in a manner that equalizes the volume of mail pieces swept by each sweeper. Mail is then swept from the pockets to trays stored on a vertically and horizontally extending rack having rows and columns of compartments containing trays. The number of mail pieces associated with each destination code in the sort scheme is determined, and destination codes are assigned to pockets and to trays at specific positions on the rack in a manner that minimizes the amount of vertical travel in sweeping sorted mail from the pockets. These improvements in combination improve the ergonomic aspects of the sorting process, when human or robotic sweepers are used.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a process for sorting mail pieces with a sorting machine having a first array of pockets and a second array of pockets physically separate from the first array of pockets, which first and second arrays are swept of mail pieces by separate sweepers, the improvement which comprises equalizing the number of mail pieces sorted to each array in order to equalize the volume of mail pieces swept by each sweeper. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein each pocket corresponds to a destination code and a total number of mail pieces per destination code is known in advance for each sort scheme to be carried out on the sorting machine, and the equalizing step comprises assigning destination codes to specific pockets in different sweeper zones in a manner that equalizes the volume of mail pieces swept by each sweeper. 3. In a process for sorting mail pieces with a sorting machine, including the steps of sorting mail pieces to pockets in a vertically and horizontally extending array, wherein each pocket corresponds to one or more destination codes in a sort scheme, and sweeping sorted mail from the pockets to trays stored on a vertically and horizontally extending rack having rows and columns of compartments containing trays, the improvement which comprises: determining the number of mail pieces associated with each destination code in the sort scheme; assigning destination codes to pockets and to trays at specific positions on the rack in a manner that minimizes the amount of vertical travel in sweeping sorted mail from the pockets and moving it to its designated tray. 4. The process of claim 3, wherein the rack is divided into a plurality of tiers which receive mail from different sort schemes, further comprising assigning destination codes to pockets and to trays at specific positions on the rack in a manner that minimizes the amount of vertical travel in sweeping sorted mail from the pockets over all of the sort schemes. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein the tiers include an uppermost tier and a lowermost tier, further comprising the steps of: during one sort scheme, sweeping mail pieces from the pockets to trays in the uppermost tier; during another sort scheme, sweeping mail pieces from the pockets to trays in the lowermost tier. 6. The process of claim 5, wherein during the one sort scheme, an uppermost row of the uppermost tier receives the fewest mail pieces. 7. The process of claim 6, wherein during the other sort scheme, a lowermost row of the lowermost tier receives the fewest mail pieces. 8. In a process for sorting mail pieces with a sorting machine, including the steps of sorting mail pieces to pockets in a vertically and horizontally extending array, wherein each pocket corresponds to a destination code in a sort scheme, and sweeping sorted mail from the pockets to trays stored on a vertically and horizontally extending rack having rows and columns of compartments containing trays, the improvement which comprises: determining the number of mail pieces associated with each destination code in the sort scheme; assigning destination codes to trays at specific positions on the rack in a manner that minimizes the amount of mail swept to trays in the highest and lowest rows of the rack. 9. A system for sorting mail pieces, comprising: a sorting machine having a first array of pockets and a second array of pockets physically separate from the first array of pockets, which first and second arrays are swept of mail pieces by separate sweepers; and means for equalizing the number of mail pieces sorted to each array in order to equalize the volume of mail pieces swept by each sweeper. 10. A system for sorting mail pieces, comprising: a sorting machine that sorts mail pieces to pockets in a vertically and horizontally extending array; a vertically and horizontally extending rack having rows and columns of compartments containing trays for receiving mail pieces swept from the pockets of the sorting machine; means for determining the number of mail pieces associated with a destination code in a sort scheme; and means for assigning destination codes to trays at specific positions on the rack in a manner that minimizes the amount of mail swept to trays in the highest and lowest rows of the rack. 11. A system for sorting mail pieces, comprising: a sorting machine that sorts mail pieces to pockets in a vertically and horizontally extending array; a vertically and horizontally extending rack having rows and columns of compartments containing trays for receiving mail pieces swept from the pockets of the sorting machine; means for determining the number of mail pieces associated with each destination code in the sort scheme; and means for assigning destination codes to pockets and to trays at specific positions on the rack in a manner that minimizes the amount of vertical travel in sweeping sorted mail from the pockets. 