The invention describes a method of controlling a welding unit (1) and a current source (2), in which various welding parameters, such as a welding current, a welding wire diameter, a welding method etc., for example, can be set by a user from an input and/or output device (22). The set welding parameters are applied to a control device (4). The welding unit (1) and the current source (2) are then activated by the control device (4) in accordance with the predetermined welding parameters. Prior to, during and/or after start-up of the welding process, the user can set a surface area or a cross section of a weld seam, in particular a fillet weld, from the input and/or output device (22), after which the control device (4) scans and/or retrieves and displays desired values for additional parameters needed to form the weld seam and/or for the welding procedure, stored in a memory device in particular.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a welding unit comprising a current source to produce a pre-set welding seam, which comprises the steps of (a) setting and storing by an input or output device, before the start of a welding process, various welding parameters selected from the group of the welding current, the welding wire diameter, the welding speed and a surface area or cross section of a welding seam as well as a measurement of the welding seam with various parameters selected from the group of the seam thickness, the seam width and the side length of the seam, (1) the seam thickness being displayed by a light-emitting diode and a symbol on a front plate of the input or output device and being called up for the measurement of the welding seam, (b) retrieving and displaying the stored parameters for the formation of desired parameters of the welding seam for the welding process, (c) entering the stored parameters in a control device, and (d) controlling the welding unit comprising the current source by the control device containing the stored parameters while continuously adjusting the stored parameters to the prevailing welding speed or the welding speed to the stored parameters to produce the pre-set welding seam. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of changing at least one of the parameters in the input or output device. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the parameters are changed by a main controller. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the welding process is used to produce a fillet weld. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein several individual parameters are set in addition to the seam thickness. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a welding seam is formed on the basis of various measurement parameters selected from the group of the seam thickness, the seam width and the side length of the welding seam, at least one additional welding parameter selected from the group of welding wire feed, welding voltage and welding current being applied to the control device to compute at least one of the measurement parameters. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein an angle enclosed by workpieces to be welded together is taken into account in computing and setting the seam thickness parameter, the angle being set by the input or output device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the control device computes desired parameters for the welding process on the basis of the stored parameters entered therein, and individual components of the welding unit are controlled on the basis of the computed desired parameters. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the computed desired parameters are so changed in the control device that the welding parameters set by a user may be maintained. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of monitoring the welding speed. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein individual welding parameters for forming the seam thickness parameter are sequentially or cyclically displayed at the input or output device. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the welding speed parameter is stored in a memory device. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the welding speed parameter for a welding speed to which a user is accustomed is stored in the memory device. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the stored welding speed parameter is taken into account for computing the desired parameters of a fillet weld. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the welding speed is monitored by the control device. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the welding speed is monitored by a speed measuring device in the welding unit. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of calibrating the speed measuring device by the control device before the start of the welding process, the control device applying a total voltage between measurement contacts on a workpiece to which the welding seam is applied. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the control device detects individual partial voltages between a measurement contact on the welding unit and at least two further measurement contacts on a workpiece to which the welding seam is applied, and the welding speed is determined by the control device on the basis of a change in the partial voltages relative to a pre-settable period of time. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the individual partial voltages are detected continuously or intermittently. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the welding speed determined by the control device is displayed on a display element disposed on the welding unit. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the control device detects a current transmission energy, the values required to compute the transmission energy being entered in the control device by the input or output device. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the welding heat is computed on the basis of the transmission energy, a table stored in a memory device providing multiplication factors for the computation of the welding heat. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the control device determines a flux supply on the basis of the specific weight of the welding wire. 24. A control arrangement for a welding unit comprising a current source to produce a pre-set welding seam, which comprises (a) a control device, (b) an input or output device arranged on the welding unit and connected to the control device for entering therein various welding parameters selected from the group of the welding current, the welding wire diameter, the welding speed and a surface area or cross section of a welding seam as well as a measurement of the welding seam thickness, (c) a memory device for storing desired welding parameters which are settable and changeable by the input or output device, (d) a power component, (e) a display element comprised of a light-emitting diode and a symbol on a front plate of the input or output device for calling up the measurement of the welding seam thickness for entering the measurement of the welding seam in the control device, and (f) a welding speed measuring device associated with the welding unit for detecting the welding speed. 25. The control arrangement of claim 24, wherein the welding speed measuring device is comprised of hardware and software components. 26. The control arrangement of claim 25, wherein the hardware component is comprised of two measurement contacts disposed on a workpiece to which the welding seam is applied and a measurement contact disposed on the welding unit. 27. The control arrangement of claim 24, wherein the welding speed measuring device is a resistance bridge disposed on a workpiece to the welding seam is applied. 