An automated system is provided for servicing a vehicle and its occupants. A first identification signal is communicated either while the vehicle is approaching the terminal or upon arrival and a second control signal is then generated from within the vehicle beginning and terminating the requested servicing and maintaining control over the operation. Vehicle servicing, such as fueling and washing is provided robotically to the vehicle without the vehicle occupants being required to emerge from the vehicle or become physically involved in its implementation. Payment is automatically charged to the customers account.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for allowing an occupant of a vehicle to initiate, pay for, and control remotely servicing of the vehicle and its occupants from the vehicle, the system comprising: a customer identification and processing unit for retaining and transmitting customer identification data and for producing a signal authorizing payment and approving servicing of the vehicle and its occupants in response to a communicated identification signal from the vehicle; an automatic servicing unit operatively connected to said identification and processing unit for servicing the vehicle and its occupants upon receipt of an authorization signal from the vehicle and approval signal from the identification and processing unit; a first signal communicator for communicating said identification signal when the vehicle is within a predetermined range of the identification and processing unit; and a second signal communicator controlled by the occupant of said vehicle for producing said authorization signal and controlling said servicing. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the said servicing includes refueling the vehicle. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said automatic servicing unit includes an automatic fuel dispenser for supplying said fuel to said vehicle which includes means for transferring fuel from bulk storage to an inlet of a fuel tank in the vehicle, said transfer means including a moveable dispensing head and associated nozzle, guidance means for directing said dispensing head and nozzle toward the fuel tank inlet and engagement means for engaging and disengaging said nozzle and said fuel tank inlet. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said identification and processing unit includes a unit for communicating said identification signal with said first signal communicator within said predetermined range. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said servicing includes transactions for providing merchandise to the vehicle occupants. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said merchandise is food and/or beverages. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said servicing includes washing the vehicle. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein said first signal communicator is a hand held transponder that produces said identification signal within a predetermined range which is proximate the identification and process unit. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said first and second signal communicator comprise a single unit. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein said second signal communicator also produces signals designating specific services and merchandise. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein said first and second signal communicator comprise a single unit. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein said first signal communicator comprises: a first, vehicle mounted transponder which transmits said signal to the identification and processing unit; and a second, hand held transponder that produces an identification signal proximate the identification and processing unit. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein said servicing terminal is a fueling terminal. 