The present invention provides multi-well plates and column arrays in which samples (e.g., cell lysates containing nucleic acids of interest, such as RNA) can be analyzed and/or processed. In one embodiment, the microfiltration arrangement is a multilayer structure, including (i) a column plate having an array of minicolumns into which samples can be placed, (ii) a discrete filter element disposed in each minicolumn, (iii) a drip-director plate having a corresponding array of drip directors through which filtrate may egress, and (iv) a receiving-well plate having a corresponding array of receiving wells into which filtrate can flow. The invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that are relatively simple to manufacture and that overcome many of the problems associated with the prior arrangements relating to (i) cross-contamination due to wicking across a common filter sheet or (ii) individual filter elements entrapping sample constituents within substantial dead volumes. Further, the invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that adequately support discrete filter elements disposed in the wells without creating substantial preferential flow. Additionally, the invention provides multi-well microfiltration arrangements that avoid cross-contamination due to aerosol formation, pendent drops and/or splattering. Other disclosed features of the invention provide for the automated covering or heat-sealing of filtrate samples separately collected in an array of wells.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A microfiltration apparatus for processing a plurality of fluid samples, comprising: a first plate having a plurality of columns, each column containing at one end thereof a filter element and a fluid discharge conduit beneath the filter element; a second plate spaced apart from said first plate by a cavity, said second plate having (i) a plurality of collection wells aligned with said columns for receiving sample fluid from said discharge conduits, and (ii) a plurality of vents extending through the second plate adjacent said collection wells; a gas-permeable material positioned in said cavity between the first plate and the second plate, said material laterally surrounding the region between at least one discharge conduit and an aligned collection well; wherein said gas-permeable material is effective (i) to permit a vacuum drawn from beneath said second plate to extend, via said vents, to a region above said second plate and to said plurality of columns, thereby drawing fluid from said columns into said collection wells and (ii) to obstruct movement of aerosols across the top of said second plate, thereby discouraging cross-contamination between wells. 2. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 1, wherein said gas-permeable material is a continuous sheet having a plurality of openings permitting the passage of filtrate from each discharge conduit to a respective collection well. 3. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 2, wherein each one of said discharge conduits extends at least partially into a respective one of said openings. 4. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 2, wherein said gas-permeable material extends over a plurality of said vents. 5. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 1, wherein said gas-permeable material is comprised, at least in part, of a porous hydrophilic polymer material. 6. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 5, wherein said porous hydrophilic polymer material is ethyl vinyl acetate (EVA). 7. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 1, wherein said collection wells are arranged in a rectangular array having at least eight wells. 8. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 7, wherein said second plate is provided with at least one vent for every four collection wells, and wherein said vents are arranged such that a vent is located between each collection well and at least one adjacent collection well. 9. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 8, wherein said at least one adjacent collection well is a diagonally adjacent collection well. 10. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said columns has (i) a first inner bore defining a lumen within the column, and (ii) an end region defining (a) a second inner bore having a diameter greater than that of the first inner bore and (b) a transition region that joins the second inner bore to the first inner bore; and wherein each of said discharge conduits has an upstanding upper end region aligned with and received by a corresponding column end region so as to form a substantially fluid-tight interface therebetween, said discharge conduit upper end region having a terminal rim region for supporting a circumferential region of the filter element such that each filter element is held between a column transition region and the terminal rim region of a corresponding discharge conduit. 11. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for shifting said first plate in either of two directions from a reference "home" position along a generally horizontally extending axis, and then returning said plate back to said reference "home" position; wherein said shifting means includes a stepper motor in mechanical communication with said plate such that angular rotation of said stepper motor induces linear motion of said plate. 12. The microfiltration apparatus of claim 11, further comprising vacuum means for drawing adherent drops of fluid hanging from said discharge conduits in a direction away from said collection wells and up into said discharge conduits. 13. A method for separately collecting filtrate from an array of microfiltration wells in a corresponding array of collection wells held by a collection tray situated below said microfiltration-well array, comprising: (A) placing a fluid sample in a plurality of said microfiltration wells; (B) drawing a vacuum along pathways extending (i) from each microfiltration well (ii) downward through a plane defined by an upper surface of the collection tray at a point at or adjacent a corresponding collection well (iii) to a region beneath said collection tray, thereby causing a filtrate to flow from each microfiltration well and into a corresponding collection well; and (C) obstructing aerosols formed from the filtrate at any one microfiltration well from moving across said upper surface of said collection tray to a non-corresponding collection well, thereby discouraging cross-contamination. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein each vacuum pathway passes through a gas-permeable material disposed in a cavity between said microfiltration-well array and said collection-well array. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said gas-permeable material is comprised, at least in part, of a porous hydrophilic polymer material. 16. The method claim 14, wherein said gas-permeable material circumscribes the region between each microfiltration well and a corresponding collection well. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said vacuum pathways pass through the plane of said collection-tray upper surface by way of vents that traverse said collection tray proximate each of said collection wells, and wherein said vents are covered by said gas-permeable material. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein each of said vacuum pathways extends from one microfiltration well into a respective collection well prior to passing downward through the plane of said upper surface of said collection tray by way of said vents. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein said microfiltration wells comprise a first plate having a plurality of columns, each column having (i) a first inner bore defining a lumen within the column, and (ii) an end region for receiving a filter medium within the column, said end region defining (a) a second inner bore having a diameter greater than that of the first inner bore and (b) a transition region that joins the second inner bore to the first inner bore; positioned within each column end region, adjacent said transition region, a filter medium for filtering sample; and a second plate having a plurality of discharge conduits, each discharge conduit having an upstanding upper end region aligned with and received within a corresponding column end region so as to form a substantially fluid-tight interface therebetween, said discharge conduit upper end region having a terminal rim region for supporting a circumferential region of the filter medium such that each filter medium is held between a column transition region and the terminal rim region of a corresponding discharge conduit. 20. The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of (i) touching-off, in a substantially simultaneous fashion, adherent drops of fluid hanging from the bottom of each microfiltration well to an inner sidewall of a respective collection well; and (ii) drawing adherent drops of fluid hanging from said discharge conduits in a direction away from said corresponding collection wells and up into said discharge conduits. 