Systems and methods are disclosed that employ facial recognition to create, maintain and use databases that store data records of individuals. In particular, systems and methods are disclosed that employ facial recognition to control the production of identification cards that include an image of a person's face and demographic data. Preferrably, the systems and methods include lensing modules adapted for efficiently identifying within a picture image the location of a person's face.
Claims We claim: 1. In a system for generating identification cards having an image acquisition element for acquiring an image of a face of a selected person requesting an identification card, a computer system comprising: a database having data regarding registered persons having a previously manufactured identification card, wherein the database holds for each of the registered persons, personal information and a representation of an image of a face of the registered person, said representation comprising a weighted set of eigenvector values for a multi-dimensional image space that are associated with the face of the registered person; a recognition component for searching the database and recognizing a substantial match between the image of the face of the selected person acquired by the image acquisition element and one of the representations of an image of a face of a given registered person in the database; a comparison component for determining if personal information provided by the selected person matches personal information of the given registered person when the comparison component recognizes a substantial match between the image of the face of the selected person acquired by the image acquisition element and the representation of the image of the face of the given registered person in the database; and an enforcement component for preventing generation of an identification card for the selected party where the recognition component recognizes a substantial match and the comparison component determines that the personal information provided by the selected person does not match personal information of the given registered person in the database. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the enforcement mechanism includes an element for buffering the image acquired by the image acquisition element in a buffer when the enforcement component prevents generation of an identification card. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the element for buffering also buffers the personal information provided by the selected person in the buffer. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the enforcement mechanism includes an element for identifying and preserving in a data structure personal information of the given registered person from the database when the enforcement component prevents generation of an identification card for the selected party. 5. In an apparatus for generating identification cards having an image acquisition element and a computer system, a method comprising the computer implemented steps of: receiving an image of a face of a selected person requesting an identification card from the image acquisition element; providing a database having data regarding registered persons having a previously manufactured identification card, wherein, for each of the registered persons, the database holds personal information and a representation of an image of a face of the registered person comprising a weighted set of eigenvector values, for a multi-dimensional image space, that are associated with the face of the registered person; searching the representations of images of faces of registered persons in the database; recognizing a substantial match between the image of the face of the selected person acquired by the image acquisition element and one of the representations of an image of a face of a given registered person in the database; where a substantial match is recognized, determining if personal information provided by the selected person matches personal information of the given registered person in the database; preventing an identification card for the selected party from being generated, where a substantial match is recognized and it is determined that the personal information provided by the selected person does not match personal information of the given registered person in the database. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the method further comprises buffering the image acquired by the image acquisition element in a buffer when the generation of an identification card for the selected party is prevented. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the method further comprises buffering the personal information provided by the selected person in the buffer. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the method further comprises identifying and preserving personal information of the given registered person from the database in a data structure when generation of an identification card for the selected party is prevented. 9. In an apparatus for generating identification cards having an image acquisition element and a computer system with a database having data regarding registered persons possessing identification cards, wherein, for each of the registered persons, the database holds personal information and a representation of an image of a face of the registered person comprising a weighted set of eigenvector values, for a multi-dimensional image space, that are associated with the face of the registered person, a computer-readable medium holding computer-executable instructions for performing a method comprising the computer implemented steps of: receiving an image of a face of a selected person requesting an identification card from the image acquisition element; searching the database; recognizing a substantial match between the image of the face of the selected person acquired by the image acquisition element and one of the representations of an image of a face of a given registered person in the database; where a substantial match is recognized, determining if personal information provided by the selected person matches personal information of the given registered person in the database; preventing an identification card for the selected party from being generated, where a substantial match is recognized and it is determined that the personal information provided by the selected person does not match personal information of the given registered person in the database. 10. The computer-readable medium of claim 9 wherein the method further comprises buffering the image acquired by the image acquisition element in a buffer when the generation of an identification card for the selected party is prevented. 11. The computer-readable medium of claim 10 wherein the method further comprises buffering the personal information provided by the selected person in the buffer. 12. The computer-readable medium of claim 9 wherein the method further comprises identifying and preserving personal information of the given registered person from the database in a data structure when generation of an identification card for the selected party is prevented. 