A spray nozzle resetting device comprises a spray nozzle for spraying resist onto a midpoint of a wafer, a rotary robotic arm that has a resist-delivering duct connected to the spray nozzle, a covering nut, a resetting ring, and a fixing ring. The covering nut has an opening of diameter D. The resetting ring has a rotary part of a diameter less than or equal to D, which fits in the opening of the covering nut, and at least two protrusions. The fixing ring, having two recesses that correspond to the two protrusions and interact with them, is used to connect the covering nut and the rotary robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A resist spray nozzle reposition device comprising: a spray nozzle with an approximately rectangular shape being used to spray resist onto a midpoint of a spinning semiconductor wafer; a rotary robot arm comprising a resist-transmitting line, the resist-transmitting line connected to an end of the spray nozzle; a covering nut having an opening with a diameter D; a reposition ring comprising a rotary part with a diameter less than or equal to D, and at least two protrusions, the rotary part positioned through the opening of the covering nut; a fixing ring used to connect the covering nut and the rotary robot arm, the fixing ring comprising two recesses that are positioned to correspond with the two protrusions; and a spring used to provide a force to keep the reposition ring in tight contact with the fixing ring, the spring being positioned between the covering nut and the reposition ring; wherein to move the spray nozzle, the rotary part of the reposition ring is pulled out against the force of the spring and rotated together with the spray nozzle by an angle, and by continuing to rotate the rotary part, the spray nozzle can be self-aligned and repositioned on the midpoint of the semiconductor wafer due to interaction between the protrusions and the recesses. 2. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 1 wherein at least one screw is used to fix the spray nozzle on the rotary part of the reposition ring so that the spray nozzle and the rotary part are rotated together. 3. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 1 wherein the spray nozzle has a right-angled shape. 4. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 1 wherein the spray nozzle is made of stainless steel. 5. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 1 wherein the spray nozzle further comprises a plastic head positioned on another end of the spray nozzle. 6. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 1 wherein a midpoint of the reposition ring is not aligned with the two protrusions. 7. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 1 wherein a midpoint of the fixing ring is not aligned with the two recesses. 8. A liquid process spray nozzle reposition device used in the manufacturing of semiconductor devices, the liquid process spray nozzle reposition device comprising: a spray nozzle with an approximately rectangular shape; a rotary robot arm comprising a liquid-transmitting line, the liquid-transmitting line connected to an end of the spray nozzle; a covering nut having an opening with a diameter D; a reposition ring comprising a rotary part with a diameter less than or equal to D, and at least two protrusions; a fixing ring used to connect the covering nut and the rotary robot arm, the fixing ring comprising two recesses that are positioned to correspond to the two protrusions; and a spring that provides a force to keep the reposition ring tightly in contact with the fixing ring, the spring being positioned between the covering nut and the reposition ring. 9. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 8 wherein at least one screw on the rotary part of the reposition ring fixes the spray nozzle so that the spray nozzle and the rotary part are rotated together. 10. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 8 wherein the spray nozzle has a right-angled shape. 11. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 8 wherein the spray nozzle is made of stainless steel. 12.The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 8 wherein the spray nozzle further comprises a plastic head positioned on another end of the spray nozzle. 13. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 8 wherein a midpoint of the reposition ring is not aligned with the two protrusions. 14. The spray nozzle reposition device of claim 8 wherein a midpoint of the fixing ring is not aligned with the two recesses. 