A system for providing cash to users in a merchandise delivery environment such as a fast food drive-through environment. The system includes a customer request station (212, 262, 288, 300, 322, 378) at which the customer is enabled to input a request for merchandise as well as an input corresponding to a request to receive cash. The customer is further enabled to input to the customer request station information corresponding to a source of monetary value which the customer may charge against for ordered merchandise or for the amount of cash requested. The customer may receive the cash directly at a customer request station. Alternatively, a computer may operate to correlate an identifying input associated with the customer or the transaction, and the request to receive the amount of cash. The customer may then move to a cash delivery station (216, 338). In response to the customer providing the identifying input at the cash delivery station, the customer receives a portion or all of the requested cash. The customer may then move to a merchandise delivery station (222, 292, 304, 316, 324, 342) at which the customer may receive the ordered merchandise. The customer may also receive the balance of any amount due such as coin, at the merchandise delivery station or other change delivery location.
Claims We claim: 1. A method comprising: (a) inputting at a customer request station at least one input corresponding to a request to receive an amount of cash; (b) inputting at the customer request station at least one input corresponding to a source of monetary value; (c) correlating through operation of a computer at least one identifying input with data corresponding to the request to receive the amount; (d) inputting the identifying input through an input device at a cash delivery station disposed from the customer request station; (e) delivering at least a portion of the amount from a cash dispensing device at the cash delivery station responsive to the identifying input; (f) charging the amount against the source of monetary value; (g) inputting an order for merchandise at the customer request station, and (h) delivering the ordered merchandise at a merchandise delivery location disposed from the customer request station, wherein the customer request station, the cash delivery station, and the merchandise delivery location are arranged along a path at a facility, wherein the path is accessible to customers, and wherein at least one of the customer request station, cash delivery station, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to a customer while another of the customer request station, cash delivery station, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to another customer. 2. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising delivering an item of monetary value at the cash delivery station. 3. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising: inputting at the customer request station at least one input corresponding to a request to charge the source of monetary value for a value associated with the ordered merchandise; and charging the source of monetary value, the value of the ordered merchandise. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein in (b) a card corresponding to an account is input. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein in step (c) the identifying input includes indicia on the card, wherein in step (d) the indicia on the card is read using a card reader. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the customer request station, the cash delivery station and the merchandise delivery location are arranged along a drive-through lane, and further comprising driving between the customer request station, the cash delivery station and the merchandise delivery location. 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the cash delivery station is positioned between the customer request station and the merchandise delivery location in the drive-through lane. 8. The method according to claim 7 wherein the merchandise ordered at the customer request station and delivered at the merchandise delivery location includes food items. 9. The method according to claim 1 wherein in (b) the source of monetary value includes a check input to a check reading device at the customer request station. 10. The method according to claim 9 and further comprising reading a check value from the check, and operating the computer to reduce the check value by at least a merchandise value associated with the ordered merchandise to produce the amount. 11. The method according to claim 10 wherein in step (e) the portion of the amount corresponding to notes available in the cash dispensing device is dispensed. 12. The method according to claim 11 and farther comprising the step of delivering a balance of the amount not included in the portion, at a balance delivery location disposed from the cash delivery station. 13. The method according to claim 12 wherein the balance delivery location is proximate to the merchandise delivery location. 14. The method according to claim 1 wherein in (b) the source of monetary value includes cash input to a cash accepting device at the customer request station. 15. The method according to claim 14 and further comprising the step of determining a cash value associated with the cash input in step (b), and operating a computer to reduce the cash value by at least a merchandise value associated with the ordered merchandise to produce the amount. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein in step (e) the portion of the amount corresponding to bills available in the cash dispensing device is dispensed. 17. The method according to claim 16 and further comprising the step of delivering a balance of the amount not included in the portion at a balance delivery location disposed of the cash delivery station. 18. The method according to claim 17 wherein the balance delivery location is proximate to the merchandise delivery location. 19. The method according to claim 18 and further comprising the steps of placing the balance in a container and delivering the container with the merchandise. 20. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising: (i) delivering a code from the customer request station, wherein the code serves as the identifying input in (d). 21. The method according to claim 20 wherein in (i) the code is delivered on an item dispensed from a terminal at the customer request station. 22. The method according to 21 wherein in step (d) the item is input at the cash delivery station. 23. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising: (i) delivering an item at the customer request station, wherein in (d) the item is input to an item reading device at the cash delivery station. 24. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising: (i) receiving a user selected manual input through an input device at the customer request station, wherein the manual input is correlated as the identifying input in (c) and input to an input device of the cash delivery station in (d). 25. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of receiving a biometric input through a biometric reading device at the customer request station, wherein data corresponding to the biometric input is correlated in step (c) and input in step (d). 26. The method according to claim 25 wherein the biometric input received includes data corresponding to appearance features of a user's face. 27. The method according to claim 1 and further comprising receiving an input corresponding to a vehicle appearance feature of a vehicle adjacent the customer request station, wherein data corresponding to the vehicle appearance feature is correlated in (c) and input in (d). 28. The method according to claim 27 wherein the vehicle appearance feature includes at least one feature on a license tag. 29. The method according to claim 27 wherein the vehicle appearance feature includes a vehicle color. 30. The method according to claim 27 wherein the vehicle appearance feature includes at least one feature of an operator of the vehicle. 31. The method according to claim 1 wherein in step (b) the input corresponding to the source of monetary value includes an RF signal. 32. The method according to claim 1 wherein in step (c) and in step (d) the identifying input includes an RF signal. 33. The method according to claim 31 wherein in step (c) and in step (d) the identifying input includes the RF signal. 34. The method according to claim 31 wherein in step (b) the RF signal is produced by an article in a vehicle. 35. A method performed at a facility accessible to customers, wherein the facility includes an order location adapted to receive a customer order for a merchandise product, a request location, wherein the request location includes a self-service machine, wherein the request location is adapted to receive a customer request for a cash withdrawal, a pickup location, wherein the pickup location is disposed from the request location wherein the pickup location includes an automated dispensing machine, wherein the dispensing machine is adapted to dispense at least one item of monetary value, wherein the automated dispensing machine is customer accessible, a merchandise delivery location, wherein the merchandise delivery location is disposed from the order location and the request location, wherein at least one of the order location, request location, pickup location, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to a customer while another of the order location, request location, pickup location, and merchandise delivery location is accessible to another customer, wherein the method comprises: (a) ordering a merchandise product at the order location, (b) requesting a cash withdrawal via at least one customer accessible input device at the request location, (c) dispensing at least one item of monetary value at the pickup location, wherein the pickup location is operatively interfaced with the request location, wherein the amount of monetary value dispensed depends on the value of the merchandise product ordered in (a) and the value of the cash requested in (b), (d) subsequent to (b), delivering the ordered merchandise product at the merchandise delivery location. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein the order location and the request location are located at a customer request station, wherein the customer request station, the pickup location, and the merchandise delivery location are arranged along a drive-through lane, and further comprising driving between the customer request station, the pickup location, and the merchandise delivery location. 37. The method of claim 35 wherein (c) includes dispensing cash. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the dispensed cash is the difference in the amount of the requested cash in (b) and the amount of the merchandise ordered in (a). 39. The method of claim 35 wherein (c) includes dispensing a voucher. 40. A method comprising: (a) ordering a merchandise product, (b) inputting through at least one customer accessible input device a request for a cash withdrawal from an account, (c) subsequent to (a) and (b), receiving at a location at a facility only a portion of the requested cash, wherein the value of cash received depends on the value of the merchandise product ordered in (a) and the value of the cash requested in (b), wherein the location is remote from the at least one input device, (d) subsequent to (a) and (b), receiving at the facility the merchandise product ordered in (a). 41. A method performed at a facility accessible to customers, wherein the facility includes at least one customer order station and a cash delivery station arranged along a vehicle drive-through lane, wherein the cash delivery station is remote from at least one customer order station, wherein the method comprises: (a) ordering at least one food product at a customer order station; (b) ordering cash via at least one customer accessible input device at a customer order station; (c) dispensing an amount of cash at the cash delivery station from an automated cash dispensing device responsive to both the order in (a) and the order in (b), wherein the cash dispensing device is customer accessible. 42. A method comprising (a) receiving an order for a merchandise product at a customer order station at a facility; (b) receiving a request for a cash withdrawal from an account via at least one customer accessible input device at the customer order station; (c) dispensing at a cash pickup station at least a portion of the requested cash from an automated cash dispensing device responsive to the order in (a) and the request in (b), wherein the cash dispensing device is customer accessible, and wherein the cash pickup station is disposed from the customer order station at the facility; (d) subsequent to (a) and (b), delivering the merchandise product ordered in (a) at a merchandise product pickup station, wherein the merchandise product pickup station is disposed from the customer order station and the cash pickup station at the facility, and wherein at least one of the customer order station, cash pickup station, and merchandise product pickup station is accessible to a customer while another of the customer order station, cash pickup station, and merchandise product pickup station is accessible to another customer. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein (d) is subsequent to (c). 44. A method performed at a facility accessible to customers, wherein the facility includes a customer order station, wherein the customer order station is adapted to receive a customer order for a merchandise product, wherein the customer order station is adapted to receive a customer request for a cash withdrawal from an account, and wherein the customer order station includes at least one customer accessible input device; a cash pickup station, wherein the cash pickup station includes an automated cash dispensing device, wherein the cash dispensing device is customer accessible, and wherein the cash pickup station is disposed from the customer order station at the facility; a merchandise product pickup station, wherein the merchandise product pickup station is disposed from the customer order station and the cash pickup station at the facility, and wherein at least one of the customer order station, cash pickup station, and merchandise product pickup station is accessible to a customer while another of the customer order station, cash pickup station, and merchandise product pickup station is accessible to another customer; wherein the method comprises: (a) indicating a merchandise product order at the customer order station; (b) indicating a request for a cash withdrawal from an account via the at least one input device at the customer order station; (c) dispensing at the cash pickup station at least a portion of the requested cash from the automated cash dispensing device responsive to the request in (b); (d) subsequent to (a) and (b), delivering the merchandise product ordered in (a) at the merchandise product pickup station. 45. The method of claim 44 wherein the facility includes a vehicle drive-through lane, and wherein the customer order station, the cash pickup station, and the merchandise product pickup station are arranged along the vehicle drive-through lane. 46. The method of claim 45 wherein (c) comprises dispensing a portion of the requested cash depending on the value of the merchandise product ordered in (a) and the value of the cash requested in (b). 47. The method of claim 45 wherein (b) is subsequent to (a), and wherein (d) is subsequent to (c). 48. The method of claim 47 wherein (a) comprises receiving an order for a food product at the customer order station, and wherein (d) comprises delivering at least one food product. 