An apparatus for processing a workpiece in a micro-environment includes a workpiece housing connected to a motor for rotation. The workpiece housing forms a substantially closed processing chamber where processing fluids are distributed across at least one face of the workpiece by centrifugal force generated during rotation of the housing. The housing may also be detached from the motor and moved to another location. The housing consequently serves as a processing chamber, as well as a storage or transport chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a rotor portion; a process housing attachable to the rotor portion for rotation, and detachable from the rotor portion for transport, with the process housing including: a first chamber member; a second chamber; the first chamber member engageable with the second chamber member to form a process chamber between them; and at least one inlet in the process chamber; at least one outlet in the process chamber. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of first spacing members extending from the first interior chamber face; a plurality of second spacing members extending from the second interior chamber face towards the first interior chamber face. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a flange on the first chamber member engageable by at least one support member on the rotor portion, to attach the process housing to the rotor portion. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the process housing is substantially closed. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the process housing conforms to the shape of the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the inlet extends through the first chamber member. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first chamber member further comprises sidewalls extending towards the second chamber member. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 where the at least one outlet extends through the sidewalls. 9. The apparatus of claim 5 with the first chamber member having a first interior face and the second chamber member having a second interior chamber face parallel to the first interior chamber face. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the first and second interior chamber faces are planar. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a seal on the at least one inlet and on the at least one outlet. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the seal comprises a slit diaphragm. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one inlet comprises a nozzle. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a rotational valve member rotatable to seal the at least one outlet during transport of the process housing, and to unseal the at least one outlet during processing of a workpiece within the process housing. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 with the rotor portion further comprising a motor for rotating the process housing. 16. An apparatus for processing a workpiece comprising: a rotor portion; a process housing attachable to the rotor portion for rotation by the rotor portion, and detachable from the rotor portion for transport, with the process housing including: a first chamber member; a second chamber; the first chamber member engageable with the second chamber member to form a process chamber between them; at least one inlet in the process chamber; at least one outlet in the process chamber; and with the first chamber member having a first planar interior face and the second chamber member having a second planar interior chamber face parallel to the first interior chamber face. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the process housing is substantially closed. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the process housing conforms to the shape of the workpiece. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the inlet extends through the first chamber member. 20. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the first chamber member further comprises sidewalls extending towards the second chamber member. 21. The apparatus of claim 16 where the at least one outlet extends through the sidewalls. 22. The apparatus of claim 16 furthur comprising: a plurality of first spacing members extending from the first interior chamber face; a plurality of second spacing members extending from the second interior chamber face towards the first interior chamber face. 23. An apparatus for holding a workpiece comprising: a process housing including: a first chamber member; a second chamber; the first chamber member engageable with the second chamber member to form a process chamber between them; at least one inlet in the process chamber; at least one outlet in the process chamber; and with the first chamber member having a first planar interior face and the second chamber member having a second planar interior chamber face parallel to the first interior chamber face. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising means for attaching the process housing to a rotor portion, for rotating the process housing. 