A pool or tank cleaner that is propelled by means of one or more water jets is directed in one or more predetermined systematic scanning patterns of either straight, curvilinear, or combinations of both, by an apparatus and method that controls and varies the directional discharge of one or more water jets that propel the cleaner in its translational movement. The direction of the discharge of the propelling water jet is changed by mechanical sensors, electrical sensors, or by interrupting the water pump. Further variations in the direction of translational movement of the cleaner are effected by wheels and/or axles that are adjustably mounted to respond to changes in the translational movement of the cleaner.
Claims We claim: 1. A self-propelled cleaning apparatus for cleaning the submerged bottom surface of a pool or tank, said apparatus being is propelled by the discharge of a water jet, the apparatus comprising: a water pump with a pump discharge outlet for emitting a pressurized stream of water, the axis of the pressurized stream discharged from the pump discharge outlet being generally normal to the surface of the pool or tank; a directional discharge conduit in fluid communication with the pump discharge outlet, the discharge conduit having at least one discharge opening through which the water jet is directionally discharged from the apparatus, the axis of the portion of the discharge conduit proximate the at least one conduit discharge opening being generally normal to the axis of the pressurized stream exiting the pump discharge outlet; and a water jet valve located between the pump discharge outlet and the at least one discharge opening in the discharge conduit, the water jet valve being operable between first and second discharge positions to direct the water jet in generally opposite directions, whereby the pressurized water stream discharged from the pump discharge outlet undergoes only one right-angle change of direction before being discharged from the apparatus to move over the bottom surface of the pool in a direction that is determined by the position of the water jet valve. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the discharge conduit has at least two longitudinal discharge openings, each of which discharge openings is located at opposite ends of the discharge conduit and which create a longitudinal force vector in the water jet discharged from said openings. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 in which the water jet valve comprises at least one deflector member moveable between a first operating position and a second operating position, whereby movement of the deflector member from the first position to the second position effects the movement of water from one to the other of the at least two discharge openings. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 where the deflector member comprises a flap valve assembly mounted on the interior of the discharge conduit between the longitudinal discharge openings and in fluid communication with the water pump discharge outlet, said flap valve assembly comprising control means for alternating the flow of water from the discharge outlet of the pump to one or the other of the at least two directional discharge openings. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 where the water jet valve is operable between the first and second discharge positions in response to an interruption of the water stream from the pump discharge outlet. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 in which the flap valve assembly control means comprises a pivotally-mounted flap member and a plurality of bias-mounted flap positioning members mounted on the interior of the discharge conduit, said positioning members being responsive to the force of water flowing through said valve assembly. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 where the flap member is mounted on the interior of the discharge conduit opposite the flap positioning members. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 where each of the flap positioning members is mounted for rotation through an arc of approximately 180.degree.. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 where the flap positioning members are pivotally mounted and are biased by springs. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 where the free ends of each of the flap positioning members extend into, and intersect the path defined by the movement of the flap member. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 where the flap member and the flap positioning members are mounted on the sidewalls of the discharge conduit. 12. The apparatus of claim 6 which further comprises an intermediate conduit that intersects the directional discharge conduit opposite the flap valve assembly, the intermediate fluid conduit being in fluid communication with the discharge outlet of the water pump and the directional discharge conduit. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 which further comprises at least one vertical discharge outlet proximate the pivotally mounted end of the flap member. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 which comprises two vertical discharge outlets located on opposite downstream sides of the flap member. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 which further comprises a bias-mounted closure member in sealing relation with each of the vertical discharge outlets, whereby the closure member opens in response to a predetermined pressure on the interior of the directional discharge conduit to permit the passage of water through the vertical discharge outlet. 16. The apparatus of claim 2 in which the discharge conduit has at least one vertical discharge outlet spaced inwardly from the ends of the discharge conduit. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 which further comprises vertical discharge flow control means associated with the at least one vertical discharge outlet for varying the volume of water passing through the vertical discharge outlet. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 in which the vertical discharge flow control means comprises at least one movable closure member for varying the size of the vertical discharge outlet. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 in which the at least one moveable closure member is manually adjustable. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 in which the at least one moveable closure member is bias-mounted against the force of water entering the discharge conduit. 21. The apparatus of claim 3 in which the direction of discharge of the water is changed by directional control means that are responsive to the proximity of the apparatus to a side wall of the pool being cleaned. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 in which the directional control means comprises a flap valve joined by a mechanical linkage to a plurality of external sensors extending in the direction of movement of the apparatus. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 in which at least one of the external sensors extends beyond the periphery of the apparatus to contact a side wall of the pool as the apparatus approaches the side wall. 24. The apparatus of claim 22 in which at least on e of the sensors is slidably mounted for movement in a plane that is parallel to the base of the apparatus and terminates in a tip end that extends beyond the periphery of the apparatus in the direction of movement to contact a side wall of the pool as the apparatus approaches the side wall. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 in which the mechanical linkage comprises means for translating a sliding movement of a least one of the sensors into a rotational movement to change the position of the flap valve, and thereby reverse the direction of the water discharged from the discharge conduit. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 in which the mechanical linkage further comprises biasing means in association with the flap valve to positively seat the flap valve in a second position when the flap valve is moved a predetermined distance from a first position. 27. The apparatus of claim 21 where the directional control means comprises an infrared light source, an infrared light sensor and a circuit associated with the sensor to receive and transmit a signal from the sensor to the directional control means, whereby infrared light reflected from an adjacent pool side wall detected by the sensor causes the apparatus to reverse direction. 28. The apparatus of claim 21 where the directional control means comprises a moving magnetic member, a magnetic sensor and a circuit associated with the sensor to receive and transmit a signal from the sensor to the directional control means, whereby a variation in the movement of the magnetic member detected by the sensor causes the apparatus to change direction. 29. The apparatus of claim 21 where the directional control means comprises a mercury switch and an associated circuit to receive and transmit a signal from the mercury switch to the directional control means, whereby a change in the orientation of the apparatus that activates the mercury switch produces a signal that causes the apparatus to change direction. 30. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the directional discharge conduit is generally T-shaped and consists of a support portion and a cross portion, the supporting portion of the conduit being mounted in fluid communication with the pump discharge outlet. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the water jet valve is located internally at the intersection of the support portion and the cross portion of the discharge conduit. 