A system and method for directing the improvisational behavior of a computer-controlled character which enables the character to reflect personality, mood, and other life-like qualities. The method includes the step of storing in the system a set of possible behaviors for the character and state data representative of a current state of the character. The possible behaviors include both physical and verbal behaviors. The current state includes the character's current mood, directing state, activity state, and location in a virtual world. The method also includes the step of identifying from the set of possible behaviors a subset of feasible behaviors for the character in the current state. Each of the feasible behaviors is evaluated to determine a respective desirability rating of the feasible behavior in the current state. The method further includes the step of selecting a behavior to be executed by the character from the subset of feasible behaviors. The behavior to be executed is selected in dependence upon its desirability rating.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for selecting a behavior to be executed by an improvisational character, the system comprising: a) a memory means for storing a set of possible behaviors for the character and for storing state data representative of a current state of the character; and b) a processor means in communication with the memory means for selecting the behavior to be executed from the set of possible behaviors, the processor means including an identification means for identifying from the set of possible behaviors a subset of feasible behaviors for the character in the current state, an evaluation means for determining for each of the feasible behaviors a respective desirability rating of the feasible behavior in the current state, and a selection means for selecting the behavior to be executed from the subset of feasible behaviors, wherein the behavior to be executed is selected in dependence upon its desirability rating. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state comprises a current mood of the character and the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current mood. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state comprises a current mood of the character and the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current mood. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state comprises a directing state, the state data includes a current behavioral direction for the character, and the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in dependence upon the behavioral direction. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the memory means further stores for each of the feasible behaviors a respective attribute value of the feasible behavior, the behavioral direction constrains the attribute value of the behavior to be executed by the character, and the evaluation means includes means for comparing the attribute value of each of the feasible behaviors to the behavioral direction to determine the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the memory means further stores instructions for updating the behavioral direction in response to a specified event, and wherein the processor means further includes means for updating the behavioral direction when the event occurs. 7. The system of claim 4, further comprising an interface connected to the processor means for receiving the behavioral direction from an external source. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the interface comprises a system interface and the external source comprises another computer system connected to the system interface. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the interface comprises a user interface and the external source comprises a user. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor means includes means for presenting directing alternatives to the external source through the interface. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor means further includes means for determining which of the directing alternatives are feasible in the current state and means for selecting each of the directing alternatives for presentation in dependence upon its feasibility. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state comprises an activity state of the character, and wherein the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the activity state. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state includes a current physical position of the character, and wherein the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current physical position. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state includes a current location of the character in a virtual world, wherein the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current location. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state comprises an activity state of the character, and wherein the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in dependence upon the activity state. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state includes a current physical position of the character, and wherein the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current physical position. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the current state includes a current location of the character in a virtual world, wherein the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current location. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the selection means includes means for selecting the behavior to be executed with a selection probability that is an increasing function of the desirability rating of the behavior. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the selection means includes means for selecting the behavior to be executed as the feasible behavior having the highest desirability rating. 20. A method for selecting a behavior to be executed by an improvisational character, the method comprising the computer implemented steps of: a) storing in a computer system a set of possible behaviors for the character and state data representative of a current state of the character; b) identifying from the set of possible behaviors a subset of feasible behaviors for the character in the current state; c) determining for each of the feasible behaviors a respective desirability rating of the feasible behavior in the current state; and d) selecting the behavior to be executed from the subset of feasible behaviors, wherein the behavior to be executed is selected in dependence upon its desirability rating. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the current state comprises a current mood of the character and wherein the subset of feasible behaviors is identified in dependence upon the current mood. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state comprises a current mood of the character, and wherein the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors is determined in dependence upon the current mood. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state includes a directing state, the state data includes a current behavioral direction for the character, and the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors is determined in dependence upon the behavioral direction. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the method further includes the step of storing for each of the feasible behaviors a respective attribute value of the feasible behavior, the behavioral direction constrains the attribute value of the behavior to be executed, and the step of determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors includes the step of comparing the attribute value of each of the feasible behaviors to the behavioral direction. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the steps of storing in the computer system instructions to update the behavioral direction in response to a specified event and updating the behavioral direction when the event occurs. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the computer system includes an interface and the method further comprising the step of receiving the behavioral direction from an external source through the interface. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the interface comprises a user interface and the external source comprises a user. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the interface comprises a system interface and the external source comprises another computer system in communication with the system interface. 29. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of presenting directing alternatives to the external source through the interface. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of determining which of the directing alternatives are feasible in the current state and selecting the directing alternatives for presentation in dependence upon their feasibility. 31. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state comprises an activity state of the character, and wherein the subset of feasible behaviors is identified in dependence upon the activity state. 32. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state includes a current physical position of the character, and wherein the subset of feasible behaviors is identified in dependence upon the current physical position. 33. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state includes a current location of the character in a virtual world, wherein the subset of feasible behaviors is identified in dependence upon the current location. 34. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state comprises an activity state of the character, and wherein the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors is determined in dependence upon the activity state. 35. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state includes a current physical position of the character, and wherein the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors is determined in dependence upon the current physical position. 36. The method of claim 20, wherein the current state includes a current location of the character in a virtual world, wherein the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors is determined in dependence upon the current location. 37. The method of claim 20, wherein the behavior to be executed is selected with a selection probability that is an increasing function of the desirability rating of the behavior. 38. The method of claim 20, wherein the behavior to be executed is selected as the feasible behavior having the highest desirability rating. 39. A system for directing the improvisational behavior of a computer-controlled character, the system comprising: a) a memory means for storing state data representative of a current state of the character, a set of possible behaviors for the character, and for each of the possible behaviors, a respective attribute value of the possible behavior; b) a direction means for setting a behavioral direction for the character, the behavioral direction constraining the attribute value of a behavior to be executed by the character; and c) a processor means connected to the memory means and the direction means for selecting the behavior to be executed from the set of possible behaviors, the processor means comprising: i) an identification means for identifying from the set of possible behaviors a subset of feasible behaviors for the character in the current state; ii) an evaluation means for comparing the attribute value of each of the feasible behaviors to the behavioral direction to determine for each of the feasible behaviors a respective desirability rating of the feasible behavior in the current state; and iii) a selection means for selecting the behavior to be executed from the subset of feasible behaviors, wherein the behavior to be executed is selected in dependence upon its desirability rating. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the memory means further stores instructions for updating the behavioral direction in response to a specified event, and wherein the direction means includes means for updating the behavioral direction when the event occurs. 41. The system of claim 39, wherein the direction means includes a system interface for receiving the behavioral direction from another computer system. 42. The system of claim 39, wherein the direction means includes a user interface for receiving the behavioral direction from a user. 43. The system of claim 39, wherein the direction means includes an interface, and wherein the processor means includes means for presenting directing alternatives to an external source through the interface. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein the processor means further includes means for determining which of the directing alternatives are feasible in the current state and means for selecting each of the directing alternatives for presentation in dependence upon its feasibility. 45. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state comprises a current mood of the character and the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current mood. 46. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state comprises a current mood of the character and the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in further dependence upon the current mood. 47. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state includes an activity state of the character, and wherein the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the activity state. 48. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state includes a current physical position of the character, and wherein the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current physical position. 49. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state includes a current location of the character in a virtual world, wherein the identification means includes means for identifying the subset of feasible behaviors in dependence upon the current location. 50. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state comprises an activity state of the character, and wherein the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in further dependence upon the activity state. 51. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state includes a current physical position of the character, and wherein the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in further dependence upon the current physical position. 52. The system of claim 39, wherein the current state includes a current location of the character in a virtual world, wherein the evaluation means includes means for determining the desirability rating of each of the feasible behaviors in further dependence upon the current location. 53. The system of claim 39, wherein the selection means includes means for selecting the behavior to be executed with a selection probability that is an increasing function of the desirability rating of the behavior. 54. The system of claim 39, wherein the selection means includes means for selecting the behavior to be executed as the feasible behavior having the highest desirability rating. 