An object oriented motion system for controlling the movement of a robotic manipulator is presented. The motion system includes a trajectory generator object for producing a stream of machine joint commands. A kinematics object is operable to provide a set of robotic arm specific functions for the trajectory generator object. A servo object provides an interface to the servo system. The stream of machine motor commands are converted by the servo object to a stream of signals that drive the servo system, thereby controlling the trajectory of the robot arm.
Claims We claim: 1. A motion system for controlling the movement of a robot arm through a servo system, comprising: an object oriented motion system implemented as a plurality of software objects each encapsulating both functional implementation code and associated internal data structures: wherein said plurality of software objects include the following software objects: a trajectory generator object for producing a stream of machine motor commands; a kinematics object operable to provide as et of robot arm specific functions for said trajectory generator objects; and as servo object for interfacing to the servo system, such that the stream of machine motor commands are converted to a stream of signals to operate the robot arm. 2. The motion system of claim 1 further comprising a calibration object activable to calibrate the robot arm. 3. The motion system of claim 1 further comprising a motion manager for controlling application logins and distributing incoming messages to the trajectory generator object. 4. The motion system of claim 1 wherein the kinematics object set of functions are selected from the group of: forward and inverse kinematics, forward and inverse velocity calculations using full Jacobians, motor/joint space conversions, and setting/retrieving machine specific data. 5. A computer-implemented system for a trajectory generator operable to plan a trajectory for a robotic arm, comprising: a motion object create in response to a motion request, said motion object activable to implement motion specific functions and motion specific data structures for said trajectory generator; said motion object being operative to create a profile object for computing a speed profile for the trajectory that satisfies user requested constraints; and a weave object for controlling the superposition of a predefined waveform upon the trajectory. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the motion object hierarchically defines motion as a set of sub-objects operable to implement said motion specific functions and data structures. 7. The system of claim 5 further comprising a Cartesian motion object for controlling a translational motion of the trajectory. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the Cartesian motion includes an orientation and the system further comprises an orientation object for controlling the orientation of the Catesian motion. 9. The system of claim 5 further comprising a joint motion object for controlling a joint motion of the trajectory. 10. The system of claim 7 wherein the Cartesian object further includes a Cartesian motion group object selected from the group of: Arc, Cartesian Blend, Line, and LineDir. 11. The system of claim 9 wherein the joint object further includes a joint motion group object selected from the group of: Joint, Joint Blend, and JointDir. 