A self-organizing control system suitable for nonlinear control of a physical object is described. The control system calculates the entropy production difference between a time differentiation (dS.sub.u /dt) of the entropy inside the controlled object and a time differentiation (dS.sub.c /dt) of the entropy given to the controlled object from a PID controller that controls the object. The entropy production difference is used to generate an evolving control rule by using the entropy production difference as a performance function for a genetic optimizer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-organizing method for controlling a nonlinear plant, comprising the steps of: obtaining a difference between a time differentiation (dS.sub.u /dt) of the entropy of a plant and a time differentiation (dS.sub.c /dt) of the entropy provided to the plant from a low-level controller that controls the plant; evolving a control rule by using an evolution in a genetic algorithm, said genetic algorithm using said difference as a performance function to minimize said difference; and using said control rule of a fuzzy controller to develop a gain schedule for said low-level controller. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: analyzing one or more nonlinear operation characteristics of said physical plant by using a Lyapunov function; and correcting said control rule based on an evolution. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: evolving a control rule relative to a variable of said low-level controller by means of a genetic algorithm, said genetic algorithm using fitness function that reduces a difference between a time differentiation of an entropy of said plant (dS.sub.u /dt) and a time differentiation (dS.sub.c /dt) of an entropy provided to said plant from said low-level controller; and correcting a variable of said low-level controller based on said evolved control rule. 4. A control apparatus adapted to control a nonlinear plant, comprising: a simulator configured to use a thermodynamic model of an equation of motion for a nonlinear plant, said thermodynamic model based on a Lyapunov function (V), said simulator further configured to analyze control for a state stability of said plant, calculate an entropy production amount based on a difference between a time differentiation of entropy of said plant (dS.sub.u /dt) and a time differentiation (dS.sub.c /dt) of an entropy provided to said plant from a low-level controller that controls said plant, and using a genetic algorithm to obtain an adaptation function in which said difference is minimized, said genetic algorithm using a fitness function configured to minimize said difference; and a fuzzy logic classifier configured to determine a fuzzy rule by using a learning process, said fuzzy logic classifier configured to use an output from said simulation part as a teaching signal, said fuzzy logic controller further configured to form a control rule that sets a variable gain of said controller by following said fuzzy rule. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said simulator further comprises: an entropy calculator configured to compute a difference between a time differentiation of an entropy S.sub.u of said plant and time differentiation of an entropy S.sub.c of a control signal provided to said plant from said low-level controller based on information obtained from said plant; and a genetic algorithm calculator configured to evolve said teaching signal by using said difference as a performance function. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said fuzzy logic classifier comprises: a fuzzy neural network configured to form a look-up table for said fuzzy rule by using said learning process; and a fuzzy controller configured to generating a variable gain schedule for said controller that controls said plant. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said low-level controller is a linear controller. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said low-level controller is a PID controller. 9. An apparatus comprising: a plant; a low-level controller that controls said plant; means for calculating a difference between a time differentiation of the entropy of said plant and a time differentiation of the entropy provided by said low-level controller; means for calculating a control rule by an evolution in a genetic algorithm, said genetic algorithm using a fitness function that reduces said difference; and a fuzzy logic classifier configured to use said control rule to compute a gain schedule for said low-level controller. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said fuzzy logic classifier comprises a fuzzy neural network. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said fuzzy logic classifier comprises a fuzzy controller. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said low-level controller is a PID controller. 13. A method for controlling a plant, the method comprising: obtaining a difference between a time differentiation of the entropy of a plant and a time differentiation of the entropy provided to the plant from a low-level controller that controls the plant; providing said difference to a genetic optimizer, said genetic optimizer configured to evolve a control rule by using a fitness function that causes said genetic optimizer to produce a chromosome corresponding to a control rule of a fuzzy controller that reduces said difference; and using said control rule to configure a gain schedule for said low-level controller. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said gain schedule is computed by a fuzzy controller, said fuzzy controller configured by a fuzzy neural network. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein said plant is a nonlinear plant. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said plant is a nonlinear plant and a simulator is configured to use a thermodynamic model of an equation of motion for said plant, said thermodynamic model based on a Lyapunov function to calculate said time differentiation of the entropy of said plant and said time differentiation of the entropy provided to said plant. 