A robot failure diagnosing system in which sound input by the user is interpreted/recognized by a command recognizing section in order to notify a request for a diagnosis to a self-diagnosis section. For example, the user can input a command which prompts a self-diagnosis operation in the form of a natural communication, such as by saying, "Perform a self-diagnosis operation," and by asking, "How do you feel, robot?" With respect to this, the robot can indicate the self-diagnosis result in the form of a natural conversation, such as by saying, "I'm not feeling well," "My leg hurts," and "I'm hungry." The robot failure diagnosing system performs a self-diagnosis of a failure or abnormality in a system, and feeds back the diagnosis result to the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot failure diagnosing system which comprises a plurality of joint actuators, the system further comprising: request input means for inputting a request for a failure diagnosis thereto; measuring means for measuring the state of at least one of the plurality of joint actuators inside of a robot; diagnosing means for diagnosing the failure of the robot in response to the request for a failure diagnosis which has been input to the request input means; and diagnosis result outputting means for outputting a failure diagnosis result given by the diagnosing means to anything outside the system. 2. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the request input means receives the request through sound. 3. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the request input means receives the request from an external system through a communications interface. 4. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes an encoder for measuring the angle of each joint actuator; and wherein the diagnosing means diagnoses the failure based on a deviation of each current joint angle output from the encoder from a corresponding target joint angle which is prescribed with respect to each joint actuator. 5. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes a temperature sensor for measuring the temperature of the inside of each joint actuator, and wherein the diagnosing means determines that a failure has occurred in each joint actuator when each temperature measured by the temperature sensor exceeds a corresponding prescribed value. 6. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the robot is a battery-actuating-type robot, wherein the measuring means includes a supply voltage detecting section for measuring a terminal voltage of a battery or the supply voltage supplied to each joint actuator from the battery, and wherein the diagnosing means determines that a power supply abnormality has occurred when the voltage detected by the supply voltage detecting section falls outside a corresponding prescribed value. 7. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes a posture sensor for detecting an azimuthal angle of at least one of a pitch axis, a roll axis, and a yaw axis of the robot, and wherein the diagnosing means determines that an abnormal posture has occurred when the azimuthal angle detected by the posture sensor falls outside a corresponding prescribed value. 8. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes an image input device, and wherein the diagnosing means performs a diagnosis based on a result which has been recognized from an input image which is provided at the image input means. 9. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes an image input device, and wherein the diagnosing means performs a diagnosis based on a piece of object-related information which has been recognized from an input image which is provided at the image input means. 10. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes an image input device, and wherein the diagnosing means performs a diagnosis based on a piece of color information which has been recognized from an input image which is provided at the image input means. 11. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the measuring means includes at least one of a contact sensor and a power sensor, and wherein the diagnosing means determines that an abnormality has occurred when the output of either the contact sensor or the power sensor exceeds a prescribed value corresponding thereto. 12. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the diagnosis result outputting means outputs the diagnosis result using sound. 13. A robot failure diagnosing system according to claim 1, wherein the diagnosis result outputting means outputs the diagnosis result to an external system through a communications interface. 