Sequencing by Hybridization (SBH) methods and apparatus employing subdivided filters for discrete multiple probe analysis of multiple samples may be used for DNA identification and for DNA sequencing. Partitioned filters are prepared. Samples are affixed to sections of partitioned filters and each sector is probed with a single probe or a multiplexed probe for hybridization scoring. Hybridization data is analyzed for probe complementarity, partial sequencing by SBH or complete sequencing by SBH.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for analyzing a target nucleic acid by hybridization, comprising the steps of: contacting an array of probes fixed on a substrate with the target nucleic acid under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the fixed probes being shorter than the target nucleic acid, wherein a horizontal electrical field is applied to the array, parallel to the substrate, during at least a portion of said contacting step; exposing the array of probes and the target nucleic acid with a labeled probe under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch; covalently joining fixed and labeled probes that hybridize contiguously to the same target nucleic acid molecule; and analyzing the result. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of washing said substrate prior to said exposing step, said washing step including the application of a vertical electric field for restricting movement of the target nucleic acid. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the exposing step further comprises applying vertical electrical pulses, perpendicular to the plane of the substrate, to prevent diffusion of the target nucleic acid. 4. A method for analyzing target nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: contacting an array of probes fixed on a substrate with a pool of target nucleic acids under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the fixed probes being shorter than at least one of the target nucleic acids in said pool of target nucleic acids, wherein a horizontal electrical field is applied to the array, parallel to the substrate, during at least a portion of said contacting step; exposing the array of probes and the pool of target nucleic acids with a labeled probe, under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch; covalently joining fixed and labeled probes that hybridize contiguously to the same target nucleic acid molecule; and analyzing the result. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of washing said substrate prior to said exposing step, said washing step including the application of a vertical electric field for restricting movement of the target nucleic acid. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the exposing step further comprises applying vertical electrical pulses, perpendicular to the plane of the substrate, to prevent diffusion of the target nucleic acid. 7. A method for analyzing a target nucleic acid by hybridization, comprising the steps of: contacting an array of probes fixed on a substrate with said target nucleic acid under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the fixed probes being shorter than the target nucleic acid, wherein a horizontal electrical field is applied to the array, parallel to the substrate, during at least a portion of said contacting step; exposing the array of probes and the target nucleic acid with a pool of labeled probes, under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch; covalently joining fixed and labeled probes that hybridize contiguously to the same target nucleic acid molecule; and analyzing the result. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of washing said substrate prior to said exposing step, said washing step including the application of a vertical electric field for restricting movement of the target nucleic acid. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the exposing step further comprises applying vertical electrical pulses, perpendicular to the plane of the substrate, to prevent diffusion of the target nucleic acid. 10. A method for analyzing target nucleic acids by hybridization, comprising the steps of: contacting an array of probes fixed on a substrate with a pool of target nucleic acids under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch, the fixed probes being shorter than at least one of the target nucleic acids in the pool of target nucleic acids, wherein a horizontal electrical field is applied to the array, parallel to the substrate, during at least a portion of said contacting step; exposing the array of probes and the target nucleic acids with a pool of labeled probes, under hybridization conditions discriminating between full complementarity and a one base mismatch; covalently joining fixed and labeled probes that hybridize contiguously to the same target nucleic acid molecule; and analyzing the result. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of washing said substrate prior to said exposing step, said washing step including the application of a vertical electric field for restricting movement of the target nucleic acid. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the exposing step further comprises applying vertical electrical pulses, perpendicular to the plane of the substrate, to prevent diffusion of the target nucleic acid. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said substrate comprises a plurality of distinct sections or separate supports and said array of probes is formed by fixing a different specific set of probes onto each said distinct section or separate support of said substrate. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein each said different specific set of probes comprises between about 1 probe and about 10,000 probes. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein each said different specific set of probes is selected from among the probes in a universal probe set. 16. The method of claim 4 wherein said substrate comprises a plurality of distinct sections or separate supports and said array of probes is formed by fixing a different specific set of probes onto each said distinct section or separate support of said substrate. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein each said different specific set of probes comprises between about 1 probe and about 10,000 probes. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein each said different specific set of probes is selected from among the probes in a universal probe set. 19. The method of claim 7 wherein said substrate comprises a plurality of distinct sections or separate supports and said array of probes is formed by fixing a different specific set of probes onto each said distinct section or separate support of said substrate. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein each said different specific set of probes comprises between about 1 probe and about 10,000 probes. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein each said different specific set of probes is selected from among the probes in a universal probe set. 22. The method of claim 10 wherein said substrate comprises a plurality of distinct sections or separate supports and said array of probes is formed by fixing a different specific set of probes onto each said distinct section or separate support of said substrate. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein each said different specific set of probes comprises between about 1 probe and about 10,000 probes. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein each said different specific set of probes is selected from among the probes in a universal probe set. 25. The method of claim 1 wherein said horizontal electric field is pulsed. 26. The method of claim 4 wherein said horizontal electric field is pulsed. 27. The method of claim 7 wherein said horizontal electric field is pulsed. 28. The method of claim 10 wherein said horizontal electric field is pulsed. 29. The method of claim 1 wherein said target nucleic acid is not amplified. 30. The method of claim 4 wherein said target nucleic acid is not amplified. 31. The method of claim 7 wherein said target nucleic acid is not amplified. 32. The method of claim 10 wherein said target nucleic acid is not amplified. 