A method and apparatus for bundling layered material comprises an anvil for receiving multiple units of bundled material, and a plurality of blades for compressing a tying material onto the bundled material. An apparatus of the invention is illustrated for use in a specific method of simultaneously stapling the end wire of a plurality of tire beads.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for bundling of multi-layered material, said apparatis comprising: (a) an anvil with a specific shape for containing multi-layered material in a specific configuration, (b) tying means for tying said multi-layered material in a bundle, said tying means being stored on the apparatus in proximity to said anvil, (c) at least one blade in the proximity of said anvil, said at least one blade having a specific shape that together with the shape of the anvil accommodates the shape of said bundle, said at least one blade and said anvil being movable relative to one another, wherein said typing means is disposed between said at least one blade and said anvil, and (d) means for activating said apparatus such that the anvil and at least one blade come together to confine the multi-layered material, while said typing means is simultaneously pressed between said anvil and said at least one blade and around said layered material characterized in that said anvil has a plurality of trough shaped areas for containing said multi-layered material, each said area comprising an arced shape having a diameter of 0.762 to 2.03 cm (0.3 to 0.8 inch), which are adapted to be used in conjunction with said at least one blade, said at least one blade having a notched end, said notched end having an arced shape and a diameter of 0.254 to 2.03 cm (0.1 to 0.8 inch). 2. The apparatus of claim 1 characterized in that said tying means is a horseshoe shaped wire staple. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 characterized in that staples are contained on said apparatus in a guide under constant tension, whereby when a blade is withdrawn from the proximity of the anvil and past the staples, said tension causes a staple to move between the blade and said anvil. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 characterized in that said tension is provided by free weights attached to a cable, said cable being strung through a center of a plurality of staples and attached to a stop contact adjacent the last staple in said guide. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 characterized in that a guide bar is provided above said staples to partially control the movement of a staple into position between said anvil and said blade. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 characterized in that the means for activating said apparatus is a pneumatic cylinder which provides compressed air for moving said anvil and said blades into proximity to one another and for compressing said tying means onto said multi-layered material. 