An implantable medical device such as a defibrillator is described. The device includes an hermetically sealed housing containing a flat electrolytic capacitor and an energy source such as a battery. The battery is connected to the capacitor and provides charge thereto. The capacitor stores the charge at a relatively high voltage. The charge stored in the capacitor is discharged through a defibrillation lead to a site on or in the heart when fibrillation of the heart is detected by the implantable medical device. Methods of making and using the implantable medical device, the capacitor, and their various components are disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A hermetically sealed implantable medical device, comprising: (a) a hermetically sealed housing; (b) an energy source disposed within the housing; (c) a substantially flat electrolytic capacitor electrically connected to the energy source and disposed within the housing, the capacitor comprising: (i) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (ii) a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces; (iii) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (iv) an electrolyte; (v) a case having inner and outer sidewalls extending upwardly from a flat planar base to form an open end terminating in an upper edge disposed between the inner and outer sidewalls and extending around the periphery of the case; (vi) a substantially planar cover for sealing the open end of the case, the cover comprising upper and lower surfaces separated by an outer edge, the lower surface of the cover having disposed thereon at least one of a groove and a stepped portion, the at least one of the groove or the stepped portion being disposed radially inward from the outer edge, outer portions of the cover extending between the outer edge and the groove or the stepped portion, the outer portions of the cover being crimped or folded downwardly over at least portions of the outer sidewall of the case to form a joint after the cover is placed on the open end of the can, the joint being laser welded to hermetically seal the cover to the case; and wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, and the electrolyte is disposed inside the case. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer has no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of flat anode layers have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein upper edge of the case is shaped to engage the at least one of the groove or the stepped portion of the lower surface of the cover such that the cover self-registers on the case when the cover is disposed over the open end of the case. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the cathode foil is aluminum foil. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the anode foil is aluminum foil. 7. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the capacitor is an aluminum electrolytic capacitor. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the case is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the cover is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy, and stainless steel. 10. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one of the groove or the stepped portion includes at least one alignment feature for establishing a reference position in the joint. 11. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the implantable medical device is selected from the group consisting of a PCD, an AID, an ICD, a defibrillator, an implantable pulse generator and a pacemaker. 12. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the energy source is selected from the group consisting of a battery, an electrochemical cell, a primary electrochemical cell, a secondary or rechargeable electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell comprising a lithium-containing anode, an electrochemical cell comprising a silver vanadium oxide-containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a (CF.sub.n).sub.x -containing cathode, an electrochemical cell comprising a cathode containing a mixture of silver vanadium oxide and (CF.sub.n).sub.x, a spirally wound electrochemical cell, an electrochemical cell having a plurality of plate-shaped electrodes, and an electrochemical cell having at least one serpentine electrode disposed therewithin. 13. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the at least one cathode layer is electrically connected to the case. 14. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the case is connected electrically to neither the at least one cathode layer nor to the plurality of anode layers. 15. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the electrolyte is selected from the group consisting of a liquid electrolyte, an adhesive electrolyte and a solid electrolyte. 16. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein the upper edge of the case defines a first imaginary axis extending in a first direction and the outer edge of the cover defines a second imaginary axis extending in a second direction, the first and second axes defining an angle between the upper edge of the case and the outer edge of the cover, the outer edge of the cover being crimped over the upper edge of the case to form an angle between them that is less than ninety degrees but greater than or equal to zero degrees. 17. A substantially flat electrolytic capacitor, comprising: (a) at least one flat cathode layer formed of cathode foil; (b) a plurality of flat anode layers formed of anode foil, the plurality of anode layers forming an anode sub-assembly having top and bottom surfaces; (c) at least a first separator layer formed of separator material; (d) an electrolyte; (e) a case having inner and outer sidewalls extending upwardly from a flat planar base to form an open end terminating in an upper edge disposed between the inner and outer sidewalls; (f) a substantially planar cover for sealing the open end of the case, the cover comprising upper and lower surfaces separated by an outer edge, the lower surface of the cover having disposed thereon at least one of a groove and a stepped portion, the at least one of the groove or the stepped portion being disposed radially inward from the outer edge, outer portions of the cover extending between the outer edge and the groove or the stepped portion, the outer portions of the cover being crimped or folded downwardly over at least portions of the outer sidewall of the case to form a joint after the cover is placed on the open end of the can, the joint being laser welded to hermetically seal the cover to the case; and wherein the at least one cathode layer, the plurality of anode layers and the first separator layer are vertically stacked in the case such that the first separator layer is disposed between the at least one cathode layer and the anode sub-assembly, and the electrolyte is disposed inside the case. 18. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the at least one cathode layer has no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 19. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the plurality of flat anode layers have no holes for registration disposed therethrough. 20. The implantable medical device of claim 17, wherein the upper edge of the case is shaped to engage the at least one of the groove or the stepped portion of the lower surface of the cover such that the cover self-registers on the case when the cover is disposed over the open end of the case. 21. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the cathode foil is aluminum foil. 22. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the anode foil is aluminum foil. 23. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the capacitor is an aluminum electrolytic capacitor. 24. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the case is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy and stainless steel. 25. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the cover is formed of a material selected from the group consisting of aluminum, aluminum alloy, titanium, titanium alloy and stainless steel. 26. The implantable medical device of claim 17, wherein the at least one of the groove or the stepped portion includes at least one alignment feature for establishing a reference position in the joint. 27. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the at least one cathode layer is electrically connected to the case. 28. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the case is connected electrically to neither the at least one cathode layer nor to the plurality of anode layers. 29. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the electrolyte is selected from the group consisting of a liquid electrolyte, an adhesive electrolyte and a solid electrolyte. 30. The capacitor of claim 17, wherein the upper edge defines a first imaginary axis extending in a first direction and the outer edge defines a second imaginary axis extending in a second direction, an angle theta defining the angle between the first and second directions after at least outer portions of the cover are crimped or folded downwardly over at least portions of the outer sidewall of the case, the angle theta being less than ninety degrees but greater than or equal to zero degrees. 