A data storage library efficiently utilizes I/O slots while maintaining software compatibility by using functional addresses to conduct virtual cartridge moves from storage slots to I/O slots. More particularly, a location-centric library host manages cartridge movement according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses. In reality, the library has multiple cartridge receiving slots, which include physical I/O slots and physical storage slots. In contrast with the physical I/O slots and physical storage slots, functional I/O addresses and functional storage addresses are virtual locations used by the host in managing cartridge locations. Thus, host knowledge of cartridge locations is limited to their functional addresses. The library includes a library map that correlates functional addresses with physical addresses. Initially, an eject command is received from the host. The eject command requests transfer of a cartridge from a source functional storage address to a target functional I/O address. In response to the eject command, irrespective of any physical movement of the cartridge, the library reports successful completion of the requested eject command to the host. The library promptly gives a functional I/O address to the physical storage slot containing the cartridge. When a physical I/O slot becomes available, the library physically moves the cartridge there and either correlates the cartridge's functional I/O address with this physical I/O slot, or registers the cartridge's functional I/O address as empty.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing eject operations in a data storage library having multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots having physical addresses and including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, where the library includes a controller coupled to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses, and the library includes a library database associating functional addresses with physical addresses, the method comprising the operations of: the controller receiving an eject command from the host, the eject command requesting ejection of a cartridge from a source functional storage address exclusively associated with the cartridge to a target functional I/O address, the cartridge residing in a source physical storage slot associated with the source functional storage address by the library database; in response to the eject command, the controller performing operations comprising: irrespective of any physical movement of the cartridge, reporting successful completion of the requested eject command to the host; updating the library database to associate the source physical storage slot with the target functional I/O address and disassociate the source physical storage slot from the source functional storage address; and when a physical I/O slot becomes available, physically moving the cartridge into the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot. 2. The method of claim 1, the operations further comprising, responsive to a physical I/O slot becoming available: updating the library data to associate the target functional I/O address with the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot; responsive to removal of the cartridge from the available physical I/O slot, disassociating the target functional I/O address from the available physical I/O slot. 3. The method of claim 1, the operations further comprising: maintaining a host-accessible catalog showing the associations between functional addresses and cartridges. 4. The method of claim 1, the library data including: a library status map showing the associations between functional addresses and physical addresses; a library status table listing each physical address and identifying any cartridge contained therein. 5. The method of claim 1, the cartridges comprising magnetic tape cartridges. 6. A signal-bearing medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform a method for managing eject operations in a data storage library having multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots having physical addresses and including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, where the library includes a controller coupled to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses, and the library includes a library database associating functional addresses with physical addresses, the method comprising the operations of: the controller receiving an eject command from the host, the eject command requesting ejection of a cartridge from a source functional storage address exclusively associated with the cartridge to a target functional I/O address, the cartridge residing in a source physical storage slot associated with the source functional storage address by the library database; in response to the eject command, the controller performing operations comprising: irrespective of any physical movement of the cartridge, reporting successful completion of the requested eject command to the host; updating the library database to associate the source physical storage slot with the target functional I/O address and disassociate the source physical storage slot from the source functional storage address; and when a physical I/O slot becomes available, physically moving the cartridge into the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot. 7. The medium of claim 6, the operations further comprising, responsive to a physical I/O slot becoming available: updating the library data to associate the target functional I/O address with the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot; responsive to removal of the cartridge from the available physical I/O slot, disassociating the target functional I/O address from the available physical I/O slot. 8. The medium of claim 6, the operations further comprising: maintaining a host-accessible catalog showing the associations between functional addresses and cartridges. 9. The medium of claim 6, the library data including: a library status map showing the associations between functional addresses and physical addresses; a library status table listing each physical address and identifying any cartridge contained therein. 10. The medium of claim 6, the cartridges comprising magnetic tape cartridges. 11. A logic circuit of multiple interconnected electrically conductive elements configured to perform operations to signal-bearing medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform a method to manage eject operations in a data storage library having multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots having physical addresses and including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, where the library includes a controller coupled to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses, and the library includes a library database associating functional addresses with physical addresses, the method comprising the operations of: the controller receiving an eject command from the host, the eject command requesting ejection of a cartridge from a source functional storage address exclusively associated with the cartridge to a target functional I/O address, the cartridge residing in a source physical storage slot associated with the source functional storage address by the library database; in response to the eject command, the controller performing operations comprising: irrespective of any physical movement of the cartridge, reporting successful completion of the requested eject command to the host; updating the library database to associate the source physical storage slot with the target functional I/O address and disassociate the source physical storage slot from the source functional storage address; and when a physical I/O slot becomes available, physically moving the cartridge into the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot. 12. A data storage library, comprising: multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, each slot having a physical address; robotics to move cartridges among various locations including the slots; a controller coupled to the robotics and to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses; a library database, accessible by the controller, correlating functional addresses with physical addresses; where the controller is configured to perform operations to carry out eject requests from the host, each eject command requesting ejection of a cartridge from a source functional storage address exclusively associated with the cartridge to a target functional I/O address, the cartridge residing in a source physical storage slot associated with the source functional address by the library database, the operations comprising the following, performed in response to an eject request from the host: irrespective of any physical movement of the cartridge, reporting successful completion of the requested eject command to the host; updating the library database to associate the source physical storage slot with the target functional I/O address and disassociate the source physical storage slot from the source functional storage address; and when a physical I/O slot becomes available, physically moving the cartridge into the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot. 13. The library of claim 12, the operations further comprising, responsive to a physical I/O slot becoming available: updating the library data to associate the target functional I/O address with the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot; responsive to removal of the cartridge from the available physical I/O slot, disassociating the target functional I/O address from the available physical I/O slot. 14. The library of claim 12, the operations further comprising: maintaining a host-accessible catalog showing the associations between functional addresses and cartridges. 15. The library of claim 12, the library data including: a library status map showing the associations between functional addresses and physical addresses; a library status table listing each physical address and identifying any cartridge contained therein. 16. The library of claim 12, further including the cartridges. 17. A data storage library, comprising: multiple slots to receive data storage cartridges, the slots including one or more physical I/O slots and multiple physical storage slots, each slot having a physical address; robotic means for moving cartridges among various locations including the slots; controller means coupled to the robotic means and to a location-centric host that manages cartridge location according to functional storage addresses and functional I/O addresses; a library database, accessible by the controller means, correlating functional addresses with physical addresses; where the controller means is configured for carrying out eject requests from the host, each eject command requesting ejection of a cartridge from a source functional storage address exclusively associated with the cartridge to a target functional I/O address, the cartridge residing in a source physical storage slot associated with the source functional storage address by the library database, the carrying out of eject requests from the host comprising: irrespective of any physical movement of the cartridge, reporting successful completion of the requested eject command to the host; updating the library database to associate the source physical storage slot with the target functional I/O address and disassociate the source physical storage slot from the source functional storage address; and when a physical I/O slot becomes available, physically moving the cartridge into the available physical I/O slot and disassociating the target functional I/O address from the source physical storage slot. 