The invention is an apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in an environment local to the user. A connection element connects to a user's body member and a linkage between the connection element and ground. The linkage includes means for powering at least three independent freedoms of the connection element relative to ground and means for maintaining at least one independent freedom of the connection element relative to ground free of power. Up to three independent freedoms of the connection element may be maintained free of power, and up to five independent freedoms may be powered. Other aspects of the invention include a two actuator counter-balance for controlling a point on a link. The invention also includes apparatus for establishing a virtual, switch, which presents to the user the force and displacement relationship of a spring switch. Another embodiment is a virtual bristled brush, again which presents to the user the force and displacement relationship of such a brush, while also changing the virtual environment to reflect the user's changes in location.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for generating a signal representative of force comprising: a. a receiver for receiving a signal representative of the location of a user reference point relative to a user reference frame; b. a geometry model residence for storing a representation of: i. a non-local reference frame; ii. the user reference frame, relative to said non-local reference frame; and iii. the conformation of a non-local environment comprising a substrate-type element, relative to said non-local reference frame; c. a comparator for comparing the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment; d. a force generator for generating a signal representative of a force, based on the location of the user reference point relative to the non-local environment and a set of force rules, including substrate-force rules which specify a substrate output force signal in response to a location signal of said user reference point indicative of a deflected conformation of said substrate-type element; and e. a non-local environment reaction calculator that makes changes to the representation of the conformation of the non-local environment based on the signal representative of force and the set of force rules, said substrate type-element rule specifying a change in the representation of a surface shape of a selected region of said substrate-type element. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, said representation of said conformation of said substrate-type element including a representation of a surface texture. 3. An apparatus for generating a force at a specified point, said apparatus comprising: a first actuator connected through a cable to a ground; a second actuator connected to the ground through said cable; a first connector kinematically connecting said first actuator to a specified point; and a second connector kinematically connecting said second actuator to the specified point. 4. An apparatus for sensing a position at a specified point, said apparatus comprising: a. a first rotary position transducer connected through a cable to a ground; b. a second rotary position transducer connected to the ground through said cable; c. a first connector kinematically connecting said first rotary position transducer to a specified point; and d. a second connector kinematically connecting said second rotary position transducer to the specified point. 5. An apparatus for positioning a user at a specified point, said apparatus comprising: a. a first actuator connected through a cable to a ground; b. a second actuator connected to the ground through said cable; c. a first connector kinematically connecting said first actuator to a specified point; and d. a second connector kinematically connecting said second actuator to the specified point. 6. An apparatus for sensing a force at a specified point, said apparatus comprising: a. a first actuator connected through a cable to a ground; b. a second actuator connected to the ground through said cable; c. a first connector kinematically connecting said first actuator to a specified point; and d. a second connector kinematically connecting said second actuator to the specified point. 7. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a first, user-local environment, the apparatus comprising: a computer mouse for physically connecting to a body member of the user; and means for physically linking the mouse to a ground, the linking means comprising: means for powering at least two independent freedoms of the mouse relative to the ground; and means for maintaining at least one independent freedom of the mouse relative to the ground free of power. 8. An apparatus for physically exchanging a force with a user in a first, user-local environment, the apparatus comprising: a computer mouse for physically connecting to a body member of the user; and means for physically linking the mouse to a ground, the linking means comprising: means for powering three independent freedoms of the mouse relative to the ground; and means for maintaining three independent freedoms of the connection element relative to the ground free of power. 9. An apparatus for generating a force to a computer mouse, the apparatus comprising: a first actuator connected to a ground; a second actuator connected to the ground; means for kinematically connecting the first actuator to the mouse; and means for kinematically connecting the second actuator to the mouse. 