A parallel kinematics mechanism is provided for uses such as robotics or machining. The mechanism has various limbs, at least some of which are actuatable, for moving an end component with multiple degrees of freedom. The mechanism advantageously facilitates a closed-form solution for the forward kinematics. A joint assembly is provided for use in the parallel kinematics mechanism, the joint assembly having a plurality of revolute joints for connecting to at least three limbs, the joints having non-parallel axes, which intersect at a common point. In various embodiments of the invention, the end component has three, four, five and six degrees of freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanism for positioning and orienting an end component in space with at least five degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; at least first, second, third, fourth, and fifth actuator limbs, each of the actuator limbs including at least a first limb member pivotably mounted to said base, a second limb member movably connected to the first limb member, and an elbow movably connected to the second limb member, wherein the elbow has at least four degrees of freedom relative to said base, at least one of said degrees of freedom of the elbow being actuatable relative to the base, and wherein at least three of the degrees of freedom of the elbow are free, including one free rotational degree of freedom about a respective limb axis; a first joint body, the elbows of said first, second, and third actuator limbs each being mounted to said first joint body such that the first, second, and third actuator limbs are each movable relative to said first joint body about a respective joint axis which is non-parallel to the limb axis of the respective actuator limb, wherein the joint axes of said first joint body and the limb axes of the first, second, and third actuator limbs intersect at a first common point; a second joint body, the elbows of said fourth and fifth actuator limbs each being mounted to said second joint body such that the fourth and fifth actuator limbs are each movable relative to the second joint body about a respective joint axis which is non-parallel to said limb axis of the respective actuator limb, wherein the joint axes of said second joint body and the limb axes of the fourth and fifth actuator limbs intersect at a second common point; and an end component movably mounted to said second joint body, the end component being movably connected to said first joint body such that said end component is movable with three degrees of freedom relative to the first joint body and five degrees of freedom relative to said base. 2. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said end component rotates relative to said second joint body about an axis which intersects said second common point. 3. The mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising an intermediate limb having opposite first and second ends and an intermediate axis extending between the first and second ends, the first end being movably mounted to said first joint body and the second end being movably mounted to said end component by a revolute joint to allow rotation of said intermediate limb relative to said end component about said intermediate axis. 4. A mechanism according to claim 3, wherein said intermediate axis intersects said first common point. 5. A mechanism according to claim 3, wherein said intermediate axis intersects said second common point. 6. A mechanism according to claim 3, further comprising a universal joint connecting said first joint body to said intermediate limb, wherein the universal joint includes two revolute joints with non-parallel axes intersecting at a center point. 7. A mechanism according to claim 6, where said center point is coincident with said first common point. 8. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the end component is connected to said first joint body with a ball-and-socket joint having a center point. 9. A mechanism according to claim 8, where said center point is coincident with said first common point. 10. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a revolute joint connecting the elbow of one of said actuator s to the respective joint body for relative rotation about a joint axis. 11. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of universal joints, each of said universal joints pivotably connecting the first limb member of a respective one of said first, second, third, fourth and fifth actuator limbs to said base, each of said universal joints including two revolute joints with non-parallel axes intersecting at a base point, a plurality of actuated prismatic joints connecting the first limb member to the second limb member, and a plurality of revolute joints rotatably connecting the second limb member to the elbow of each respective actuator limb allowing rotation of the elbow about said limb axis. 12. A mechanism according to claim 11, wherein said limb axis intersects a base point axis. 13. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of universal joints, each of said universal joints pivotably connecting the first limb member of a respective one of said first, second, third, fourth and fifth actuator limbs to said base, each of said universal joints including two revolute joints with non-parallel axes intersecting at a base point, a plurality of revolute joints rotatably connecting the first limb member to the second limb member allowing rotation of the second limb member about said limb axis, and a plurality of actuated prismatic joints connecting the second limb member to the elbow of each respective actuator limb. 14. A mechanism according to claim 13, wherein said limb axis intersects a base point axis. 15. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising at least one ball-and-socket joint pivotably connecting the first member of at least one of said actuator limbs to the base. 16. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said actuator limbs is an elbow linkage device comprising said first limb member rotatably connected to the base by an actuated revolute joint, the first limb member pivotably connected to a second limb member by a universal joint and the second limb member rotatably connected to the elbow by a revolute joint allowing rotation about said limb axis. 17. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a work tool rotatably mounted to said end component for actuatable movement relative thereto. 18. A mechanism according to claim 17, further comprising a motor mounted to said base and a shaft assembly operably linking said motor to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 19. A mechanism according to claim 17, further comprising a motor mounted to said end component and operably linked to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 20. A mechanism according to claim 3, wherein said intermediate limb is a prismatic actuator for moving first and second joint body relatively to each other. 21. A mechanism according to claim 3, wherein said intermediate limb is a revolute actuator with an actuatable shaft. 22. A mechanism according to claim 21, further comprising a work tool rigidly mounted to said shaft of the revolute actuator. 23. A mechanism according to claim 3, further comprising a motor mounted to said base and a shaft assembly operably linking said motor to said intermediate limb, the motor driving said intermediate limb to rotate about said intermediate axis. 24. A mechanism according to claim 23, wherein the intermediate limb is mounted to a universal joint which includes two revolute joints whose axes are non-parallel to said intermediate axis, with the universal joint being connected to the first joint body by a revolute joint allowing rotation about a central axis. 25. A mechanism according to claim 23, further comprising a work tool rigidly mounted to said intermediate limb. 26. A mechanism for positioning and orienting a joint body in space with at least three degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; at least first, second, and third actuator limbs, each of the actuator limbs including a first limb member pivotably mounted to said base, a second limb member movably connected to the first limb member, and an elbow movably connected to the second limb member, wherein the elbow has at least four degrees of freedom relative to said base, at least one of said degrees of freedom of the elbow being actuatable relative to the base, and wherein at least three of the degrees of freedom of the elbow are free, including one free rotational degree of freedom about a respective limb axis; and a joint body, the elbows of said first, second, and third actuator limbs each being mounted to said joint body such that the first, second, and third actuator limbs are each movable relative to said joint body about a respective joint axis which is non-parallel to the limb axis of the respective actuator limb, wherein the joint axes of said first joint body and the limb axes of the first, second, and third actuator limbs intersect at a common point; and a plurality of universal joints, each of said universal joints pivotably connecting the first limb member of a respective one of said actuator limbs to said base, each of said universal joints including two revolute joints with non-parallel axes intersecting at a base point, a plurality of actuated prismatic joints connecting the first limb member to the second limb member, and a plurality of revolute joints rotatably connecting the second limb member to the elbow of each respective actuator limb allowing rotation of the elbow about said limb axis. 27. A mechanism according to claim 26, wherein said limb axis intersects a base point axis. 28. A mechanism according to claim 26, further comprising a work tool rotatably mounted to said joint body for actuatable movement relative thereto. 29. A mechanism according to claim 20, further comprising a motor mounted to said base and a shaft assembly operably linking said motor to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 30. A mechanism according to claim 20, further comprising a motor mounted to said joint body and operably linked to said work tool, the motor driving said work tool to rotate. 