A positional control system, comprising a robotically controlled arm, for varying the position of a robotic surgical tool, is provided. The robotic surgical tool can be in the form of an image capture device, such as an endoscope, for example. The positional control system comprises a base and a mounting formation arranged to support the robotic surgical tool. The positional control system further comprises an articulated arm extending between the base and the mounting formation. The articulated arm has an upper arm portion, a forearm portion, a forearm link member and an upper arm link member. The portions and the link members are pivotally secured relative to one another to effect displacement of the mounting formation relative to the base. The forearm link member is positioned at least partially within the forearm portion and the upper arm link member is positioned at least partially within the upper arm portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A positional control system for varying the position of at least one robotic surgical tool, the positional control system including: a base, a first articulated arm having a first end mounted on the base and an opposed second end arranged to be positionally adjustable relative to the base, the first articulated arm having an upper arm portion, a forearm portion, a forearm link member and an upper arm link member; a first mounting formation on the second end of the first articulated arm and arranged to support a first robotic surgical tool, wherein the upper arm portion, the forearm link portion, the forearm link member, and the upper arm link members of the first articulated arm are pivotally secured to each other to effect displacement of the first mounting formation relative to the base; the forearm link member is positioned at least partially within the forearm portion and the upper arm link member is positioned at least partially within the upper arm portion; at least one actuator for driving the first articulated arm to cause positional adjustment of the second end relative to the base; a drive system comprising at least one harmonic drive operatively positioned between the actuator and the first articulated arm so as to articulate the first articulated arm, the drive system being backdrivable so that movement of the first robotic surgical tool effects movement of the actuator. 2. The positional control system of claim 1, further comprising the first robotic surgical tool, wherein the first robotic surgical tool comprises an image capture device. 3. The positional control system of claim 2, further comprising a second robotic surgical tool and a second articulated arm having a first end mounted on the base and a second mounting formation on an opposed second end arranged to support a second robotic surgical tool, wherein the second robotic surgical tool comprises a tissue manipulating surgical end effector. 4. The positional control system of claim 3, further comprising a third robotic surgical tool and a third articulated arm having a first end mounted on the base and a third mounting formation on an opposed second end arranged to support a third robotic surgical tool, wherein the third robotic surgical tool comprises a second tissue manipulating surgical end effector. 5. The positional control system of claim 1, wherein the first articulated arm is supported entirely by an single cantilevered, pivotal connection between said upper arm portion and said base. 6. The positional control system of claim 1, wherein the harmonic drive has a drive gear ratio, and wherein the drive system further comprises a gear train coupled to the harmonic drive so as to generate a drive system gear ratio, the drive system gear ratio being a larger multiple of the harmonic drive gear ratio. 7. The positional control system of claim 1, wherein the first articulated arm further comprises a brake. 8. The positional control system of claim 7, wherein the brake auto locks at least one joint of the first articulated arm. 