A weather resistant modular sensor and computing platform reduces costs and enhances versatility of sensor systems. Rapidly evolving electronic technology results in hyper-obsolescence wherein sensor systems that are state of the art technology when designed, fall behind the art quickly as new transducers, batteries and components are developed. A cylindrical shaped modular system provides an architecture for up-grading sensors, batteries, special modules, communications, and control. A modular architecture extends the life cycle of a system and avoids hyper-obsolescence and the requirement to design a complete new system to incorporate new technology. Modularity and low cost manufacturing methods enable the practical definition of a cylindrical computer. The cylinder shaped enclosures have on their ends a common connection interface to which modules may be added. This provides a long system life cycle and wide ranging versatility. The size of the platform is not restricted. Larger systems are capable of supporting more sophisticated processing. A scaled up version of the modular platform provides an outdoor weather resistant community computing server.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An environmentally sealed modular computing platform comprising (a) a control means for executing instructions wherein said instructions direct the operation of said computing platform, (b) an end-fitting means for joining modules mechanically and electrically with said control means, (c) a power supply means, said power supply means comprising a source of electrical energy for use by said platform electronics, (d) a bus, and (e) at least one electronics enclosure module enclosing said bus. 2. The computing platform of claim one wherein said computing platform further comprises said at least one electronics enclosure module further comprising connection means for connecting said at least one electronics enclosure module electrically. 3. The computing platform of claim one wherein said computing platform further comprises said at least one electronics enclosure module further comprising connection means for connecting said at least one electronics enclosure module mechanically. 4. The computing platform of claim one wherein said computing platform comprises integral end fittings in said at least one electronics enclosure module for connecting said modules together electrically and mechanically. 5. The computing platform of claim one wherein said at least one electronics enclosure module is of a cylindrical shape. 6. The computing platform of claim 1 where said end fitting means further comprises an O ring. 7. The computing platform of claim 1 wherein said computing platform further comprises a mass storage disk drive module. 8. A modular weather resistant computer platform comprising (a) a data processing means wherein computer instructions are executed, (b) a data storage means for storage of a control program and data, and (c) a digital communication circuit passing from said computing platform to at least one residence of a person, wherein said communication circuit carries digital information to said at least one residence and from said at least one residence, and wherein said person may pass communications signals by passing said communications signals through said communications circuit to communicate with said computing platform. 9. The modular weather resistant computer of claim 8 wherein said communications circuit to at least one residence is a coaxial cable. 10. The modular weather resistant computer of claim 8 wherein said communications circuit is communicating to at least one residence is at least two twisted wires. 11. The modular weather resistant computer of claim 8 wherein said communications circuit is communicating to at least one residence is a fiber optic communications means. 12. A modular sensor computing platform comprising (a) a cylindrical electronic enclosure module comprising an end fitting for mechanically and electrically connecting said enclosure module with another enclosure module comprising at least one end fitting, each end fitting of each module comprising electrical contacts for electrically connecting the modules, (b) thereby comprising a configuration means for selectively assembling said modular sensor computing platform wherein operation of said modules fitted together comprise a modular sensor computing platform. 13. A circular circuit board comprising at least one communication signal connection means on the perimeter of said circular circuit board, said signal connection means extending circumferentially beyond the outer edge of said circular circuit board. 14. The circuit board of claim 13 wherein said circuit board comprises a circular voided opening at the center of said circuit board for receiving a support post. 15. The circuit board of claim 14 wherein said circular voided opening further comprises signal connection means on the circumference of said circular voided opening at said center of said circular circuit board. 16. A vertically mounted mother board comprising connection means on a front surface and connection means on a rear surface wherein ancillary circuit boards may be connected at said connection means on said front surface and said rear surface. 17. An enclosure means comprising support means for maintaining the vertically mounted mother board of claim 16 in a vertical position when installed in said enclosure means. 18. The vertical mounted mother board of claim 16 further comprising a connection means at the bottom of said vertical mounted mother board. 19. The vertical mounted circuit board of claim 16 further comprising a connection means at the top of said vertical mounted mother board. 20. A cylindrical circuit board enclosure comprising bus traces along a length of interior wall of said enclosure to carry communications signals between circular circuit boards mounted within said cylindrical circuit board enclosure wherein said circuit boards comprise signal communications contact points that are in communication with said bus traces. 21. The cylindrical circuit board enclosure of claim 20 wherein said bus traces are metallic electrical transmission means. 22. The cylindrical circuit board enclosure of claim 20 wherein said bus traces are a light carrying transmission means. 23. A modular sensor platform terminating module comprising an optical sensor wherein data from said optical sensor is delivered to a guidance module computer means after said platform is released from an airship and during descent of said modular sensor platform said guidance module computer means communicates to a guidance means module, said guidance means module comprising an actuator means wherein said actuator means actuates an airfoil means to modify and correct a flight path of said modular sensor platform. 24. A computing platform comprising a parabolic air brake means for reducing speed of descent when falling through the atmosphere from an altitude, a controller means, and an actuator means wherein said actuator means is actuated by said controller means to modify positions of said parabolic air brake means, and when said computing platform has landed on earth said controller means actuates said actuator means to position said parabolic air brake means to an operating position appropriate for use as an antenna. 25. In combination (a) a utility pole providing support for utility lines and services, (b) a computer supported on said utility pole wherein said computer provides utility computer services to a plurality of users. 26. A method of manufacturing circuit assemblies comprising flexible circuitry wrapped around circular circuit boards wherein (a) said flexible circuitry wraps onto said circular circuit boards wherein said circular circuit boards are rotated to heated rollers (b) and said heated rollers heat solder joints between said flexible circuitry and said circular circuit boards whereby (c) said flexible circuitry is joined to circuits on said circular circuit boards. 27. The method of claim 26 where said circular circuit boards further comprise at least one tooth on perimeter of said circular circuit boards and said one tooth penetrates into a void within said flexible circuitry and rotational energy of said circular circuit board is transferred to said flexible circuitry to pull said flexible circuitry onto circular circuit boards rotating within said heated rollers. 28. The method of manufacturing of claim 26 wherein said circular boards comprise a hole at the center of said circuit boards said hole further comprising a key opening to align circular circuit boards with a keyed shaft which passes through said circular circuit boards wherein said keyed shaft imparts rotational energy to circular circuit boards fitted onto said keyed shaft as said keyed shaft is turned. 29. The modular weather resistant computer of claim 8 wherein the enclosure for said computer is cylindrical. 30. The modular weather resistant computer of claim 8 further comprising an end-fitting. 31. A modular sensor computing platform comprising a cylindrical electronic enclosure module comprising raised threads on the enclosure exterior for mounting, and an end fitting for connecting said enclosure module with another enclosure module comprising at least one end fitting, wherein operation of said modules fitted together comprises a modular sensor computing platform. 