A high throughput electrochemical test method for determining the resistance to corrosion of a metal article coated with a resinous coating which comprises: (a) making, as the working electrode in an electrochemical cell which also comprises a reference electrode, a counter-electrode and an electrolytic solution, one or more metal articles comprising a plurality of coated areas thereon, with the proviso that a portion of the coating does not exist on the metal thereby allowing for the ultimate passage of electrical current to the metal without the coating being a barrier to such passage; (b) impressing a series of direct current electrical potentials upon each of the respective coated areas in sequence and upon the respective associated working electrode to enable current to flow between the metal article in the electrochemical cell and the counter-electrode; and (c) measuring the current flow as the direct current potential is varied relative to the reference electrode to generate a potentiodynamic scan of the active and passive regions of the metal.
Claims I claim: 1. A high throughput electrochemical test method for determining the resistance to corrosion of a metal article coated with a plurality of corrosion preventing coated areas which comprises: (a) making, as the working electrode in an electrochemical cell, which also comprises a reference electrode, a counter-electrode and an electrolytic solution, one or more metal articles each comprising the plurality of coated areas thereon, with the proviso that there is an uncoated area of metal adjacent a coated area thereby allowing for the ultimate passage of electrical current to the metal without the coated area being a barrier to such passage; (b) impressing a series of direct current electrical potentials or a series of direct current flows, respectively, upon each of the respective coated areas in sequence and upon the respective associated working electrode to enable current to flow between the metal article in the electrochemical cell and the counter-electrode; and (c) measuring the current flow as the direct current potential is varied relative to the reference electrode or measuring the voltage as the direct current flow is varied relative to the reference electrode, respectively, to generate a potentiodynamic scan or potentiostatic scan, respectively, of the active and passive regions of the metal. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coated area comprises at least one corrosion inhibiting additive. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the metal is steel. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coated area comprises at least one corrosion inhibiting additive and the metal is steel. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reference electrode is a saturated calomel electrode. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the counter-electrode comprises graphite and the reference electrode is a saturated calomel electrode. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reference electrode is a saturated calomel electrode, the working electrode comprises coated steel, and the counter-electrode comprises graphite. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coated area comprises at least one corrosion inhibiting additive, the reference electrode is a saturated calomel electrode, the working electrode comprises coated steel, and the counter-electrode comprises graphite. 9. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the metal is steel, the reference electrode is a saturated calomel electrode, the working electrode comprises coated steel, and the counter-electrode comprises graphite. 10. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coated area comprises at least one corrosion inhibiting additive, the metal is steel, the reference electrode is a saturated calomel electrode, the working electrode comprises coated steel, and the counter-electrode comprises graphite. 11. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the metal is aluminum. 12. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the metal is aluminum, the working electrode comprises coated aluminum and the counter-electrode is selected from the group consisting of graphite and platinum. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coated area comprises at least one corrosion inhibiting additive, the metal is aluminum, the working electrode comprises coated aluminum and the counter-electrode is selected from the group consisting of graphite and platinum. 14. A high throughput electrochemical test method for determining the resistance to corrosion of a metal article coated with a plurality of corrosion preventing coated areas which comprises: (a) making, as the working electrode in an electrochemical cell, which also comprises a reference electrode, a counter-electrode and an electrolytic solution, a single metal article that contains a plurality of coated areas thereon, with the proviso that there is an uncoated area of metal adjacent a coated area thereby allowing for the ultimate passage of electrical current to the metal without the coated area being a barrier to such passage; (b) impressing a series of direct current electrical potentials or a series of direct current flows, respectively, upon each of the respective coated areas in sequence and upon the working electrode to enable current to flow between the metal article in the electrochemical cell and the counter-electrode; and (c) measuring the current flow as the direct current potential is varied relative to the reference electrode or measuring the voltage as the direct current flow is varied relative to the reference electrode, respectively, to generate a potentiodynamic scan or potentiostatic scan, respectively, of the active and passive regions of the metal. 