Devices for automatically feeding sample containers into and out of an analyzer. The device may include (1) a first station that receives and initiates transport of a sample container into an analyzer for analysis, (2) a second station where the sample container is handed off to a transporter that carries the sample container to and from an examination site inside the analyzer, and (3) a third station that collects the sample container after examination. The device also may include a singulation mechanism configured to separate a sample container from a stack of sample containers, and/or a stacking mechanism configured to add a sample container to a stack of sample containers. The singulation and stacking mechanisms may include lifter and latch components.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for feeding sample containers in and out of an analyzer, the apparatus comprising: a first station that receives and initiates transport of a sample container into the analyzer for analysis; a second station where the sample container is handed off to a transporter that carries the sample container to an examination site inside the analyzer and that returns the sample container from the examination site to the second station; and a third station that collects the sample container after examination. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample container is a microplate. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the microplate includes a plurality of open sample wells. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first station includes a singulation mechanism configured to separate the sample container from a stack of sample containers for transport to the analyzer. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the stack has a top and bottom, the singulation mechanism taking one sample container at a time from the bottom of the stack. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the stack has a top and a bottom, the singulation mechanism taking one sample container at a time from the top of the stack. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a preprocessing bin positioned at the first station for holding the stack, wherein the preprocessing bin can be removed from the first station and replaced with another preprocessing bin containing a new stack of sample containers with samples to be analyzed. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the third station includes a stacking mechanism configured to add the sample container to a stack of microplates. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the stack has a top and bottom, the stacking mechanism adding one sample container at a time to the bottom of the stack. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the stack has a top and a bottom, the stacking mechanism adding one sample container at a time to the top of the stack. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a postprocessing bin positioned at the third station for holding the stack, wherein the postprocessing bin can be removed from the third station and replaced with another postprocessing bin to collect a new stack of sample containers with analyzed samples. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a tray that carries the sample container between stations. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a sample container stacking and destacking device operatively associated with the tray, the stacking and destacking device moving with the tray and being capable of taking a sample container one at a time from a first stack of sample containers at the first station, handing off the sample container to the transporter, which carries the sample container to and from an examination site inside the analyzer, and adding the sample container to a second stack of sample containers at the third station after analysis. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the stacking and destacking device includes a lifter and a latch that cooperate to remove a sample container from the first stack, and to add a sample container to the second stack. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the lifter is configured to raise or lower the sample container relative to the bottom of a stack of sample containers, and wherein the latch has a pick portion, the latch being mounted so that the pick portion moves in and out of gaps between adjacently stacked sample containers in response to up and down movement of the lifter. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the lifter includes a cam configured to vary the rate at which the sample container is raised and lowered. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the first station has a dedicated first handler that takes a sample container from a first stack of sample containers and deposits the sample container on the tray, the second station has a second handler that hands-off the sample container from the tray to the transporter, which carries the sample container to and from an examination site inside the analyzer, and the third station has a third handler that transfers the sample container from the tray to a second stack of sample containers after analysis. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein each handler at the first and third stations includes a lifter and a latch that cooperate to transfer a sample container to or from a stack. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the lifter is configured to raise or lower the sample container relative to the bottom of a stack of sample containers, and wherein the latch has a pick portion, the latch being mounted so that the pick portion moves in and out of gaps between adjacently stacked sample containers in response to up and down movement of the lifter. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the lifter includes a cam configured to vary the rate at which the sample container is raised and lowered. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a first linear path connects the examination site to the second station, and a second linear path connects the first, second and third stations, the first linear path being substantially perpendicular to the second linear path. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the transporter carries the sample container from the second station to and from the examination site generally along the first linear path, and further comprising a tray that carries the sample container between the first, second and third stations on the second linear path. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the examination site and the first, second, and third stations all are positioned along a single substantially linear path. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a robot programmed to deliver a sample container to the first station and to retrieve a different sample container from the third station in the same trip. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transporter carries the sample container to and from the examination site along a single path. 26. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample container includes a fluid sample. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sample container maintains a horizontal orientation during transport to and from the examination site. 