An input control device with force sensors is configured to sense hand movements of a surgeon performing a robot-assisted microsurgery. The sensed hand movements actuate a mechanically decoupled robot manipulator. A microsurgical manipulator, attached to the robot manipulator, is activated to move small objects and perform microsurgical tasks. A force-feedback element coupled to the robot manipulator and the input control device provides the input control device with an amplified sense of touch in the microsurgical manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microsurgery system, comprising: a robot manipulator having a plurality of mechanically decoupled joints, said plurality of mechanically decoupled joints allowing actuation of a joint without affecting motion of any other joints; an effector coupled to said robot manipulator to apply a force to an object; and a force feedback element adapted to amplify a return force from said effector. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: master control system coupled to said robot manipulator, said master control system allowing an operator to input hand movement, where said hand movement is converted into amount of force applied at the effector. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the return force of said force feedback element provides an exaggerated sense of feel, such that said sense of feel allows an operator to feel smaller force feedback than that without said force feedback element. 4. A method of performing a microsurgery, comprising: converting operator hand movements into a series of forces to be applied by a manipulator; determining a series of manipulator movements, said movements performed by a combination of manipulator joint movements; actuating the manipulator joint movements; providing an amplified feedback of a return force felt by said manipulator. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said actuating includes providing movement of each joints in a mechanically decoupled orientation such that a joint movement is made without affecting movement of any other joints. 