A hold-and-release singulator includes a conveyor having a transport mechanism for carrying a group of items such as parcels, packages, containers or the like from an entry end towards an exit end of the singulator, a hold and release system that can hold items that have entered the singulator on the conveyor so that such items are not transported by the conveyor while causing one item to be transported by the conveyor, and a control system that controls operation of the conveyor and the hold-and-release system in a manner effective to remove the group of items from the exit end of the conveyor one at a time according to a removal scheme, preferably with a predetermined minimum spacing. The hold and release system can take several forms, such as a mechanism for selectively actuating a portion of the conveyor at a time to remove an item from the exit end of the conveyor, or a mechanism that can hold items off of the conveyor surface so that such items are not transported when the conveyor is running, and selectively set items onto the conveyor surface so that such items are transported when the conveyor is running. In the latter case, the control system controls operation of the conveyor and the hold-and-release system in a manner effective to hold a group of items off of the conveyor surface and then lower the items according to the removal scheme so that the items leave the exit end of the conveyor one at a time with a predetermined minimum spacing. The items may be supported from beneath by a series or array of supports which lift the items, or an arm may suspend the items from above to hold the items off of the conveyor surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hold and release singulator, comprising: a conveyor including a transport mechanism for carrying a group of items from an entry end towards an exit end of the singulator; a hold and release system that can hold items that have entered the singulator on the transport mechanism so that such items are not transported by the conveyor, while causing one item to be transported by the conveyor; control system that controls operation of the conveyor and the hold-and-release system in a manner effective to remove the group of items from the exit end of the conveyor one at a time according to a removal scheme and a vision system including a camera that records an image of the items to be singulated by the hold-and-release system, and the control system includes logic for operating the hold-and-release system based on item positions determined from the image. 2. The singulator of claim 1, wherein the hold and release system includes a mechanism for selectively actuating a portion of the conveyor at a time to remove an item from the exit end of the conveyor. 3. The singulator of claim 1, wherein the hold and release system includes a mechanism that can hold items off of the conveyor surface so that such items are not transported when the conveyor is running, and selectively set items onto the conveyor surface so that such items are transported when the conveyor is running, and the control system controls operation of the conveyor and the hold-and-release system in a manner effective to hold a group of items off of the conveyor surface and then lower the items according to the removal scheme so that the items leave the exit end of the conveyor one at a time with a predetermined minimum spacing. 4. The hold-and-release singulator of claim 3, wherein the hold-and-release system includes a series of supports which lift items from below to hold the items off of the conveyor surface. 5. The hold-and-release singulator of claim 3, wherein the hold-and-release system includes a mechanism for suspending items from above to hold the items off of the conveyor surface. 6. The singulator of claim 1, wherein the vision system is positioned upstream from the entry end of the singulator conveyor at a gap spanning the width of the entry end of the conveyor singulator and further comprises a light source for illuminating the gap as items pass over the gap, the camera being positioned to receive light from the light source passing through the gap, and a device for reducing parallax errors in the image. 7. The singulator of claim 1, wherein the conveyor includes a series of parallel belts positioned to carrying items from the entry end of the singulator towards the exit end of the singulator. 8. A hold and release singulator, comprising: a conveyor including a transport mechanism for carrying a group of items from an entry end towards an exit end of the singulator; a hold and release system including an array of supports which lift items from below to hold the items off of the conveyor surface so that such items are not transported by the conveyor, and a retraction mechanism that can be operated to lower the supports beneath one item to permit one item to be transported by the conveyor; a vision system including a camera that records an image of the items to be singulated by the hold-and-release system; and a control system that controls operation of the conveyor and the hold-and-release system in a manner effective to remove the group of items from the exit end of the conveyor one at a time according to a removal scheme, which scheme includes logic for determining which supports support each item to be singulated using the image, and logic for determining the order in which the supports should be lowered in order to singulate the items. 9. The singulator of claim 8, wherein the conveyor includes a series of parallel belts positioned to carrying items from the entry end of the singulator towards the exit end of the singulator, and the supports are arranged in rows between the belts. 10. The singulator of claim 8, further comprising: an infeed conveyor adjacent the entry end of the singulator; means for determining when a sufficient group of items has passed onto the singulator conveyor from the infeed conveyor; and the control system further includes logic for stopping the infeed conveyor when the hold-and-release system is in operation. 11. The singulator of claim 8, wherein the control system further comprises: logic for determining which supports underlie items based on the image from the vision system; logic for determining groups of supports among those underlying items which underlie the same item; logic for raising the groups of supports which extend through the singulator conveyor in order to lift the items off of the singulator conveyor surface and successively lowering groups of supports which support each item. 12. The singulator of claim 8, wherein the vision system further comprises means for reducing parallax errors in the image. 13. The singulator of claim 12, wherein the means for reducing parallax errors comprises a mirror configured to focus light to the camera. 14. The singulator of claim 8, wherein the vision system is positioned upstream from the entry end of the singulator conveyor at a gap spanning the width of the entry end of the conveyor singulator and further comprises a light source for illuminating the gap as items pass over the gap, wherein the camera is positioned to receive light from the light source passing through the gap. 15. The singulator of claim 8, wherein the vision system further comprises a device for reducing parallax errors in the image. 