A zero gravity robotic tool includes a robotic arm having a distal end. A motor is mounted on the distal end of the robotic arm and is rotated about a motor axis which passes through the center of gravity of the motor and the tool. A prime mover is connected to the robotic arm and to a pivot mechanism for causing the rotation of the motor and the tool about the motor axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In combination: a robotic arm having a distal end; a motor having a rotatable arbor and a tool mounted to said arbor for rotation therewith about a tool axis, said motor and said tool having in combination a center of gravity; pivot mechanism connecting said motor and said tool to said distal end of said robotic arm for rotation about a motor axis which passes through said center of gravity of said motor and said tool; a prime mover connected to said distal end of said robotic arm and to said pivot mechanism for creating a rotational force to cause pivotal movement of said motor about said motor axis, whereby the force of gravity has negligible effect upon said rotational force regardless of the orientation of said motor with respect to gravity. 2. A combination according to claim 1 wherein said tool axis is oriented perpendicular to said motor axis. 3. A combination according to claim 2 wherein said pivot mechanism comprises a lever member pivotally connected to said distal end of said robotic arm for rotation about said motor axis, said lever member being attached to said motor. 4. A combination according to claim 3 wherein said prime mover is a fluid cylinder having an extensible rod. 5. A combination according to claim 4 wherein a spring is attached to said pivot mechanism and said distal end of said robotic arm, said spring providing a counterbalancing force to the force exerted by said fluid cylinder and said extensible rod. 6. The combination of claim 1 wherein the prime mover pivots the tool into engagement with the work piece. 7. A method for minimizing the effect of gravity on the force at which a robotic arm applies a tool to a work piece, said method comprising: rotatably mounting a motor having a work tool thereon to the distal end of a robotic arm for rotation about a motor axis which passes through a center of gravity the combination of said motor and said tool; applying a predetermined rotational force to said motor and said work tool to cause said motor and said work tool to rotate about said motor axis, whereby the passing of said motor axis through said center of gravity will cause gravity to have a negligible effect upon said predetermined rotational force regardless of the orientation of said motor and said tool with respect to gravity. 8. A method according to claim 6 and further comprising using said predetermined rotational force to move said tool into engagement with said work piece, and controlling the magnitude of said predetermined rotational force to control the pressure at which said tool engages said work. 9. A method according to claim 8 and further comprising using said motor to rotate said tool about a tool axis while said tool is in engagement with said work piece. 10. A method according to claim 8 and further comprising applying said pressure of said tool against said work piece in a direction perpendicular to said tool axis. 11. The method of claim 7 wherein the rotational force pivots the tool into engagement with the work piece. 12. A robotic system for performing work on a work piece, comprising: a robotic arm; a motor pivotally mounted on the arm for rotation about a pivot axis; a tool mounted on the motor said motor and said tool having in combination a center of gravity; a prime mover operatively extending between the arm and the motor to pivot the motor about the pivot axis; and the pivot axis extending in close proximity to the center of gravity. 13. The robotic system of claim 10 wherein the pivot axis passes through the center of gravity. 14. The robotic system of claims 12 wherein the motor and tool pivot in an angular orientation with respect to the work piece. 15. The robotic system of claim 12 further comprising a lever arm pivotally mounted on the robotic arm and connected to the motor, wherein the prime mover has opposite ends connected to the robotic arm and the lever arm, respectively. 16. The robotic system of claim 15 wherein the prime mover is a cylinder with an extensible and retractable rod. 17. The robotic system of claim 12 further comprising a spring to normally bias the motor and tool to an inoperative position. 18. The robotic system of claim 12 wherein the tool includes an axis of rotation substantially perpendicular to the pivot axis. 19. The robotic system of claim 12 wherein the prime mover pivots the tool into engagement with the work piece. 