A system and method for accurate measurement of distance and location of an object. The system comprises low-cost optical signal generators, aligned in a known configuration, to project a two-dimensional geometric figure on the object to be measured, or on a target attached to the object. The system captures an image of the projected figure, determines the exact geometry (e.g., area or circumference) of the figure, and calculates the exact distance to the object based on comparison of that geometry to the known configuration of the laser line generators. The invention simultaneously determines relative X and Y position of the object, thereby giving accurate X, Y, and Z coordinates.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for measuring distance to a target along a Z axis within a measurement range, comprising: at least one optical signal generator, aimed to project onto the target a signal in the form of a two-dimensional outline of a shape; an image device aimed to capture a reflected image of the two-dimensional outline of the shape; and an image analyzer, connected to the image device, configured to compute distance to the target from a geometric parameter of the reflected image. 2. A system for measuring location of a target in at least one dimension within a measurement range, comprising: at least one optical sign generator, aimed to project onto the target a signal in the form of a two-dimensional outline of a shape; a contrasting feature on the target; an image device aimed to capture a reflected image of the two-dimensional outline of the shape; and an image analyzer, connected to the image device, configured to compute, from a geometric parameter of the reflected image, the distance to the target along a Z axis; locate a point within the contrasting feature relative to a field of view of the image device; use the result of ii) to compute, as a function of the distance computed in i), location of the target in at least one dimension. 3. A method for measuring distance to a target along a Z axis within a measurement range, comprising: projecting onto the target a two-dimensional outline of a shape; capturing a reflected image of the two-dimensional outline of the shape; and computing distance to the target from a geometric parameter of the reflected image. 4. A method for measuring location of a target in three dimensions within a measurement range, comprising: projecting onto the target an outline of a shape; capturing an image of the outline of the shape; capturing an image of a contrasting feature on the target; computing, from a geometric parameter of the reflected image, distance to the target along a Z axis; locating a point within the contrasting feature relative to a field of view; and using the result of e) to compute, as a function of the distance computed in d), location of the target in X and Y directions. 5. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the geometric parameter is the perimeter of the geometric figure. 6. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the two-dimensional geometric figure is symmetric. 7. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the two-dimensional geometric figure is a polygon. 8. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the two-dimensional geometric figure is a triangle. 9. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the image device is an electronic camera. 10. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the image analyzer determines the distance to the target using at least one of: a calibrated magnification of the system and the two-dimensional geometric parameter; a calibrated lookup table; and a mathematical equation. 11. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the optical signal generators rotate to change dimensions of the two-dimensional geometric figure. 12. The system of claim 1 or 2, in which the optical signal generators are laser line generators. 13. A target for determining location within a measurement range, comprising: a base having a flat retroreflective surface region; a flat contrasting inset region located within, and flush with, the flat retroreflective surface; and a transparent protective cover over the retroreflective and contrasting regions. 14. The combination of the system of claim 1 or claim 2 and the target of claim 13. 15. A method for measuring distance to a target along a Z axis within a measurement range, comprising: a) projecting onto the target a two-dimensional geometric figure; b) capturing a reflected image of the two-dimensional geometric figure; and c) computing distance to the target from a geometric parameter of the reflected image. 16. A method for measuring location of a target in three dimensions within a measurement range, comprising: a) projecting onto the target a geometric figure; b) capturing an image of the geometric figure; c) capturing an image of a contrasting feature on the target; d) computing, from a geometric parameter of the reflected image, distance to the target along a Z axis; e) locating a point within the contrasting feature relative to a field of view; and f) using the result of e) to compute, as a function of the distance computed in d), location of the target in X and Y directions. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising illuminating the contrasting feature on the target and capturing a reflected image of the contrasting feature. 18. The method of claim 16, in which the point is the geometric center of the contrasting feature. 19. The method of claim 15 or 16, further comprising providing at least one optical element through which the projecting or capturing occur(s). 20. The method of claim 15 or 16, further comprising aiming an image device along the Z axis to capture the reflected image. 21. The method of claim 15 or 16, in which the geometric parameter is the perimeter of the geometric figure. 22. The method of claim 15 or 16, in which the two-dimensional geometric figure is symmetric. 23. The method of claim 15 or 16, in which the two-dimensional geometric figure is a polygon. 24. The method of claim 15 or 16, in which the geometric figure is a triangle. 25. The method of claim 15 or 16, further comprising determining the distance to the target using at least one of: a calibrated magnification of the system and the two-dimensional geometric parameter; a calibrated lookup table; and a mathematical equation. 26. The method of claim 15 or 16, further comprising rotating the optical signal generators to change dimensions of the two-dimensional geometric figure. 