A catalyst composition is applied to an interior of a hollow substrate. The composition is coated on the substrate by immersing the substrate into a vessel containing a bath of coating slurry. A vacuum is then applied to the partially immersed substrate. The intensity of the vacuum and its application time is sufficient to draw the coating slurry upwardly from the bath into each of a plurality of channels located in the interior of the hollow substrate. After removing the substrate from the bath, it is rotated 180.degree.. A blast of pressurized air is applied at an intensity and for a time sufficient to distribute the coating slurry within the channels of the substrate to form a uniform coating profile therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for applying a catalyst to the interior of a hollow substrate comprising: a coating station comprising a dip pan containing a slurry of the catalyst; a vacuum cone operatively engaged to apply a vacuum to the substrate; an air blast station for supplying a blast of pressurized air to the substrate, said air blast station comprising an upper hood, a receiving hood and an air supply operatively connected to the upper hood; a platform witch is movable between the coating station and the air blast station; an inflatable bladder clamp mixed to the platform; and a rotational device for rotating the substrate 180.degree.. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising a station for loading the substrate into the coating station and for unloading the substrate from the air blast station. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 2, further comprising a robotic arm for loading and unloading the substrate to and from the apparatus. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 2, further comprising at least one station for weighing the substrate. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 4, wherein one station for weighing the substrate is located between the loading/unloading station and the coating station, and another station for weighing the substrate is located between the air blast station and the loading/unloading station. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising a programmable computer for defining system parameters. 