Specimen edge-gripping prealigners (8, 80) grasp a wafer (10) by at least three edge-gripping capstans (12) that are equally spaced around a periphery (13) of the wafer. Each edge-gripping capstan is coupled by a continuous synchronous belt (14) to a drive hub (15, 84) that is rotated by a drive motor (18, 88). The belts are tensioned by idler pulleys (22, 92) that are rotated by a motive force (25, 96, 102). The edge-gripping capstans and the drive drums are mounted to hinged bearing housings (28, 112) that are spring biased to urge the capstans away from the drive hub. Deactivating the motive force rotates the idler plates into a belt tensioning position that draws the capstans inward to grip the periphery of the wafer. Once gripped, rotation of the drive hub is coupled through the tensioned belts to the capstans. Driving all the capstans provides positive grasping and rotation of the wafer without surface contact with the wafer and thereby reduces wafer damage and particle contamination.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for rotating a substantially planar, generally circular specimen having an effective center and a major surface with a periphery, the major surface including a work area and an exclusion zone extending outwardly of the work area to the periphery, comprising: a frame, multiple capstans mounted to the frame to support the specimen and rotate about different capstan axes relative to the frame, the multiple capstans mutually spaced apart at locations to receive and support the specimen by contact outwardly of the work area, and each of the capstans having a specimen receiving surface that when in contact with the specimen grips the specimen as the capstan rotates about its capstan axis; a drive mechanism that is common to all of the multiple capstans and includes a motor and a linkage mechanism, the motor imparting rotational motion to a shaft, and the linkage mechanism operatively coupled to the shaft and each of the multiple capstans to drive them in synchronous rotation about their respective capstan axes and thereby rotate the specimen without slippage between each of the multiple capstans and the specimen as it rotates through actual rotational angles; a rotary position detector operatively coupled to the shaft to track its rotational position; and a specimen peripheral edge sensing device operatively associated with the specimen to sense and provide a reference signal indicative of a reference location of the specimen as it rotates about its effective center, the rotary position detector operatively linked with the edge sensing device to respond to the reference signal to synchronize tracking of the rotation of the specimen and the rotation of the shaft and thereby provide an indication of the actual rotational angles of the specimen. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the linkage mechanism includes multiple continuous belts and in which each one of the capstans is operatively connected to one of the continuous belts. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further including multiple idler pulleys each of which is associated with one of the continuous belts, the idler pulleys being movable to place the continuous belts in alternate tensioned and untensioned states, the tensioned state drawing the capstans inwardly toward the specimen to grip it and the untensioned state drawing the capstans away from the specimen to release it. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further including an idler plate to which each idler pulley is mounted, the idler plate being movable to tension and untension the belts. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, in which the idler plate is moved by a spring or a solenoid. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, in which the idler plate is urged by a spring to place the continuous belts in the tensioned state and is moved against the spring by a fluid motor to place the continuous belts in the untensioned state. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, in which each continuous belt is coupled to the drive mechanism to rotate the capstans in unison. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 in which each one of the capstans is operatively connected to its associated continuous belt by a drive drum directly coupled to the associated capstan, the drive drum mounted for rotation in a housing pivotally mounted to the frame. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, in which each drive drum is journaled for rotation about the associated capstan axis. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, in which each housing is pivotally mounted to the frame about an axis spaced from its associated capstan axis and includes a spring to urge the housing and thereby its associated capstan away from the specimen. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the specimen is a semiconductor wafer. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, in which the semiconductor wafer has a diameter ranging from between about 200 mm to about 300 mm. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, in which each capstan has a load/unload ramp extending radially away from the capstan axis and downward relative to the plane of the specimen and a backstop portion that extends radially away from the capstan axis and upward relative to the plane of the specimen, the ramp portion and backstop portion forming an intersecting pair of truncated right conical sections having an included angle for gripping the specimen. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the ramp portion extends downward by an angle ranging from between about 0 degrees to about 5 degrees relative to the plane of the specimen. 15. The apparatus of claims 13, in which the backstop extends upward by an angle of about 87 degrees relative to the plane of the specimen. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, further including an optical sensor within which a light beam propagates and a protrusion, the optical sensor and the protrusion located on different ones of the frame and the housing, and the housing movable to alternately interrupt and not interrupt the light beam propagating within the optical sensor to indicate a wafer gripping state and a wafer releasing state. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, in which: the shaft rotates about a drive axis; the specimen peripheral edge sensing device includes an illumination source and a charged-coupled device array; and the illumination source illuminates the specimen to create an image of the specimen on the charged-coupled device array to indicate a radial distance between the drive axis and the periphery for each of a set of rotational angles of the specimen and to detect a lateral movement of the specimen. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further including an optical rotary encoder that provides feedback to the motor to determine in cooperation with the specimen the actual rotation angles. 19. Apparatus for rotating a substantially planar, generally circular specimen having a size, an effective center, and a peripheral edge, comprising: a frame; multiple capstans each of which including a capstan housing and a specimen edge-gripping surface that is rotatable about a capstan axis, the specimen edge-gripping surfaces mounted for rotation about their respective capstan axes in corresponding ones of the multiple capstan housings mounted to the frame, the multiple capstan housings positioned at mutually spaced-apart locations that allow the specimen edge-gripping surfaces with their respective capstan axes set in edge-nongripping positions to receive and support the specimen at its peripheral edge; two or more positioning mechanisms operatively coupled to corresponding ones of the specimen edge-gripping surfaces for selective, releasible displacements of their respective capstan axes relative to the frame, the positioning mechanisms imparting to their respective capstan axes selective displacements including radial components relative to the effective center of the specimen, the selective displacements causing the size of the specimen supported by the multiple capstans to establish specimen edge-gripping positions of the capstan axes; and a drive mechanism operable about a drive axis generally centrally located from and common to all of the multiple capstans and including a linkage mechanism, the linkage mechanism operatively coupled to each of the multiple capstans to drive them in synchronous rotation and thereby rotate the specimen edge-gripping surfaces about their respective capstan axes, the rotation of the specimen edge-gripping surfaces with the capstan axes in their specimen edge-gripping positions imparting to the specimen motive and radial forces that, respectively, rotate the specimen and provide for the specimen sufficient traction on the specimen edge-gripping surfaces to prevent slippage between each of the multiple capstans gripping the specimen and the specimen as it rotates. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, in which each housing is urged away from the specimen by a spring. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, in which each positioning mechanism includes a housing to which a capstan is mounted through a rotatable drive drum coupled to the linkage mechanism, the housing being pivotally mounted to the frame to pivotally move about an axis spaced from the capstan axis. 22. The apparatus of claim 19, further including an optical sensor within which a light beam propagates and a protrusion, the optical sensor and the protrusion located on different ones of the frame and the housing, and the housing movable to alternately interrupt and not interrupt the light beam propagating within the optical sensor to indicate a wafer gripping state and a wafer releasing state. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, further including: a rotary position detector operatively coupled to the drive mechanism to track its position about the drive axis; a specimen peripheral edge sensing device operatively associated with the specimen to sense and provide a reference signal indicative of a reference location of the specimen as it rotates about its effective center; and the rotary position detector operatively linked with the edge sensing device to respond to the reference signal to synchronize tracking of the rotation of the specimen and the rotation of the drive mechanism and thereby provide an indication of the actual rotational angles of the specimen. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, in which the edge sensing device includes an illumination source and a charged-coupled device array, and in which the illumination source illuminates the specimen to create an image of the specimen on the charged-coupled device array to indicate a radial distance between the drive axis and the peripheral edge for each of a set of rotational angles of the specimen and to detect a lateral movement of the specimen. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, further including an optical rotary encoder that provides feedback to the drive mechanism to determine in cooperation with the specimen the actual rotation angles. 26. The apparatus of claim 19, in which each positioning mechanism is selectively moved by the linkage mechanism. 27. The apparatus of claim 19, in which the linkage mechanism includes multiple continuous belts and in which each one of the capstans is operatively connected to one of the continuous belts. 28. The apparatus of claims 19, in which each capstan has a load/unload ramp extending radially away from the capstan axis and downward relative to the plane of the specimen and a backstop portion that extends radially away from the capstan axis and upward relative to the plane of the specimen, the ramp portion and backstop portion forming an intersecting pair of truncated right conical sections having an included angle for gripping the specimen. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, which each positioning mechanism includes a drive drum mounted for rotation within a housing pivotally mounted to the frame. 30. The apparatus of claim 19, in which the drive mechanism includes a rotary motor to rotate the capstans about their respective axes through the linkage mechanism. 31. The apparatus of claim 19, further including multiple idler pulleys each of which is associated with one of the continuous belts, the idler pulleys being movable to place the continuous belts in alternate tensioned and untensioned states, the tensioned state drawing the capstans inwardly toward the specimen to grip it and the untensioned state drawing the capstans away from the specimen to release it. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, further including an idler plate to which each idler pulley is mounted, the idler plate being movable to tension and untension the belts. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, in which the idler plate is moved by a spring or solenoid. 34. The apparatus of claim 32, in which the idler plate is urged by a spring to place the continuous belts in the tensioned state and is moved against the spring by a fluid motor to place the continuous belts in the untensioned state. 35. Apparatus for rotating a substantially planar, generally circular specimen having an effective center, opposed major surfaces, and a peripheral edge, comprising: a frame; multiple capstans each of which including a capstan housing and a specimen edge-gripping surface, the multiple capstans mounted for rotation about respective capstan axes in corresponding ones of the capstan housings mounted to the frame at mutually spaced-apart locations that allow the specimen edge-gripping surfaces of the multiple capstans to receive and support the specimen at its peripheral edge, the capstan axes defining corresponding reference datums for the specimen edge-gripping surfaces of the capstans, and each of the specimen edge-gripping surfaces including a ramp portion and a backstop portion joined to form an included angle between them, the backstop portion angularly inclined in a rotational sense relative to its corresponding reference datum such that the ramp portion and backstop portion confront each other and different ones of the opposed major surfaces of the specimen as the specimen edge-gripping surfaces support the specimen by positioning of its peripheral edge into the included angles formed in the specimen edge-gripping surfaces of the capstans; and a drive mechanism operatively coupled to the multiple capstans to rotate them about their respective capstan axes and thereby rotate the specimen about its effective center. 36. The apparatus of claim 35 further including an optical sensor within which a light beam propagates and a protrusion, the optical sensor and the protrusion located on different ones of the frame and the housing, and the housing movable to alternately interrupt and not interrupt the light beam propagating within the optical sensor to indicate a wafer gripping state and a wafer releasing state. 37. The apparatus of claim 35, further including a linkage mechanism for operably coupling the drive mechanism to the multiple capstans to rotate them about their respective capstan axes and thereby rotate the specimen about its effective center. 38. The apparatus of claim 37 in which the linkage mechanism includes multiple continuous belts and in which each one of the capstans is operatively connected to one of the continuous belts. 39. The apparatus of claim 38, in which each one of the capstans is operatively connected to its associated continuous belt by a drive drum directly coupled to the associated capstan, the drive drum mounted for rotation in a housing pivotally mounted to the frame. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein each housing is pivotally mounted to the frame about an axis spaced from its associated capstan axis and includes a spring to urge the housing and thereby its associated capstan away from the specimen. 41. The apparatus of claim 38, further including multiple idler pulleys each of which is associated with one of the continuous belts, the idler pulleys being movable to place the continuous belts in alternate tensioned and untensioned states, the tensioned state drawing the capstans inwardly toward the specimen to grip it and the untensioned state drawing the capstans away from the specimen to release it. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, further including an idler plate to which each idler pulley is mounted, the idler plate being movable to tension and untension the belts. 43. The apparatus of claim 42 in which the idler plate is urged by a spring to place the continuous belts in the tensioned state and is moved against the spring by a fluid motor to place the continuous belts in the untensioned state. 44. The apparatus of claim 42, in which the idler plate is movable by a spring or solenoid. 45. The apparatus of claim 35, in which the ramp portion extends downward by an angle ranging from between about 0 degrees to about 5 degrees relative to the plane of the specimen. 46. The apparatus of claim 45, in which the backstop extends upward by an angle of about 87 degrees relative to the plane of the specimen. 