The simultaneous synthesis of diverse organic compounds is performed in stackable modules which are moveable among nesting sites located on work station platforms. The reactor module includes a block adapted to receive an array of tube-like reactor vessels. The vessels are sized to optionally accept porus polyethelyene mircocannisters with radio frequency transmitter tags. Each vessel has a bottom port connected to an outlet tube. A valve block located below the reactor vessels simultaneously controls discharge through the outlet tubes. The valve block includes plates with aligned, relatively moveable sets of rib surfaces which act through Teflon encapsulated silicone O-ring cord sections to simultaneously close rows of outlet tubes. By first utilizing reactor vessels in one set of 48 positions, out of the possible 52 reactor vessel positions in the reactor block, and then utilizing reactor vessels in the other set of 48 positions and shifting the relative position of the collection plate, a single reactor can be employed to discharge into all of the wells of a standard 96 well microtiter collection plate. The apparatus can be used to perform the entire synthesis or only the final cleavage step of a radio frequency tagged synthesis.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus useful for the synthesis of multiple organic compounds comprising a plurality of functional components stackable in different configurations to form the apparatus and alignment means cooperating with said components to align same, said alignment means being mounted on one of said components and comprising a first section having a first surface adapted to support a second component and a second section having a second surface adapted to support a third component, each of said sections having a different diameter. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a third section. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said third section has a different diameter than said first and second sections. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said third section has a pointed tip. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said second component comprises a temperature control block. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a pressure plate, said pressure plate being mounted above said temperature control block. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said third component comprises an alignment plate. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a pressure plate mounted above said alignment plate. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said components include a valve block and wherein said alignment means are mounted on said valve block. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said alignment means comprises a standoff. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said alignment means comprises four standoffs. 