A cover for a PCR plate having multiple wells including a rigid sheet, and a resiliently compliable sheet cooperating with one side of the substantially rigid sheet to a press a sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells. The cover further includes at least one retaining device attached to the rigid sheet to engage with the PCR plate and retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate. Also disclosed is an assembly that includes a PCR plate and a cover that is designed to prevent sample loss.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cover for retaining a sealing sheet on a surface of a PCR plate, wherein the PCR plate has sample wells depending from and opening through the surface and a peripheral wall surrounding the sample wells and connected to a base, the cover comprising: a substantially rigid sheet capable of maintaining the surface of the PCR plate in a pre-thermal-cycling shape during a PCR thermal cycling process; a resiliently compliable sheet cooperable with one side of the substantially rigid sheet to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells; a plurality of holes in the substantially rigid sheet and in the resiliently compliable sheet, each hole being of a size and shape capable of allowing optical access therethrough; and at least one retaining device attached to the substantially rigid sheet and engagable with the PCR plate to retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate. 2. The cover of claim 1, wherein each said hole is arranged so as to correspond to and align with a respective well of the PCR plate. 3. A cover for retaining a sealing sheet on a surface of a PCR plate, wherein the PCR plate has sample wells depending from and opening through the surface, and a peripheral wall surrounding the sample wells and connected to a base, the cover comprising: a substantially rigid sheet capable of maintaining the surface of the PCR plate in a pre-thermal-cycling shape during a PCR thermal cycling process; a resiliently compliable sheet cooperable with one side of the substantially rigid sheet to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells; and at least one retaining device attached to the substantially rigid sheet and engagable with the PCR plate to retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate, wherein the resiliently compliable sheet is attached to the substantially rigid sheet with an adhesive. 4. A cover for retaining a sealing sheet on a surface of a PCR plate, wherein the PCR plate has sample wells depending from and opening through the surface, and a peripheral wall surrounding the sample wells and connected to a base, the cover comprising: a substantially rigid sheet capable of maintaining the surface of the PCR plate in a pre-thermal-cycling shape during a PCR thermal cycling process; a resiliently compliable sheet cooperable with one side of the substantially rigid sheet to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells; and at least one retaining device attached to the substantially rigid sheet and engagable with the PCR plate to retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate, wherein the resiliently compliable sheet is pre-manufactured with one side having an adhesive thereon, and covered by a pealable sheet. 5. A cover for retaining a sealing sheet on a surface of a PCR plate wherein the PCR plate has sample wells depending from and opening through the surface, and a peripheral wall surrounding the sample wells and connected to a base, the cover comprising: a substantially rigid sheet capable of maintaining the surface of the PCR plate in a pre-thermal-cycling shape during a PCR thermal cycling process; a resiliently compliable sheet cooperable with one side of the substantially rigid sheet to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells; and at least one retaining device attached to the substantially rigid sheet and engagable with the PCR plate to retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate, wherein the at least one retaining device extends from an edge of the substantially rigid sheet, and wherein the at least one retaining device further is substantially perpendicular to the substantially rigid sheet. 6. The cover of claim 5, wherein the at least one retaining device further includes an L-shaped projection to releasably engage the base of the PCR plate. 7. The cover of claim 6, wherein the cover and the PCR plate are rectangular to provide opposite sides and opposite ends on the respective substantially rigid sheet and PCR plate and including the at least one retaining device on the opposite sides of the substantially rigid sheet. 8. The cover of claim 7, wherein the at least one retaining device further comprises a retaining device on each of the opposite ends of the substantially rigid sheet. 9. The cover of claim 6, wherein the at least one retaining device is provided in a wall depending from each side of the substantially rigid sheet. 10. The cover of claim 9 including a pair of spaced retaining devices in the wall depending from each side of the substantially rigid sheet, the wall extending along substantially the full length of each side of the substantially rigid sheet and being substantially perpendicular thereto. 11. The cover of claim 10, wherein each of said retaining devices further comprises a clip projecting at an angle from the depending wall such that the clip is adapted to engage a peripheral wall of the PCR plate. 12. The cover of claim 11, wherein the angle is about 20 to 45 degrees. 13. The cover of claim 12, wherein the angle is about 20 to 30 degrees. 14. The cover of claim 13 including a depending wall at each end of the substantially rigid sheet to position the cover lengthwise on the PCR plate. 15. The cover of claim 14, wherein the depending wall at each end of the substantially rigid sheet is substantially perpendicular thereto. 16. A cover for retaining a sealing sheet on a surface of a PCR plate, wherein the PCR plate has sample wells depending from and opening through the surface, and a peripheral wall surrounding the sample wells and connected to a base, the cover comprising: a substantially rigid sheet capable of maintaining the surface of the PCR plate in a pre-thermal-cycling shape during a PCR thermal cycling process; a resiliently compliable sheet cooperable with one side of the substantially rigid sheet to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells; and at least one retaining device attached to the substantially rigid sheet and engagable with the PCR plate to retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate, wherein the substantially rigid sheet substantially fits into a space defined by the surface of the PCR plate and the peripheral wall of the PCR plate. 17. A cover for retaining a sealing sheet on a surface of a PCR plate, wherein the PCR plate has sample wells depending from and opening through the surface, and a peripheral wall surrounding the sample wells and connected to a base, the cover comprising: a substantially rigid sheet capable of maintaining the surface of the PCR plate in a pre-thermal-cycling shape during a PCR thermal cycling process; a resiliently compliable sheet cooperable with one side of the substantially rigid sheet to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells; and at least one retaining device attached to the substantially rigid sheet and engagable with the PCR plate to retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate, wherein the at least one retaining device aligns with ribs located on the peripheral wall of the PCR plate. 18. Apparatus for processing samples in PCR, comprising: a PCR plate having sample wells depending from and opening through a surface in the plate, and a peripheral wall surrounding the sample wells and connected to a base; a cover for the PCR plate, the cover comprising: a substantially rigid sheet capable of maintaining the surface of the PCR plate in a pre-thermal-cycling shape during a PCR thermal cycling process; a resiliently compliable sheet cooperating with one side of the substantially rigid sheet and capable of pressing a sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate to maintain a seal in the wells; and at least one retaining device attached to the substantially rigid sheet and engagable with the PCR plate to retain the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet in a condition to press the sealing sheet against the surface of the PCR plate, wherein the substantially rigid sheet and the resiliently compliable sheet have holes alignable with the respective sample wells in the PCR plate, each of the holes being of a size and shape allowing optical access through the cover to the sample wells. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 including means for aligning the holes in the cover with the sample wells in the PCR plate. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the cover has peripheral walls and the means for aligning the holes in the cover with the sample wells in the PCR plate comprises ribs on the peripheral walls of the PCR plate engageable with the peripheral walls of the cover. 21. The cover of claim 1, wherein the resiliently compliable sheet is attached to the substantially rigid sheet with an adhesive. 22. The cover of claim 1, wherein the resiliently compliable sheet is pre-manufactured with one side having an adhesive thereon, and covered by a pealable sheet. 23. The cover of claim 1, wherein the at least one retaining device extends from an edge of the substantially rigid sheet. 24. The cover of claim 23, wherein the at least one retaining device further is substantially perpendicular to the substantially rigid sheet. 25. The cover of claim 24, wherein the at least one retaining device further includes an L-shaped projection to releasably engage the base of the PCR plate. 26. The cover of claim 25, wherein the cover and the PCR plate are rectangular to provide. opposite sides and opposite ends on the respective substantially rigid sheet and PCR plate and including the at least one retaining device on the opposite sides of the substantially rigid sheet. 27. The cover of claim 26, wherein the at least one retaining device further comprises a retaining device on each of the opposite ends of the substantially rigid sheet. 28. The cover of claim 25, wherein the at least one retaining device is provided in a wall depending from each side of the substantially rigid sheet. 29. The cover of claim 28, including a pair of spaced retaining devices in the wall depending from each side of the substantially rigid sheet, the wall extending along substantially the full length of each side of the substantially rigid sheet and being substantially perpendicular thereto. 30. The cover of claim 29, wherein each of said retaining devices further comprises a clip projecting at an angle from the depending wall such that the clip is adapted to engage a peripheral wall of the PCR plate. 31. The cover of claim 30, wherein the angle is about 15 to 45 degrees. 32. The cover of claim 31, wherein the angle is about 20 to 30 degrees. 33. The cover of claim 32, including a depending wall at each end of the substantially rigid sheet to position the cover lengthwise on the PCR plate. 34. The cover of claim 33, wherein the depending wall at each end of the substantially rigid sheet is substantially perpendicular thereto. 35. The cover of claim 1, wherein the substantially rigid sheet substantially fits into a space defined by the surface of the PCR plate and the peripheral wall of the PCR plate. 36. The cover of claim 1, wherein the at least one retaining device overlies a notch in the peripheral wall of the PCR plate. 37. The cover of claim 1, wherein the at least one retaining device aligns with ribs located on the peripheral wall of the PCR plate. 