A coupling device for connecting a first mobility platform to a second mobility platform in tandem. An example mobility platform is a robot. The coupling device has a loose link mode for normal steering conditions and a locking position, tight link mode for navigation across difficult terrain and across obstacles, for traversing chasms, and for navigating with a reduced footprint in tight steering conditions.
Claims We claim: 1. A tandem coupling device, for connecting a first mobility platform and a second mobility platform to form a cooperating tandem mobility platform, comprising: a) a connector, mounted with the first mobility platform; b) a companion receiver substantially limiting angular motion in the horizontal plane relative to the first mobility platform and the second mobility platform; wherein the companion receiver is mounted with the second mobility platform and is mate-able with the connector; the companion receiver comprising a pair of membvers moveable between a closed position and an open position, wherein the companion receiver in the closed position surrounds the connector connecting the first mobility platform with the second mobility platform to form the cooperating tandem mobility platform; and c) actuator means for controllably moving the connector and the companion receiver members between the closed position and the open position. 2. The tandem coupling device of claim 1, wherein the first mobility platform is a robot, and wherein the second mobility platform is a robot. 3. The tandem coupling device of claim 1, wherein: a) the connector comprises a split ball; and b) the actuator means comprises a rod assembly, mounted with the first mobility platform, having a rod, insertable within the split ball to controllably increase the diameter of the split ball. 4. The tandem coupling device of claim 3, wherein the companion receiver comprises a socket for holding the split ball when the diameter of the split ball is increased, the socket being sized to be disengaged from the split ball when the rod is withdrawn to reduce the diameter of the split ball. 5. The tandem coupling device of claim 4, wherein the actuator means further comprises: a) a cylindrical sleeve, slidable over the socket, and having an open end facing the first mobility platform; and b) means for sliding the sleeve over the socket to hold the pair of members in the closed position. 6. The tandem coupling device of claim 5, wherein the connector mated with the companion receiver is responsive to multiple-axis motion in the closed position. 7. The tandem coupling device of claim 1, wherein: a) the connector comprises a cylinder; b) the companion receiver comprises a gripper; and c) the actuator means comprises an actuator, mounted with the coupling housing. 8. The tandem coupling device of claim 7, wherein the gripper comprises: a) a coupling housing; and b) two opposed coupling jaws mounted with the coupling housing and actuated with the actuator. 9. The tandem coupling device of claim 8 wherein each jaw comprises a U-shaped member comprising a base having a leg extending from each end of the base to a leg end, the jaw being pivotally connected to the housing at a location along the base, the jaws being pivotally connected to each other and the actuator at a location adjacent the leg end of one leg, the other leg of each jaw opening and closing around the cylinder. 10. The tandem coupling device of claim 9 wherein the housing has an end facing the connector, the end having a recess having a semi-circular cross-section for holding the cylinder. 11. The tandem coupling device of claim 10 wherein the housing end further includes a slot transverse to and extending on either side of the recess, the coupling jaws being mounted within the slot. 12. The tandem coupling device of claim 11 wherein the pivot for one leg extends across the slot on one side of the recess, and the pivot for the other leg extends across the slot on the other side of the recess. 13. The tandem coupling device of claim 9, wherein the pivot for each leg comprises: a) a powered joint, capable of moving the jaw to a plurality of positions; and b) a position-lock, operably connected with the jaw, and locking the jaw in a fixed position relative to the other jaw. 14. The tandem coupling device of claim 13, wherein the position-lock locks the first mobility platform and the second mobility platform in a substantially V-shape. 15. The tandem coupling device of claim 13, wherein the position-lock locks the first mobility platform and the second mobility platform in a substantially inverted-V-shape. 16. The tandem coupling device of claim 13, wherein the position-lock locks the first mobility platform and the second mobility platform in a substantially linear shape. 17. A method for terrain navigation mobility using a coupling device connecting a tandem vehicle comprising a first mobility platform and a second mobility platform, the coupling device comprising a connector mounted with the first mobility platform and a companion receiver, mounted with the second mobility platform, the companion receiver comprising a pair of members, the method comprising: a) mating the connector with the companion receiver to limit angular motion in the horizontal plane relative to the first mobility platform and the second mobility platform; b) controllably moving the companion receiver members to a closed position surrounding the connector to loosely link the first mobility platform to the second mobility platform to form the tandem vehicle; and c) synergistically operating the first mobility platform and the second mobility platform as the tandem vehicle. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: a) moving the coupling device to a fixed position; and b) locking the coupling device in the fixed position, tightly linking the first mobility platform to the second mobility platform in a terrain-mobility-shape. 