A high precision positioning device includes an end effector and a platen spaced therebelow for receiving a workpiece. One of the end effector and the platen is moveable in the X-Y plane. One of the end effector and the platen is moveable in the Z direction. The device includes senors for sensing the position of the end effector in the X, Y and Z directions relative to the platen. The apparatus includes a control system for controlling the movement of the end effector relative to the platen and adjusting the position of the end effector relative to the X. Y and Z position as sensed by the sensors. Preferably the platen is generally parallel to the X-Y plane and the Z direction is normal to the platen. Preferably the control system uses a position, velocity and acceleration control system for controlling the movement in the X and Y direction and an impedance control system for controlling the movement in the Z direction. The method of operating the high precision positioning device uses a host computer and an embedded computer. The method includes the steps of receiving and checking data; sending and decoding the checked data and determining when a move command appears; instructing a move command and determining set-point data for the move command; sending set-point data to regulator task module and sending data from the positional sensors to the regulator task module; determining the control parameters in the regulator task module and activating the motors to move the end effector.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A high precision positioning device comprising: an end effector; a platen spaced below the end effector for receiving a workpiece; a means for moving one of the end effector and the platen in the X-Y plane; a means for moving one of the end effector and the platen in the Z direction; a sensing means for sensing the position of the end effector in the X, Y and Z direction; and a control system for controlling the movement of the end effector relative to the platen and adjusting the position of the end effector relative to the platen and the X, Y and Z position as sensed by the sensing means and wherein the control system includes an impedance control system that emulates a spring-mass-damper system for movement in the Z direction. 2. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the control system uses a position control system with different velocity and acceleration profiles for movement in the X and Y direction. 3. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the end effector is a capillary tube dispenser having a hole therein and a spotting end and an upper end and the upper end being connected to an electro-pneumatic control circuit for controlling the pressure in the capillary tube. 4. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the end effector is a dispensing head having a plurality of capillary tube dispensers each dispenser having a hole therein and a spotting end and an upper end and the upper end being connected to an electro-pneumatic control circuit for controlling the pressure in the capillary tube. 5. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the dispenser is a capillary reel dispenser including a capillary tube, a capillary reel having the capillary tube wound therearound, a means for advancing the capillary tube and a cutter for cutting off the used portion of the capillary tube. 6. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the end effector is a dispensing head including a plurality of capillary reel dispensers each dispenser including a capillary tube, a capillary reel having the capillary tube wound therearound, a means for advancing the capillary tube and a means for cutting off the used portion of the capillary tube. 7. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the platen is generally parallel to the X-Y plane and the Z direction is generally normal to the platen. 8. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 7 wherein the X-Y moving means includes an X linear actuator connected to one of the end effector and the platen for movement along the X axis and a Y linear actuator connected to one of the end effector and the platen for movement along the Y axis. 9. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the X linear actuator is moveably connected to the end effector. 10. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 9 wherein the Y linear actuator is moveably connected to X linear actuator and thereby connected to the end effector. 11. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 10 wherein the Z moving means is a vertical arm connected to end effector and moveably connected to the Y linear actuator. 12. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 11 wherein the X linear actuator includes an X guideway, a ball screw having effective zero backlash connecting the X guideway to the Y linear actuator and a motor operably connected to the ball screw. 13. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 12 wherein the Y linear actuator includes a Y guideway, a ball screw having effective zero backlash connecting the Y guideway to the vertical arm and a motor operably connected to the ball screw. 14. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 13 wherein the vertical arm includes a guideway portion, a traveling portion, a ball screw having effective zero backlash connecting the travelling portion to the guideway portion and a motor operably connected to the ball screw. 15. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 14 wherein the sensing means includes an X axis sensor connected to the X guideway for sensing the position of the end effector in the X direction; a Y axis sensor connected to the Y guideway for sensing the position of the end effector in the Y direction; and a Z axis sensor connected to the vertical arm for sensing the position of the end effector in the Z direction. 16. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 15 wherein the X axis sensor is an optical measuring device that measures the turns of the ball screw on the connection between the X guideway and the Y guideway, the Y axis sensor is an optical measuring device that measures the turns of the ball screw on the connection between the Y guideway and the vertical arm and the Z axis sensor is an optical measuring device that measures the turns of the ball screw on the connection between the travelling portion and the guideway portion of the vertical arm. 17. A high precision positioning device as claimed in claim 15 wherein the end effector is a dispensing head having at least one dispenser extending downwardly therefrom. 