Disclosed is an apparatus for passing solid objects for use in a robotic tool changing system. The apparatus comprises a housing mounted on either a master assembly or a tool assembly. A tubular member is disposed in the housing and defines a passage through which solid objects can pass. The tubular member includes a head portion at one end and a stem portion at the other end that is connected to a solid objects feed tube. Means are provided for retaining the tubular member in the opening in the housing for movement relative to the housing during the coupling and uncoupling of the master and tool assemblies to accommodate misalignment of the master and tool assemblies. Another apparatus is disclosed for passing solid objects from a source to a work tool. The apparatus comprises first and second housings mounted on a master assembly and tool assembly, each housing tubular members. A robotic tool changing system is also provided for exchanging tools on an end of a robot arm, including a tool for attaching fasteners from a fastener source transported through feed tubes connected to the stem portions of the tubular members. The tubular members can move relative to the longitudinal axis of the respective housings and rotate freely about the axis when in contact with an arcuate bearing surface that partially defines the opening in the housing. Contact faces of the tubular members are formed to allow relative movement of the tubular members when the tubular members are engaged.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for passing solid objects for use in a robotic tool changing system including a master assembly for attaching to the end of a robot arm, a tool assembly for attaching to a tool, means for coupling the tool assembly to the master assembly, and a feed tube for transporting solid objects, the apparatus for passing solid objects comprising: a housing adapted to be mounted on either of the master assembly or the tool assembly, the housing having an opening therethrough; a tubular member disposed in the housing and defining a passage for permitting the solid objects to pass through the tubular member, the tubular member including a head portion at one end and a stem portion at the other end, the head portion of the tubular member having a contact face and an arcuate outer surface extending from the face to the stem portion, the stem portion adapted to be connected to the feed tube; and means for retaining the tubular member in the opening in the housing and for accommodating movement of the tubular member relative to the housing during the coupling and uncoupling of the master and tool assemblies to accommodate misalignment of the master and tool assemblies. 2. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 1, wherein the housing has an arcuate bearing surface partially defining the opening in the housing for mating contact with the outer surface of the head portion of the tubular member, wherein the tubular member can move relative to the central longitudinal axis of the housing and rotate freely about the axis when in contact with the bearing surface. 3. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 1, wherein a portion of the stem portion of the tubular member extends from the opening at one end of the housing and has an annular groove, and the retaining means comprises a snap ring disposed in the groove, the diameter of the snap ring being larger than the diameter of the opening in the one end of the housing and the groove positioned for allowing relative axial movement of the tubular member in the housing when the snap ring is in the groove. 4. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 3, further comprising means for biasing the tubular member to a first axial position relative to the housing so that the snap ring engages the one end of the housing. 5. An apparatus adapted to be disposed between a work tool and an instrumentality controlling the work tool to pass solid objects to the work tool for use in a robotic tool changing system including a master assembly for attaching to the end of a robot arm, a tool assembly for attaching to the tool, means for coupling the tool assembly to the master assembly, a first feed tube for transporting the solid objects from a source of the solid objects to the apparatus, and a second feed tube for transporting the solid objects from the apparatus to the tool, the apparatus for passing solid objects comprising: first and second housings adapted to be mounted on the master assembly and tool assembly, respectively, each of the housings having a central axis and an opening therethrough; first and second tubular members disposed in the housings and each defining a passage for permitting the solid objects to pass through the tubular members, the tubular members including a head portion at one end and a stem portion at the other end, each of the head portions of the tubular members having a contact face and an arcuate outer surface extending from the face to the stem portion, and each of the stem portions adapted to be connected to the respective feed tube; and means for retaining the first and second tubular members in the openings in the first and second housings, respectively, and for accommodating movement of the tubular members relative to the housing during the coupling and uncoupling of the master and tool assemblies to accommodate misalignment of the master and tool assemblies, wherein the coupling of the master assembly to the tool assembly causes the contact face of the first tubular member to engage the contact face of the second tubular member for defining a continuous passageway for passing solid objects through the tubular members. 6. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 5, wherein each housing has an arcuate bearing surface partially defining the openings in the housings for mating contact with the outer surface of the head portion of the tubular members, wherein the engaged tubular members can move relative to the respective central longitudinal axis of the housings and rotate freely about the axis when in contact with the bearing surface. 7. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 5, wherein the contact faces of the tubular members are formed to allow relative movement of the tubular members when the tubular members are engaged. 8. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 7, wherein the contact faces of the tubular members are planar. 9. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 7, wherein the contact face of the first tubular member is concave and the contact face of the second tubular member is convex. 10. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 5, wherein a portion of the stem portion of each tubular member extends from the opening at one end of the housings and has an annular groove, and the retaining means comprises a snap ring disposed in each groove, the diameter of the snap rings being larger than the diameter of the opening in the one end of the housings and the grooves positioned for allowing relative axial movement of the tubular members in the housings when the snap rings are in the grooves. 11. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 10, further comprising means for biasing at least one of the tubular members to a first axial position relative to the housing so that the respective snap ring engages the one end of the respective housing. 12. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 5, further comprising means for sealing the engaged contact faces of the tubular members and passageway against fluid leakage. 13. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 12, wherein the sealing means comprises an o-ring disposed in the contact face of one of the tubular members around the opening to the passage in the tubular member, the o-ring forming a raised seat configured to engage the contact face of the other tubular member and thereby form a fluid tight seal at the contact faces when the tubular members are engaged. 14. A robotic tool changing system for exchanging tools on an end of a robot arm, including a tool for attaching fasteners from a source of fasteners, the system comprising: a master assembly for attaching to the end of the robot arm; a tool assembly for attaching to the fastener attaching tool; means for operatively coupling the tool assembly to the master assembly, the coupled assemblies having a central longitudinal axis; first and second housings mounted on the master assembly and tool assembly, respectively, each of the housings having an opening therethrough; first and second tubular members disposed in the housings and each defining a passage for permitting fasteners to pass through the tubular members, the tubular members including a head portion at one end and a stem portion at the other end, each of the head portions of the tubular members having a contact face and an arcuate outer surface extending from the face to the stem portion; means for retaining the first and second tubular members in the openings in the first and second housings, respectively, and for accommodating movement of the tubular members relative to the housing during the coupling and uncoupling of the master and tool assemblies to accommodate misalignment of the master and tool assemblies; and first and second feed tubes connected to the stem portions of the first and second tubular members, respectively, for transporting fasteners from the source of fasteners to the first tubular member and from the exit port of the second tubular member to the fastener attaching tool, wherein the coupling of the master assembly to the tool assembly causes the contact face of the first tubular member to engage the contact face of the second tubular member for defining a conduit through the tubular members to allow a fastener to be transported from the source of fasteners through the first feed tube, the conduit, and the second feed tube to the fastener attaching tool. 15. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 14, wherein each housing has an arcuate bearing surface partially defining the opening in the respective housing for mating contact with the respective side surface of the respective head portion of the tubular members, wherein the engaged tubular members can move relative to the central longitudinal axis of the housings and rotate freely about the axis when in contact with the bearing surfaces. 16. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 14, wherein the contact faces of the tubular members are formed to allow relative movement of the tubular members when the tubular members are engaged. 17. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 16, wherein the contact faces of the tubular members are planar. 18. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 16, wherein the contact face of the first tubular member is concave and the contact face of the second tubular member is convex. 19. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 14, wherein a portion of the stem portion of each tubular member extends from the opening at one end of the housings and has an annular groove, and the retaining means comprises a snap ring disposed in each groove, the diameter of the snap rings being larger than the diameter of the opening in the one end of the housings and the grooves positioned for allowing relative axial movement of the tubular members in the housings when the snap rings are in the grooves. 20. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 19, further comprising means for biasing at least one of the tubular members to a first axial position relative to the housing so that the respective snap ring engages the one end of the respective housing. 21. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 14, further comprising means for sealing the engaged contact faces of the tubular members and passageway against fluid leakage. 22. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 21, where in the sealing means comprises an o-ring disposed in the contact face of one of the tubular members around the opening to the passage in the tubular member, the o-ring forming a raised seat configured to engage the contact face of the other tubular member and thereby form a fluid tight seal at the contact faces when the tubular members are engaged. 23. An apparatus for passing solid objects as recited in claim 21, further comprising means for biasing at least one of the tubular members against the other for generating contact pressure between the contact faces. 