A pneumatic tool for use on a robotic arm for applying adhesive tape around bundles of wire, cables and the like. Three hollow tubes are disposed in line abreast and extend from a body which includes a chamber with an inlet port to which pneumatic pressure or suction can be applied and two oppositely acting ball valves of which one is in communication with the central tube and the other is in communication with the interior of the outer tubes, which are hollow but which have a respective lateral aperture on the side facing the central tube. On the application of suction, the central tube can hold a length of adhesive tape and the tool can be advanced into contact with the bundle of wires around which the tape is to be applied. On the application of pneumatic pressure, the central tube releases the tape and the pressure applied to the interior of the outer tubes advances them forwardly, against the force of a return spring. Air jets issue from the lateral apertures in the tube to force the tape around the bundle of wires.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of applying a length of adhesive tape around a cable, bundle of wires or other generally cylindrical object, comprising: holding a length of the tape at the end of a tube by pneumatic suction; moving the said end of the tube to a position adjacent the object; advancing two probes, one on each side of and relative to the said tube so as to straddle the object; and providing a pneumatic jet laterally inwardly from at least one of the probes to blow a respective part of the tape around the object. 2. A method according to claim 1 in which the step of providing a pneumatic jet comprises applying pneumatic pressure to the respective probe to advance it relative to said tube, the probe conveying pneumatic pressure internally to a lateral aperture near a distal end of the probe. 3. A method according to claim 1 in which each probe provides a laterally directed pneumatic jet. 4. A tape-applying tool comprising a body, a tube extending from said body, said tube having a mouth, means for applying pneumatic suction to the tube, two elongate members mounted for longitudinal movement one on each side of the mouth of the said tube, means for applying pneumatic pressure to cause said members to advance relative to the mouth of the said tube, at least one of the members being adapted to convey said pressure and to provide a pneumatic jet across and in front of the mouth of said tube. 5. A tool according to claim 1 in which the said one member comprises a hollow piston. 6. A tool according to claim 1 further comprising means for progressively resisting the advance of the said one member. 7. A pneumatic tool for the application of adhesive tape around cables, bundles of wires and such like, comprising three hollow tubes of which at least the ends are disposed abreast, the tubes comprising a central tube which has an open end and two outer tubes of which at least one has a lateral aperture on its inner side, a body from which the tubes extend, the body being adapted for coupling to at least one pneumatic line, and means within the body for applying suction to the central tube and for applying pressure to the outer tubes to cause relative movement of the tubes such that the apertures are disposed forwardly of the central tube. 8. A tool according to claim 1 in which each outer tube has a closed end and an aperture as aforesaid, whereby pressure applied to the said outer tubes also provides pneumatic jets issuing from the apertures. 9. A tool according to claim 1 in which the said outer tubes are arranged for sliding movement with respect to the body and at least one spring is disposed to oppose the sliding movement. 10. A tool according to claim 1 in which the body includes an inlet port adapted for the reception of pressure or suction indifferently and two, oppositely acting, valves for automatically applying suction to the central tube and pressure to the said outer tubes. 11. A method of applying a length of tape having an adhesive surface and an opposite surface around a generally cylindrical object comprising: holding a length of the tape by engaging said opposite surface of the length of tape with the axially open end of a tube and applying pneumatic suction to the interior of the tube; arranging the tube and the cylindrical object such that the length of tape is adjacent the cylindrical object and at an angle to the axis of the article, said adhesive surface facing the object; advancing two hollow probes, one on each side of the tube, to positions beyond the open end of said tube so as to straddle the object; and supplying pneumatic pressure through the probes and discharging the pressure from the probes in the form of jets directed onto said opposite surface of the length of tape thereby blowing respective parts of the tape around the object. 