A binary accelerator is provided for coprocessing operation with a microcontroller. A common memory is shared by the accelerator and the microcontroller for storage of binary equations and equation solutions. The accelerator is formed from a plurality of PAL and LS devices and execute fetched binary instructions in accordance with a Reverse Polish Notation (RPN) system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for a robotic workcell having at least one electric robot and a plurality of workcell equipment items in turn having a plurality of control and sensor devices associated therewith, said system comprising: an electronic robot controller disposed at a first workcell location to operate said robot as a part of the workcell process; means for loading program data into said robot controller; at least one input/output control module disposed at a second workcell location and having connected thereto as inputs a first group of sensor devices and as outputs a first group of said control devices; and means for linking said robot controller and said input/output module to provide for program and process data communication; said input/output module having computing means including a microprocessor for operating the module in accordance with a system operating program downloadable from said robot controller to said module and for processing inputs and outputs in accordance with a user process program downloadable from said robot controller to the module; said input/output module further having coprocessor means for executing binary equation solutions and storing the results thereof for processing by said microprocessor and thereby accelerating the solution of said binary equations; wherein said coprocessor means includes circuit means for fetching binary instructions from memory and for sequentially executing the binary instructions to produce binary equation solutions in accordance with a reverse polish notation calculation system. 2. A control system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said coprocessor circuit means includes a plurality of PAL and LS devices organized to provide a memory address interface, storage means for binary instructions to be executed, a coprocessor state sequencer, and RPN stack and execution circuitry. 3. A control system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said PAL and LS devices include an LS device for a RPN stack, a PAL device operating as an up/down counter that serves as the stack pointer, and a PAL device serving as a logic execution unit having Top-of-Stack and Next-on-Stack bit storage locations and stored logic used in performing binary equation solutions. 4. A control system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said coprocessor state sequencer is a PAL device arranged to operate said coprocessor means to detect in sequence when a binary operation command has been generated by said microprocessor to fetch binary instructions for execution, to fetch any variable needed to execute binary instructions, to decode the type of binary operation required by each instruction, to execute the decoded binary instruction, to return for a new binary instruction and to clear the sequencer for a new operation when instruction execution is done. 5. A control system as set forth in claim 4 wherein said PAL and LS devices include an LS device for a RPN stack, a PAL device operating as an up/down counter that serves as the stack pointer, and a PAL device serving as a logic execution unit having Top-of-Stack and Next-on-Stack bit storage locations and stored logic used in performing binary equation solutions. 