A communication system for deaf, deaf-blind, or non-vocal individuals includes an instrumented glove for obtaining electrical signals indicative of a hand configuration of a first individual. Strain gage sensors in the glove flex with movement of the hand. Each sensor includes a tension strain gage and a compression strain gage which are serially connected and form two legs in a bridge circuit. Signals from the bridge circuit are amplified and digitized and applied to a computer which includes an adaptive pattern recognition algorithm which is responsive to hand-state vectors for recognizing letter beacons in hand-space. A second individual communicates with the first individual through the computer system using a portable keyboard. The output devices for communicating to the first and second individuals depend on the visual, vocal and hearing capabilities of the individuals and can be selected from a voice synthesizer, LCD monitor, or braille display.
Claims We claim: 1. An instrumented glove for use in a man-machine interface comprising a cover material configured to fit on the hand of a wearer, a plurality of variable resistance strain gage means supported by said cover material and positioned to flex with movement of the hand, said cover material including guiding pockets in which said strain gage means are supported, said strain gage means comprising strain gage responsive means mounted on a flexible support material, and means electrically connected to said plurality of strain gage means for transmitting changes in resistance of said plurality of strain gage means to circuitry of the machine system. 2. The instrumented glove as defined by claim 1 wherein each of said strain gage means comprises a support material and first and second strain gage responsive means on opposing sides of said support material, whereby flexure of said strain gage means flexes said first strain gage responsive means in compression and flexes said second strain gage responsive means in tension, and means electrically connected to said plurality of strain gage means for transmitting changes in resistance of said plurality of strain gage means to the circuitry of the machine system. 3. The instrumented glove as defined by claim 2 and further including means for serially connecting said first and second strain gage responsive means whereby said first and second strain gage responsive means can function as two legs in a bridge circuit. 4. The instrumented glove as defined by claim 1 wherein said glove exposes portions of the wearer's fingers. 5. The instrumented gloves as defined by claim 1 wherein said glove exposes a portion of the wearer's palm. 6. The instrumented glove as defined by claim 3 wherein each strain gage sensor means is provided in a multiplexed Wheatstone bridge configuration. 7. An instrumented glove according to claim 1, wherein said variable resistance strain gage means comprises straight strain gage responsive means. 8. A communication system for use by deaf, deaf-blind or non-vocal individuals comprising means for deriving electrical signals indicative of the configuration of a hand of a first individual including an instrumented glove having a cover material configured to fit on the hand of a wearer, a plurality of variable resistance strain gage sensor means supported by said cover material and positioned to flex with movement of the hand, said cover material including guiding pockets in which said strain sensor means are supported, and means for electrically connecting said plurality of strain gage means to circuitry of the communication system, computer means for receiving the electrical signals and determining letters corresponding to configurations of the hand, said computer means including an adaptive pattern recognition algorithm responsive to hand-state vectors for recognizing letter beacons in hand-space, and first output means responsive to said computer means for providing an output of letters recognized by said adaptive pattern recognition algorithm. 9. The communication system as defined by claim 8 and further including a portable keyboard means for providing inputs to said computer means, second output means responsive to said computer means for providing an output to said first individual whereby a second individual can communicate with said first individual through said keyboard means. 10. The communication system as defined by claim 9 wherein said first output means includes a voice synthesizer. 11. The communication system as defined by claim 10 wherein said second output means includes a liquid crystal display. 12. The communication system as defined by claim 10 wherein said second output means includes a braille display. 13. The communication system as defined by claim 9 wherein said first output means includes a liquid crystal display. 14. The communication system as defined by claim 13 wherein said second output means includes a liquid crystal display. 15. The communication system as defined by claim 13 wherein said second output means includes a braille display. 16. The communication system as defined by claim 8 wherein each of said strain gage means comprises a support material and first and second strain gage responsive means on opposing sides of said support material, whereby flexure of said strain gage means flexes said first strain gage responsive means in compression and flexes said second strain gage responsive means in tension. 17. The communication system as defined by claim 13 and further including means for serially connecting said first and second strain gage responsive means whereby said first and second strain gage responsive means can function as two legs in a bridge circuit. 18. The communication system as defined by claim 8 wherein each of said letter beacons includes a recognition hypersphere in hand-space in which the corresponding letter is recognized. 19. The communication system as defined by claim 18 wherein each of said letter beacons includes a second hypersphere outside of said recognition hypersphere which a hand-state vector must leave after the corresponding letter has been recognized before the corresponding letter can again be recognized. 20. The communication system as defined by claim 19 wherein said adaptive pattern recognition algorithm detects reduced hand-state velocity and there determines the nearest letter beacon to a hand-state vector. 21. The communication system as defined by claim 20 wherein the nearest letter beacon is determined by Least Squares distance. 22. The communication system as defined by claim 21 wherein the hand-state vector can be within the recognition hypersphere of both the nearest letter beacon and the second-nearest letter beacon. 23. The communication system as defined by claim 21 wherein recognition is permitted when the least squares distance from the hand-state vector to the nearest letter beacon is less than the least squares distance from the hand-state vector to the second closest letter beacon by more than a recognition confidence margin. 24. The communication system as defined by claim 21 wherein the currently recognized letter beacon is unrecognized whenever the least squares distance from the hand-state vector to any letter beacon is less than the least squares distance from the hand-state vector to the currently recognized letter beacon by more than a beacon-to-beacon hysteresis margin. 25. The communication system as defined by claim 21 wherein the search order calculation for determining the next nearest letter beacon starts by calculating the least squares distance to the most recent nearest letter beacon, then calculates the least squares distance to the most recent second nearest letter beacon, and then proceeds by checking the remaining letter beacons in order of decreasing probability of occurrence, where each least squares distance calculation is prematurely terminated whenever the running sum total of the squares of individual joint errors exceeds the calculated least squares distance from the hand-state to the current second closest letter beacon. 