A method and apparatus is disclosed for handling semiconductor wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which permits moving the wafer from one processing station to another without direct handling of the wafer and which also permits equal processing of both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer. A wafer retaining ring is disclosed having structure for engaging the retaining ring to transfer the wafer and the retaining ring from one processing station to another to perform a plurality of processing steps on one or both surfaces of the wafer without direct handling of the wafer. The retaining ring is also provided with structure for engaging the end edges of the wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer equally exposed for processing. The retaining ring has an inner diameter sufficiently large with respect to the outer diameter of the wafer so as to not interfere with processing by shadowing either side of the wafer.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for handling semiconductors wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which permits processing of both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer which comprises: a) a retaining ring having engagement means thereon to permit said retaining ring to be engaged to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring from one processing station to another to perform one or more processing steps on one or more surfaces of said wafer; b) clip means carried by said retaining ring for yieldably engaging the end edges of said wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of said wafer exposed for processing; c) tip means on said clip means having a groove therein to engage only the end edges of said wafer; d) means for activating said clip means to yieldably engage the end edges of said wafer after insertion of said wafer into said retaining ring; and e) an inner diameter on said retaining ring sufficiently larger than the outer diameter of said wafer to permit equal processing of both sides of said wafer without interference by shadowing from said retaining ring. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein means are further provided for radially orienting a flat portion on said end edges on said wafer with respect to said engagement means on said retaining ring prior to inserting said wafer into said retaining ring. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said groove on said tip means has a curvature therein substantially the same as the radius of said wafer to distribute the force exerted by said clip means against said wafer. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tip means is constructed of a material selected from the class consisting of a metal and a ceramic. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said tip means is a ceramic material. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein both said retaining ring and said clip means, including said tip means thereon comprise electrically conductive materials to permit grounding said wafer by contacting said retaining ring to ground it. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for activating said clip means comprise means for moving said clip means and said tip means thereon into and out of engagement with the end edges of said wafer in a direction parallel to the plane of said wafer. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said means for activating said clips means further comprise biasing means which urge said clip means and said tip means thereon toward said wafer in a direction parallel to the plane of said wafer to engage the end edges of said wafer. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 which further includes storage means for removably storing a plurality of said retaining rings in a vertical stack. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein means are provided in said storage means for radially orienting said wafer prior to said engagement of said wafer by one of said retaining rings. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said means for radially orienting said wafer includes a rotatable platform concentrically mounted in said storage means to receive said wafer and rotate it prior to engagement by one of said retaining rings. 12. A method of handling semiconductors wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which permits moving said wafer from one processing station to another without direct handling of said wafer and which also permits equal processing of both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer which comprises: a) inserting said wafer into a retaining ring having an inner diameter sufficiently larger than the outer diameter of said wafer to permit processing of both sides of said wafer without shadowing by said retaining ring; b) engaging the end edges of said wafer with yieldable means carried by said retaining ring including tip means having a groove therein to engage only the end edges of said wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of said wafer equally exposed for processing; and c) contacting said retaining ring with remote means to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring from one processing station to another to perform a plurality of processing steps on one or more surfaces of said wafer. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said step of engaging the end edges of said wafer further comprises moving said tip means into and out of engagement with the end edges of said wafer in a direction parallel to the plane of said wafer. 14. The process of claim 13 including the further step of releasing said wafer from said retaining ring upon completion of said processing steps. 15. The process of claim 13 including the further step of activating said yieldable means in said retaining ring to yieldably engage the end edges of said wafer after insertion of said wafer into said retaining ring. 16. The process of claim 13 including the further step of rotating said wafer to radially orient a flat portion on the end edge of said wafer with respect to one or more fixed points on said retaining ring prior to inserting said wafer into said retaining ring. 17. The process of claim 16 wherein said step of contacting said retaining ring to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring from one processing station to another further comprises engaging said one or more fixed points on said ring to which a flat side portion of said wafer is radially oriented. 18. Apparatus for handling semiconductors wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which permits processing of both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer which comprises: a) a retaining ring having engagement means thereon to permit said retaining ring to be engaged to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring from one processing station to another to perform one or more processing steps on one or more surfaces of said wafer; b) means on said retaining ring for engaging the end edges of said wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of said wafer exposed for processing; c) an inner diameter on said retaining means sufficiently larger than the outer diameter of said wafer to permit equal processing of both sides of said wafer without interference by shadowing from said retaining ring; (d) storage means for removably storing a plurality of said retaining means in a vertical stack; (e) a rotatable platform concentrically mounted within said storage means to receive said wafer and rotate it to radially orient said wafer prior to insertion of said wafer into said retaining ring and engagement of said wafer by said retaining ring; and (f) means connected to said platform for lowering said wafer into a position for engagement with a retaining ring stored in said vertical stack in said storage means. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said engagement means on said retaining ring which permit said wafer and said retaining ring to be engaged for transferring said retaining ring and said wafer from one processing station to another further comprises engagement means positioned at a fixed point on said ring to which a flat side portion of said wafer is radially oriented. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said apparatus further comprises remote means for engaging said engagement means on said retaining ring to permit said retaining ring and said wafer therein to be moved without contacting said wafer. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said storage means is further provided with means to lower said storage means with respect to said wafer once said wafer has been loaded into said retaining ring in said stack and said engagement means on said retaining ring have been engaged by said remote means to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring from one processing station to another. 22. Apparatus for handling semiconductors wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which permits processing of both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer which comprises: a) a retaining ring having engagement means located at a particular position thereon to permit said retaining ring to be engaged to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring from one processing station to another to perform one or more processing steps on one or more surfaces of said wafer; b) clip means carried by said retaining ring for yieldably engaging the end edges of said wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of said wafer exposed for processing; c) tip means on said clip means having a groove therein to engage only the end edges of said wafer; d) means for activating said clip means to yieldably engage the end edges of said wafer after insertion of said wafer into said retaining ring; and e) an inner diameter on said retaining ring sufficiently larger than the outer diameter of said wafer to permit equal processing of both sides of said wafer without interference by shadowing from said retaining ring. 23. Apparatus for handling semiconductors wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which leaves both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer completely exposed for processing which comprises: a) a retaining ring having engagement means thereon to permit said retaining ring to be engaged to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring from one processing station to another to perform one or more processing steps on one or more surfaces of said wafer; b) clip means carried by said retaining ring for yieldably engaging the end edges of said wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of said wafer exposed for processing; c) tip means on said clip means having a groove therein to engage only the end edges of said wafer; d) means for activating said clip means to yieldably engage the end edges of said wafer after insertion of said wafer into said retaining ring; and e) an inner diameter on said retaining ring sufficiently larger than the outer diameter of said wafer to leave both surfaces of said wafer completely open for processing without interference by shadowing from said retaining ring. 24. Apparatus for handling semiconductors wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which permits processing of both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer which comprises: a) a retaining ring having engagement means thereon to permit said retaining ring to be engaged to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring in and out of one processing station to perform one or more processing steps on one or more surfaces of said wafer; b) clip means carried by said retaining ring for yieldably engaging the end edges of said wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of said wafer exposed for processing; c) tip means on said clip means having a groove therein to engage only the end edges of said wafer; d) means for activating said clip means to yieldably engage the end edges of said wafer after insertion of said wafer into said retaining ring; and e) an inner diameter on said retaining ring sufficiently larger than the outer diameter of said wafer to permit equal processing of both surfaces of said wafer without interference by shadowing from said retaining ring. 25. Apparatus for handling semiconductors wafers used for the production of integrated circuit structures which leaves both the top and bottom surfaces of the wafer completely exposed for processing which comprises: a) a retaining ring having engagement means thereon to permit said retaining ring to be engaged to transfer said wafer and said retaining ring in and out of one processing station to perform one or more processing steps on one or more surfaces of said wafer; b) clip means carried by said retaining ring for yieldably engaging the end edges of said wafer leaving both the top and bottom surfaces of said wafer exposed for processing; c) tip means on said clip means having a groove therein to engage only the end edges of said wafer; d) means for activating said clip means to yieldably engage the end edges of said wafer after insertion of said wafer into said retaining ring; and e) an inner diameter on said retaining ring sufficiently larger than the outer diameter of said wafer to leave both surfaces of said wafer completely open for processing without interference by shadowing from said retaining ring. 26. The apparatus of claim 2 including a rotatable platform to receive said wafer and rotate it prior to engagement by said retaining ring. 