The device for spraying a coating on the internal faces of a vessel (2) for the transfer of molten metal such as a tundish comprises a spraying lance (3) secured to a carriage (4). The carriage (4) is capable of displacement in translational motion on a guide (6; 106) which extends in a first longitudinal or transverse direction (D; L) of the vessel (2) and which is in turn capable of translational motion on guiding means (7; 107) extending in a second direction (L; D) which is transverse with respect to direction (D; L) aforesaid. These guiding means (7; 107) are themselves mounted on a suppport (8, 12) which is capable of translational motion in the longitudinal direction (D).
Claims We claim: 1. Device for spraying a coating onto internal faces of a transfer vessel (2) for transfer of molten metal, comprising a spraying lance (3) secured vertically to a carriage (4) displaceable in a horizontal plane located above a said transfer vessel, characterized in that the carriage (4) is capable of displacement in translational motion on a guide (6; 106) extending in a first longitudinal or transverse direction (D; L) of a said transfer vessel (2), that said guide (6; 106) is in turn capable of displacement in translational motion on guiding means (7; 107) extending in a second direction (L; D) aforesaid, that said guiding means (7; 107) are themselves mounted on a support (8, 12) capable of displacement in translational motion in the longitudinal direction (D) of the vessel and that means (9) are provided for controlling the various movements of the spraying lance (3) in such a manner as to maintain a spraying head (3a) of said lance at a substantially constant distance from lateral faces (2a, 2b) or from a bottom face (2c) of a said transfer vessel. 2. Device in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that the spraying lance (3) is capable of displacement in rotation about and in translational motion along a vertical axis. 3. Device in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that the guide (6) extends in the longitudinal direction (D) of a said transfer vessel and is a beam whose length is less than that of the vessel (2). 4. Device in accordance with claim 3, characterized in that the opposite ends (6a, 6b) of the beam (6) are movably mounted on two cross-members (8) extending at right angles to the longitudinal direction (D) of a said transfer vessel. 5. Device in accordance with claim 4, characterized in that the opposite ends of the cross-members (8) are movably mounted on guide rails (11) extending respectively on each side of and parallel to two longitudinal lateral walls (2a) of a said transfer vessel. 6. Device in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that the support (8, 12) of the device (1) is capable of displacement in translational motion on further guiding means (11) which extend parallel to the longitudinal direction (D) of a plurality of said transfer vessels (2, 2A, 2B, 2C) placed in a row. 7. Device in accordance with claim 6, characterized in that said further guiding means (11) of the support (8, 12) extend beyond the end of a said transfer vessel located at the end of a row of said transfer vessels so as to constitute a parking area (11a) of the device. 8. Device in accordance with claim 1, characterized in that the means (9) for controlling the various movements comprise motors which are associated with a microcomputer programmed for controlling said motors in accordance with a predetermined operating cycle, or which are manually remote-controlled by an operator. 9. Method for the spraying of a coating onto internal faces of a transfer vessel (2) for the transfer of molten metal from a spraying device comprising a spraying lance (3) having a spray head (3a), said lance (3) being carried by a carriage (4) on a support (8, 12), characterized by the following steps: a) the support (8, 12) of the device is moved so as to place the support in position above a said vessel (2), b) a bottom face (2c) of a said vessel (2) is coated by spraying parallel coating strips (b1, b2) while displacing the carriage (4) in the longitudinal direction (D) of the vessel and in a horizontal direction perpendicular to said longitudinal direction in order to pass from one strip to another while at the same time maintaining said head (3a) of the spraying lance (3) at a constant distance from said bottom face (2c), c) at least one longitudinal lateral face (2a) and at least one transverse lateral face (2b) of a said vessel (2) are coated by spraying parallel coating strips (b3) while displacing the carriage (4) in the longitudinal direction (D) or transverse direction (L) of the vessel (2) and displacing said head (3a) in pivotal motion about a vertical axis through an angle of 90.degree. at the end of a longitudinal strip in order to spray a strip on a transverse lateral face (2b) and, in order to pass from one strip to another, said head (3a) is displaced vertically and the carriage (4) is displaced transversely or longitudinally in order to maintain a substantially constant distance (d) between said head (3a) of the lance (3) and a lateral face (2a, 2b) of the vessel, d) steps b) and c) can be reversed. 10. Method in accordance with claim 9, characterized in that the vessel (2) is first coated over a half-width of a half-length of this latter, whereupon the remainder of the half-length is coated by displacement of the carriage (4) in the transverse direction whilst the support (8, 12) remains stationary and the remaining half-length of the vessel is coated after displacement of the support in the longitudinal direction (D). 11. A method for spraying a coating onto internal faces of a transfer vessel (2) for the transfer of molten metal, wherein a spraying lance (3) is secured vertically to a carriage (4) and said carriage is displaced in a horizontal plane located above a said transfer vessel, characterized in that the carriage (4) is displaced in translational motion on a guide (6; 106) extending in a first longitudinal or transverse direction (D; L) of a said transfer vessel (2), that said guide (6; 106) is displaced in translation motion on guiding means (7; 107) extending in a second horizontal direction (L; D) transverse with respect to the first-mentioned direction (D; L), that said guiding means (7; 107) are themselves mounted on a support (8, 12) which is displaceable in translational motion in the longitudinal direction (D) of a said vessel and that the various movements of the spraying lance (3) are controlled in such a manner as to maintain the spraying head (3a) of said lance at a substantially constant distance from lateral faces (2a, 2b) or from a bottom face (2c) of the transfer vessel. 