An engineered video inspection lighting system includes a three-dimensional array of solid-state light emitting diodes focused to an inspection area. A single high-current, low-duration pulse is applied to selected elements of the array. Light thus generated is passed through a diffuser and to a specimen. Light reflected from the specimen is received by a lens of a video camera disposed in an interior of the three-dimensional array. Data thus obtained is used to determine acceptability of the specimen in accordance with preselected standards.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An engineered lighting video inspection apparatus comprising: a plurality of directional light generating elements; mounting means for securing each light generating element of the plurality into a three-dimensional lighting array, the mounting means defining an interior portion and an exterior portion, wherein each of the light generating elements is secured to the interior portion such that it is directed to an associated lighting area; the mounting means defining an aperture portion; video camera means for generating image data from light exposed the lens extending therefrom; and means for securing the lens in the interior portion of the three-dimensional lighting array such that it extends through the aperture portion; and means for concurrently supplying a current pulse of a selected value to each of selected light generating elements of the array to provide illumination to the associated lighting area for illumination of an associated specimen. 2. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: data processor means for receiving image from the video camera means resultant from illumination of the associated lighting area by application of the single current pulse to the portion of light generating elements of the array; the data processor means including comparison means for comparing the image data to data representative of a range of acceptable image data; and means for determining acceptability of the associated specimen in accordance with an output of the comparison means. 3. The engineered video inspection system of claim 2 further comprising means for selectively altering light generating elements forming the selected light generating elements of the array to which the current pulse is applied. 4. The engineered lighting video inspection system of claim 2 further comprising; arcuate diffuser means for selectively homogenizing light transmitted to the associated lighting area from the light generating elements, the diffuser means defining a second aperture portion; and means for securing the diffuser means between the three-dimensional lighting array and the associated lighting area such that the lens extends at least to the second aperture portion. 5. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 4 wherein the image data generated by the video camera means includes analog data representative of an intensity value of each pixel of two dimensional array thereof, and wherein the apparatus further comprises: the data processor means including a first signal processor having a first selected signal gain level, and a second signal processor having a second selected signal gain level different from the first selected signal gain level; means for communicating the image data to the first signal processor whereby first processed image data is formed therefrom; means for communicating the image data to the second signal processor whereby second processed image data is formed therefrom; the comparison means including first correlation means for correlating the first processed image data to data representative of a range of acceptable image data of a first portion of the associated specimen; and the comparison means including second correlation means for correlating the second processed image data to data representative of acceptable image data of a second portion of the associated specimen uniquely defined from the first portion thereof. 6. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first and second comparing means include first and second processor elements, respectively, and wherein the data processor means further includes means for simultaneously enabling the first and second processor elements. 7. The engineered lighting video inspection system of claim 6 wherein the first signal processor includes a first analog-to-digital convertor and wherein the second signal processor includes a second analog-to-digital convertor, whereby the first and second processed signals include first and second digitized signals, respectively. 8. An engineered lighting video inspection apparatus comprising: lighting means for supplying a single high intensity, short duration light pulse to an associated specimen; video camera means, including a lens portion, for generating image data from received light of the light pulse into the lens portion after reflection thereof off the associated specimen; first and second signal processor means having uniquely defined first and second gain levels, respectively; means for communicating at least a portion of the image data to the first and second signal processors, whereby first and second processed signals are formed therefrom, respectively, from received image data; first and second data processing means for comparing received signal data with data representative of acceptable specimens to determine acceptability thereof; and means for communicating the first and second processed signals to the first and second data processors, respectively. 9. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 8 further comprising means for simultaneously performing comparisons with the first and second data processors. 10. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 9 wherein the video camera means includes means for generating the image data as data representative of a two dimensional array of pixels, each pixel having gray-scale level representative of an intensity of reflected light associated therewith. 11. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 10 wherein: the first and second signal processor means each include an analog-to-digital convertor, whereby the first and second processed signals each include a digitized representation of an image of the associated specimen; the first and second data processors each include means for comparing each of the first processed signals with digitized data representative of acceptable specimens. 12. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 11 wherein the lighting means includes: a plurality of directional electronic light generating element; mounting means for securing each element of the plurality into a three-dimensional lighting array, the mounting means defining an interior portion and an exterior portion, wherein each of the light generating elements is secured to the interior portion such that is generally directed to the associated specimen; the mounting means defining an aperture portion. 13. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 12 further comprising means for securing the lens such that it extends generally to the aperture portion from the exterior portion. 14. The engineered lighting video inspection apparatus of claim 12 further comprising means for securing the lens such that it extends through the aperture portion into the interior portion defined by the mounting means. 15. An engineered lighting video inspection apparatus comprising: a lighting array including, a plurality of directed light generating elements; mounting means for securing each element of the plurality into a three-dimensional lighting array, the mounting means defining an interior portion and an exterior portion, wherein each of the lighting elements is secured to the interior portion such that it is directed to an associated lighting area, and the mounting means defining an aperture portion; video camera means including a lens portion; means for securing the video camera means in relation to the lighting array such that the lens portion extends through the aperture portion, terminating in the interior portion; means for conveying a series of associated specimens to the associated lighting area; means for determining a presence of each of the series of associated specimens within the lighting area; means for selectively supplying current to the plurality of lighting elements, whereby an associated specimen is illuminated by light resultant therefrom; means for communicating image data generated by the video camera means from light reflected from an illuminated associated specimen into the lens portion thereof; means for communicating the image data to first and second analog-to-digital conversion means, each having uniquely defined gain levels, whereby first and second digitized image data portions are formed; first comparing means for comparing the first digitized image data portion to data representative of acceptability of a specimen corresponding to digitized data processed at a first gain level; second comparing means for comparing the second digitized image data portion to data representative of acceptability of a specimen corresponding to digitized data processed at a second gain level. 16. The engineered lighting video inspection system of claim 15 wherein each of the first and second comparing means included independent data processors. 17. The engineered lighting video inspection system of claim 16 further comprising means for determining acceptability of each of the series of associated specimens in accordance with an output of at least one of the first and second comparing means. 18. The engineered video inspection system of claim 2 further comprising means for selectively altering light generating elements forming the selected light generating elements of the array to which the current pulse is applied. 