To automate the roughening of the peripheral surface of a shoe upper in the region to be soled, the application of adhesive along such surface and a final deburring operation, prior to injection molding the last supported shoe upper in the region of lateral side mold elements is measured at the peripheral curvature to determine a curved line of spacial coordinates and angles of curvature starting at a preselected null point, and the values are stored. Another last supported shoe upper is moved by a rotary turntable to be scanned at selected points along its periphery for comparing the selected points to the spacial coordinates and angles of curvature. Any deviation therefrom is adapted to a second preselected null point, after which the shoe upper is guided by a computer controlled robotic device along the curved line starting from the second null point.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for molding soles onto last supported shoe uppers, comprising the steps of: providing a shoe molding apparatus at each of a plurality of equally spaced apart shoe molding stations on a circular turntable installation, each said apparatus comprising a last supported shoe upper, a movable bottom stamp, and a mold cavity delimited by the bottom stamp and a pair of opposing lateral side mold elements closed against the periphery of the shoe upper; measuring, at one of said stations, the peripheral curvature of a first shoe upper having a predetermined shape by determining and storing a curved line of spatial coordinates and angles of curvature starting at a first preselected null point at the first shoe upper in the region of the lateral side mold elements; incrementally rotating the turntable for positioning another last supported shoe upper, having a different shape, at said one station; scanning, at said one station, selected points at the periphery of the other shoe upper, in the region of the side mold elements, for comparing the selected points to the stored spatial coordinates and angles of curvature and adapting any deviation therefrom to a second preselected null point; processing the shoe upper by guiding a tool along the curved line starting at the second null point, and injection molding low viscosity material into the mold cavity for molding a sole on to the shoe upper. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein the processing includes roughening the shoe upper periphery prior to the injection molding. 3. The process according to claim 1, wherein the processing includes applying adhesive along the shoe upper periphery prior to the injection molding. 4. The process according to claim 1, wherein the processing includes deburring the molded sole along the shoe upper periphery after the injection molding. 5. The process according to claim 2, wherein the processing further includes suctioning off removed roughened particles. 6. The process according to claim 4, wherein the processing further includes suctioning off removed deburred particles. 7. The process according to claim 1, further comprising the step of multiplying by fixed preselected variables the special coordinates and angles of curvature obtaining by the measuring step for determining peripheral shoe upper measurements of a shoe upper having said predetermined shape but of a different size. 8. The process according to claim 1, wherein the processing includes a computer-controlled robot supporting the tool. 9. A system for molding soles on to last supported shoe uppers, comprising a circular turntable installation supporting a shoe molding apparatus at each of a plurality of equally spaced apart shoe molding stations, each said apparatus comprising a last supported shoe upper, a movable bottom stamp, and a mold cavity delimited by the bottom stamp and a pair of opposing lateral side mold elements closed against the periphery of the shoe upper, means at one of said stations for measuring the peripheral curvature of a shoe upper having a predetermined shape to determine a curved line of values of spatial coordinates and tangential angles starting at a first preselected null point at the shoe upper in the region of the lateral side mold elements, means for registering said values means for scanning selected points on another last supported shoe upper and comparing these points to the registered values, a computer-controlled robotic processing tool connected to said registering means for receiving said values for being guided along the curved line, and means for injecting low viscosity material into the mold cavity for molding a sole onto the shoe upper. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein said tool comprises an element for roughening the shoe upper periphery preparatory to injection molding. 11. The system according to claim 9, wherein said tool comprises a device for applying adhesive along the shoe upper periphery preparatory to injection molding. 12. The system according to claim 9, wherein said tool comprises an element for deburring the molded sole along the shoe upper after the sole is molded onto the shoe upper. 13. The system according to claim 10, wherein said tool further comprises means for suctioning off removed roughened particles. 14. The system according to claim 12, wherein said tool further comprises means for suctioning off removed deburred particles. 