A method and apparatus for controlling the milling of an ablatable material and the like from substrate is disclosed. Embodiments for controlling the milling of ablatable materials and the like by pulses of high intensity radiant energy are described. The control process is accomplished by generating an electronic signal representative of the substrate surface topology through use of a structured light or other three dimensional mapping system and feeding the signal to a system control unit. By applying pre-programmed criteria regarding the final desired surface to the generated electronic signal, an electronic reference signal indicative of the dimensional coordinates of the final desired surface may be generated. An ablatable coating is then applied to a height sufficiently above the final desired surface to permit a milling off of the excess coating to produce the desired final surface topology. In the milling process the mapping system is used as a real-time feedback control mechanism for directing a laser. By scanning the surface ahead of the laser, the mapping system generates a new electronic signal representative of the coated surface topology, and this signal is compared to the desired-topology reference signal. At each spot where the comparison indicates the coated surface is above the final desired surface, the controller will order the laser to fire upon that spot, and this is reiterated until the surface features fall within the prescribed limits.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for selective and controlled removal of ablatable material from a surface on a substrate in order to achieve a desired surface contour, comprising the steps of: (a) premapping a given area of the substrate and generating a premap electronic signal representative of the three dimensional topography of the given area, (b) electronically generating and storing a reference signal representative of a desired topography of said given area, (c) applying a coating of an ablatable material on the given area to a height sufficient to permit a milling off of excess coating until the desired surface topography is reached, (d) while scanning said given area, generating a coated surface electronic signal representative of the three dimensional topography of the coated surface for each of a series of scan locations in the given scan area, (e) electronically comparing the coated surface electronic signal with the stored reference signal and, upon a comparison indicating the surface height of the coating is above the desired finished surface height for a given scan location as represented by the reference signal, impinging a high intensity beam of radiant energy on the coating at that scan location for a given period of time to achieve a milling of the surface; and (f) after said given period of time, comparing another coated surface electronic signal representing the topography of the newly milled surface and again impinging the beam of radiant energy on the given scan location for the given period of time only upon a comparison indicating the surface height of the coating is above the desired surface height for that location, and (g) repeating step f in repeated scans of the given area, until the electronic comparison indicates the mapped surface substantially matches the desired surface characteristics as represented by the stored reference signal. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said reference signal is generated by applying preselected criteria regarding desired surface characteristics to said electronic signal representative of the three dimensional topography of said given area. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said electronic signal representative of the 3D topography of said surfaces is generated by a structured light system. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said structured light system comprises: (a) a low powered laser beam scanning system that provides a line of laser light across the surface to be mapped; and (b) a solid state camera at an angle and location fixed relative to the line of light such that the line of light reflected from the surface intersects the raster scan of said camera. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said electronic signal representative of the 3D topography of said surfaces is generated by a laser backscatter mapping system. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said high intensity beam is further controlled by a fine pointing and control subsystem. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the fine pointing and control subsystem comprises a structured light pattern generated from a low-powered rotating laser beam forming a cone at the surface when the system is at the correct focal distance. 8. A method for selective and controlled removal of ablatable material from a surface in order to achieve a desired surface contour, comprising: providing a laser source and positioning a laser beam delivery means adjacent to the surface with the delivery means including scanning means for scanning a scan area of the surface in accordance with a selected scanning pattern; providing, in association with the laser beam delivery means, a surface mapping system for determining the actual contour of the surface at each of a series of sequential scan locations corresponding generally with the scanning pattern for the laser beam; providing a computer means with computer-stored information relating to a desired final surface contour for the surface, after milling by the laser; scanning both the laser beam and the surface mapping system over the scan area repeatedly, and, for each scan location, flagging that location in a computer system means for either "burn" or "no burn", as an instruction to the laser beam delivery means to either fire or not fire the laser at that scan location when the laser beam next reaches that location; firing the laser beam in accordance with such instructions and repeating this process through successive scans of the scan area, until the desired surface profile has substantially been achieved at each scan location in the scan area; and wherein the ablatable material is coated over a substrate which is not to be milled, and the method further including premapping the substrate surface in the scan area prior to coating the substrate with the ablatable material, to determine the surface contour in the scan area, storing data representing the substrate surface contour in the computer means, applying the coating of ablatable material to a sufficient thickness to permit a milling off of excess coating to achieve the desired final surface contour, and applying preselected, prestored criteria relating to permissible surface slopes to the stored data to compute said stored information representing the desired final surface contour. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the mapping system is a laser backscatter mapping system. 10. A method for selective and controlled removal of ablatable material from a surface in order to achieve a desired surface contour, comprising: providing a laser source and positioning a laser beam delivery means adjacent to the surface with the delivery means including scanning means for scanning a scan area of the surface in accordance with a selected scanning pattern; providing, in association with the laser beam delivery means, a surface mapping system for determining the actual contour of the surface at each of a series of sequential scan locations corresponding generally with the scanning pattern for the laser beam; providing a computer means with computer-stored information relating to a desired final surface contour for the surface, after milling by the laser; scanning both the laser beam and the surface mapping system over the scan area repeatedly, and, for each scan location, flagging that location in a computer means for either "burn" or "no burn", as an instruction to the laser beam delivery means to either fire or not fire the laser at that scan location when the laser beam next reaches that location; firing the laser beam in accordance with such instructions and repeating this process through successive scans of the scan area, until the desired surface profile has substantially been achieved at each scan location in the scan area; and wherein the ablatable material is coated over a substrate which is not to be milled, and the method further including premapping the substrate with said mapping system prior to flagging "burn" and "no burn" on the scan locations to determine substrate surface contour, and computing said stored information representing desired final surface contour by applying preselected, prestored criteria relating to permissible surface slopes to information on the substrate profile determined by said premapping, to generate said stored information representing desired final surface contour. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the premapping step includes using an ultrasonic mapping system which will determine both the contour of the ablatable material's surface and the substrate, to produce said information on the substrate profile. 12. Apparatus for selective and controlled removal of ablatable material from a surface coated on a substrate in order to achieve a desired surface profile, comprising: (a) means for premapping a scan area of the substrate and generating a first electronic signal representative of the three dimensional topography of the substrate, (b) means for electronically generating a second, reference electronic signal representing a desired final surface profile topography, in accordance with preselected criteria relating to permissible final surface slope and in accordance with the substrate topography as represented by the first electronic signal, (c) means for electronically storing the second reference signal, (d) means for scanning the surface of the ablatable material and for generating and storing a third electronic signal representative of the three dimensional topography of the coated ablatable material surface at each of a series of scan locations within the scan area, (e) means for electronically comparing the third electronic signal with the second, reference electronic signal for each scan location within the scan area, (f) means for impinging a high intensity beam of radiant energy, for a given period of time, on each scan location when the comparison of the third and second signals has indicated that the surface height of the coating is above the desired finished surface for that location as represented by the second, reference electronic signal, and (g) means for repeatedly scanning the scan area and, following the comparison of step e) for a scan location, for either impinging the high intensity beam or not impinging the beam at that scan location, based on the comparison, until the surface of each scan location substantially meets the height of the desired final surface topography for that location as represented by the electronic signal. 13. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said means for impinging a high intensity, beam of radiant energy on said area for a given period of time comprises a CO.sub.2 laser providing a pulse of radiant energy at a wavelength of about 10.6 microns and a pulse length of about twenty microseconds. 14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein said means for generating the first electronic signal representative of the topography of the substrate comprises a structured light mapping system. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein the means for generating the first electronic signal comprises a laser backscatter system. 16. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, further comprising a rastering means for rastering said beam over a raster scan pattern. 17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 16, wherein said rastering means shifts said rastering pattern slightly for subsequent passes of the beam. 