Changes in the flow characteristics of a fluid being dispensed from a nozzle under then control of a metering valve are compensated for in order to maintain the volume of fluid dispensed over a predetermined time interval substantially equal to a selected setpoint. The volume of fluid delivered to the metering valve during a predetermined interval is measured and a correction factor based on the difference between the measured volume and the setpoint is calculated. The correction factor is used to generate a driving signal from which a control signal applied to the metering valve is generated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of compensating for changes in the flow characteristics of a fluid being dispensed from a nozzle under the control of a metering valve in order to maintain the volume of fluid dispensed over a predetermined time interval at a desired setpoint, said method comprising the steps of: (a) measuring the volume of fluid delivered to the metering valve during at least one said interval; (b) calculating a correction factor correlated to the difference between said measured volume and said setpoint, (c) multiplying a signal by said factor to generate a driving signal, and (d) controlling said valve in accordance with at least said driving signal to maintain the volume of fluid dispensed at said desired setpoint. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said controlling step includes the step of applying a signal correlated to said driving signal to a closed-loop feedback system coupled to said metering valve. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said correction factor comprises a quotient whose dividend is said setpoint and whose divisor is said measured volume of fluid. 4. A method for compensating for changes in the flow characteristics of a fluid being dispensed from a nozzle, said method comprising the steps of: (a) delivering the fluid under pressure to a metering valve located upstream of the nozzle, said metering valve being operable to modulate the flow of fluid to the nozzle in response to a control signal; (b) measuring the volume of fluid delivered to said metering valve over an interval of time and generating a corresponding measurement signal, and (c) adjusting the control signal in accordance with the difference between said measurement signal and a setpoint representing a desired volume of fluid to be dispensed during said interval so that said valve maintains the volume of fluid dispensed at said setpoint. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said adjusting step comprises the steps of: calculating a correction factor correlated to the difference between said measurement signal and said setpoint; multiplying a driving signal by said correction factor, and generating said control signal from at least said driving signal. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said generating step comprises the step of algebraically combining the difference between said driving signal with a signal correlated to the flow rate of the fluid dispensed from the nozzle. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of: generating said driving signal in accordance with at least a toolspeed signal of a robot for effecting relative movement between the nozzle and a workpiece. 8. The step of claim 7 wherein said signal correlated to the flow rate of the fluid dispensed from the nozzle comprises a signal representing the pressure drop across said nozzle. 9. The method of claim 4 wherein said interval is a job cycle. 10. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: locating said valve and said nozzle in sufficiently close proximity to one another that very little fluid pressure drop occurs between said valve and said nozzle; sensing, at a location between said valve and said nozzle, a parameter correlated to the rate of flow of the fluid discharged from the nozzle and generating a corresponding flow rate signal, and generating said control signal from at least said flow rate signal and a driving signal. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the steps of: calculating a correction factor correlated to the difference between said measurement signal and said setpoint; multiplying a driving signal by said correction factor, and generating said control signal from at least said driving signal. 