A system and method for exchanging tools and end effectors on a robot permits exchange during a programmed task. The exchange mechanism is located off the robot, thus reducing the mass of the robot arm and permitting smaller robots to perform designated tasks. A simple spring/collet mechanism mounted on the robot is used which permits the engagement and disengagement of the tool or end effector without the need for a rotational orientation of the tool to the end effector/collet interface. As the tool changing system is not located on the robot arm no umbilical cords are located on robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system having automatic exchange of tools on a robot structure, said exchange being effected by a mechanism apart from said robot structure thereby freeing said robot of the exchange structure and reducing robot mass, comprising: a tool gripper assembly extending from said robot structure; a tool changing device for actuating said tool gripper and placing a tool in said tool gripper and extracting it therefrom, wherein said tool changing device is separate from said robot structure and is located within the reach of said robot; a pneumatic system connected to operate and power said tool changing device and to provide signals of the operation thereof; an operator control switch connected to operate said pneumatic system; and a robot controller unit connected to receive signals from said pneumatic system and connected to said robot structure to control the operation thereof. 2. The robot system of claim 1 wherein said tool gripper assembly includes a spring biased collet structure. 3. The robot system of claim 2 wherein said collet structure includes a shaft, a collet jaw mechanism mounted on said shaft, a pair of retaining washers positioned on said shaft adjacent said collet jaws, and a disk spring structure positioned between said retaining washers forcing one of said washers to close said collet jaws. 4. The robot system of claim 1 wherein said tool changing device includes: at least one tool gripper assembly engagement device, said device causing said tool gripper to disengage a tool when said engagement device is in contact therewith; a tool holding device positioned adjacent said engagement device, said holding device being capable of holding a tool to be gripped or to be released from said tool gripper assembly; pneumatic operation means connected to said pneumatic system for selectively operating said engagement device and said tool holding device under the control of said pneumatic system; and a plurality of sensor means for sensing the location and operation of said tool gripper assembly, said engagement device and said tool holding device, said sensor means being positioned adjacent said engagement device and said tool holding device. 5. The robot system of claim 4 wherein tool gripper assembly includes a collet-type jawed gripper device, having a spring biasing said jaws to a closed position. 6. The robot system of claim 5 wherein said engagement device includes a left hand and a right hand gripper bars, each said gripper bar containing an elongate slot, said slot being of a size and shape to engage said biasing spring of said tool gripper assembly. 7. The robot system of claim 6 wherein said tool holding device includes an elongate carrage bar having a pair of elongate slots, one each adjacent one of said gripper bar slots. 8. The robot system of claim 7 wherein said tool holding device also includes a switch actuator bar in alignment with and adjacent to said carriage bar and said gripper bar. 9. The robot system of claim 8 wherein said plural sensor means include a plurality of switches attached to and operatable to sense the position of said carriage bar, said gripper bar and said collet structure is within said carriage bar and within said gripper bar slot. 10. A system for automatic exchange of end effectors on a robot, comprising: a robot having located thereon a collet mechanism having disk springs to close said collet mechanism to secure an end effector to thereto; an end effector changing device adjacent to but separate and distinct from said robot and having means to actuate said collet mechanism; a pneumatic system unit connected to pneumatically operate said end effector changing device; and a robot controller having input/output capabilities and being electrically connected to operate said robot, said robot controller being connected to said pneumatic system unit. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said collet mechanism includes a hollow shaft, said hollow shaft being connected to said pneumatic system unit. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said pneumatic system unit monitors the presence of an end effector on said collet mechanism through said hollow shaft connection. 