A tactile micro-gripper is disclosed having a combined lever and spring linkage. The lever flexes at predetermined points and is coupled to the spring and to an actuator. The spring is of a parallelogram type, so that the ends remain parallel to one another when the spring is bent. When the actuator causes the lever to move transversely, the end of the spring is caused to move laterally in a parallel manner. A pair of lever and spring linkages are arranged together so that they cooperatively act together to manipulate a pair of fingers, which are attached to the ends of the springs, to grip and release objects. Tactile sensing is accomplished by means of a cantilever beam and an optical detection system disposed in the tip of the fingers.
Claims I claim: 1. A micro-gripper assembly comprising: a first parallelogram spring mechanism having a free end and having an opposing fixed end coupled to a support frame, the free end transcribing an arc about an axis of rotation and remaining generally parallel to the fixed end; a first flexural lever coupled to the parallelogram spring mechanism near said free end, the flexural lever having a substantially fixed flex point generally coinciding with said axis of rotation, and having an end coupled to said support frame; actuator means coupled to the lever for causing said flexural lever to bend at the substantially fixed flex point, whereby said free end of the parallelogram spring mechanism follows the motion of said flexural lever while remaining generally parallel to the fixed end. 2. The micro-gripper of claim 1 further comprising a finger mount located at said free end. 3. The micro-gripper of claim 2 further comprising a deformable finger indicative of a force applied to the finger, the deformable finger being coupled to said finger mount. 4. The micro-gripper of claim 3 further comprising a stationary support arranged such that said free end and said stationary support provide a gripping and releasing action. 5. The micro-gripper of claim 1 wherein said actuator means comprises a bellows device. 6. A micro-gripper assembly comprising: a support frame; actuator means mounted to the support frame for causing motion relative to the support frame; a first pair of co-planar flexural levers with each lever having a plurality of flex points with one flex point being a fulcrum substantially fixed relative to the support frame, each lever being mounted to the support frame and coupled to the actuator means such that the levers cooperatively bend at respective fulcrums in opposite directions when acted upon by the actuator means; a first pair of co-planar parallelogram springs with each spring having a fixed end mounted to the support frame and having a free end opposite the fixed end, the free end transcribing an arc about an axis of rotation, each parallelogram spring being coupled near the free end to one of the levers, and being arranged and linked together such that the axis of rotation of the free end generally corresponds to the fixed fulcrum of the lever, each lever and spring linkage acting cooperatively to provide parallel motion of the free ends; and means for mounting a finger to the free end of each spring. 7. The micro-gripper of claim 6 further comprising a second pair of co-planar parallelogram springs arranged parallel to and coinciding with said first pair of springs, said first pair of levers being disposed between said first and second pair of springs. 8. The micro-gripper of claim 7 further comprising a second pair of co-planar levers arranged parallel to and coinciding with said first pair of levers, said first pair of springs being disposed between said first and second pair of levers. 9. The micro-gripper of claim 6 further comprising a deformable finger indicative of a force applied to the finger, the deformable finger being coupled to said finger mount. 10. The micro-gripper of claim 6 wherein said actuator means comprises a bellows device. 11. A tactile micro-gripper system comprising: a support frame; actuator means mounted to the support frame for causing motion relative to the support frame; a pair of levers with each lever having a plurality of flex points with one flex point being substantially fixed relative to the support frame, each lever being mounted to the support frame and coupled to the actuator means such that the levers cooperatively flex in opposite directions when acted upon by the actuator means; a pair of parallelogram springs with each spring having a fixed end mounted to the support frame and having a free end opposite the fixed end, the free end transcribing an arc about an axis of rotation, each parallelogram spring being coupled near the free end to one of the levers and being arranged together such that the axis of rotation of the free end generally corresponds to the fixed flex point of the lever; a pair of fingers coupled to the free ends of the springs, at least one of the fingers capable of tactile sensing by having a cantilever beam section with a mirror attached thereto, the tactile sensing finger further having a fiberoptic carrier disposed within the finger in optical communication with said mirror, the fiberoptic carrier and the mirror cooperating in such a manner that flexures of the cantilever beam change the area of the mirror that is presented to the fiberoptic carrier; a light source disposed in light coupling relation with the fiberoptic carrier for directing light to the mirror; and optical means for receiving light returned from the mirror and for directing a portion of the returned light to a photodetector, the photodetector converting light energy into a signal that is representative of the force applied to the cantilever beam. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said optical means is a beam splitter. 13. A tactile sensing finger for use with robotic grippers comprising: a finger body having a tip portion with a gripping surface; the gripping surface including a cantilever beam bendable upon application of a gripping force; a mirror attached to the cantilever beam opposite the gripping surface; a fiberoptic carrier disposed within the finger member with an end in a juxtaposed but offset relation to the mirror; a light source disposed in light coupling relation with the fiberoptic carrier for directing light to the mirror; wherein the fiberoptic carrier and the mirror cooperate such that bending of the cantilever beam changes the intensity of the reflected light that is presented to the fiberoptic carrier; and a beam splitter for splitting light returned from the mirror to the fiberoptic carrier, and for directing a portion of the split beam to a photodetector, the photodetector converting light intensity into a voltage that is representative of the force applied to the cantilever beam. 14. A micro-gripper assembly comprising: a first parallelogram spring mechanism having a free end and having an opposing fixed end coupled to a support frame, the free end transcribing an arc about an axis of rotation and remaining generally parallel to the fixed end; a first lever coupled to the first parallelogram spring mechanism near said free end, the lever having a flex point generally coinciding with said axis of rotation, and having an end fixed to said support frame; a second parallelogram spring mechanism arranged parallel with said first parallelogram spring mechanism and having an axis of rotation coinciding with said axis of rotation of said first parallelogram spring mechanism, said first lever being between said first and second parallelogram spring mechanisms and being coupled to the free ends thereof; and actuator means coupled to the lever for causing said lever to flex, whereby said free ends of the first and second parallelogram spring mechanisms follow the motion of said lever. 15. A micro-gripper assembly comprising: a first parallelogram spring mechanism having a free end and having an opposing fixed end couple to a support frame, the free end transcribing an arc about an axis of rotation and remaining generally parallel to the fixed end; a first lever coupled to the parallelogram spring mechanism near said free end, the lever having a flex point generally coinciding with said axis of rotation, and having an end fixed to said support frame; a second lever arranged parallel with said first lever and having a flex point coinciding with the flex point of said first lever, said first parallelogram spring mechanism being between said first and second levers and being coupled to both levers; and actuator means coupled to the levers for causing said levers to flex, whereby said free end of the parallelogram spring mechanism follows the motion of said levers. 