A package for an opto-electronic component and associated pigtail is characterized by a notch formed in the sidewall of an open topped lower housing portion which interrupts the edge of the housing such that the component can be laid into the housing with the pigtail extending through the notch.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A package for an opto-electric component comprising: a base; a sidewall on the base, the sidewall having an upper edge thereon; a cover having a rim thereon, the rim of the cover being engageable with the upper edge of the sidewall, the cover, when received on the sidewall, cooperating with the sidewall and the base to define a generally enclosed chamber, at least one of either the edge of the sidewall or the rim of the cover being interrupted by a gap therein, the chamber being accesible through the gap. 2. The package of claim 1 wherein the edge of the sidewalls is interrupted by a notch, the notch defining the gap through which the chamber is accesible. 3. The package of claim 1 wherein the rim of the cover is interruped by an opening, the opening defining the gap through which the chamber is accesible. 4. The package of claim 2 further comprising a open cradle member mounted to the sidewall in proximity to and in communication with the notch therein. 5. The package of claim 4 further comprising a heat conducting member having a planar shelf thereon, the heat conducting member being mounted to the package, a portion of the base of the package being defined by the planar shelf of the heat conducting member. 6. The package of claim 3 further comprising a heat conducting member having a planar shelf thereon, the heat conducting member being mounted to the package, a portion of the base of the package being defined by the planar shelf of the heat conducting member. 7. The package of claim 6 further comprising a passage in the base, the passage in the base exposing a portion of the shelf of the heat conducting member. 8. The package of claim 5 further comprising a passage in the base, the passage in the base exposing a portion of the shelf of the heat conducting member. 9. The package of claim 8 further comprising means for securing the cover to the base. 10. The package of claim 5 further comprising means for securing the cover to the base. 11. The package of claim 4 further comprising means for securing the cover to the base. 12. The package of claim 3 further comprising means for securing the cover to the base. 13. The package of claim 2 further comprising means for securing the cover to the base. 14. The package of claim 13 wherein the securing means comprises a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall. 15. The package of claim 12 wherein the securing means comprises a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall. 16. The package of claim 11 wherein the securing means comprises a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall. 17. The package of claim 10 wherein the securing means comprises a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall. 18. The package of claim 9 wherein the securing means comprises a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall. 19. The package of claim 6 wherein the base has a passage therein, further comprising: a heat conducting stud extending through the passage in the base into thermal contact with the shelf of the thermal conducing member. 20. The package of claim 5 wherein the base has a passage therein, further comprising: a heat conducting stud extending through the passage in the base into thermal contact with the shelf of the thermal conducing member. 21. A package for an opto-electronic component comprising: a base; a sidewall on the base, the sidewall having an upper edge thereon, the edge being interrupted by a notch formed in the sidewall; and a cover having a rim thereon, the rim of the cover being engageable with the upper edge of the sidewall, the rim of the cover being interrupted by an opening that registers with the notch in the edge of the sidewall, the cover, when received on the sidewall, cooperating with the sidewall and the base to define a generally enclosed component receiving chamber, the notch in the sidewall and the opening in the cover cooperating to define an access aperture, the chamber being accessible through the access aperture. 22. The package of claim 21 further comprising: an open cradle member mounted to the sidewall in proximity to and in communication with the notch therein; and a cradle canopy mounted to the coverr in proximity to and in communication with the opening therein; the cradle and the canopy cooperating with each other when the cover is mounted to the sidewall to define a tubular extension extending from the sidewall, the tubular extension being in communication with the chamber through the aperture defined by the registered opening and notch. 23. The package of claim 22 further comprising an elastomeric boot connected to the tubular extension. 24. The package of claim 22 further comprising a heat conductive member mounted to the housing, the heat conducting member having a planar portion thereon, a portion of the base of the package being defined by the planar portion of the heat conducing member. 25. The package of claim 24 wherein the base has a passage therein, further comprising: a heat conducting stud extending through the passage in the base into thermal contact with the shelf of the thermal conducting member. 26. The package of claim 24 further comprising means for securing the cover to the base. 27. The package of claim 26 wherein the securing means comprises a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall. 28. The package of claim 21 further comprising a heat conducting member mounted to the housing, the heat conducting member having a planar portion thereon, a portion of the base of the package being defined by the planar portion of the heat conducting member. 29. The package of claim 28 wherein the base has a passage therein, further comprising: a heat conducting stud extending through the passage in the base into thermal contact with the shelf of the thermal conducting member. 30. The package of claim 28 further comprising means for securing the cover to the base. 31. The package of claim 30 wherein the securing means comprises a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall. 32. An opto-electronic apparatus comprising: a package having a base surrounded by a sidewall, the base and sidewall cooperating to define an open topped housing a first and second conductive tab extending upwardly from the base, the tabs having tips thereon, the tips of the tabs being spaced apart by a first predetermined distance; an opto-electronic component having a first and a second electrical lead emanating therefrom, each of the leads having an upwardly inclined portion, the leads each having a tip thereon, the tips of the leads being spaced apart by a predetermined span, the span being greater than the predetermined distance between the tips of tabs such that as the component is inserted onto the base intermediate the inclined portion of the leads wipe against the tabs and are bent from their inclined orientation by the tabs. 33. A package for an opto-electric component comprising: a base; a sidewall on the base, the sidewall having an upper edge theron, the edge being interrupted by a notch formed in the sidewall, an open cradle member mounted to the sidewall in proximity to and in communication with the notch therein; a cover having a rim thereon, the rim of the cover being engageable with the upper edge of the sidewall, the rim of the cover being interrupted by an opening that registers with the notch in the edge of the sidewall, a cradle canopy mounted to the cover in proximity to and in communication with the opening therein; a heat conducting member having a planar portion thereon a portion of the base of the package being defined by the planar portion of the heat conducting member; means for securing the cover to the base, the securing means comprising a bead mounted on each of the cover and the sidewall of the base, the beads being interengaged when the cover is received on the sidewall; the cover, when received on the sidewall, cooperating with the sidewall and the base to define a generally enclosed component receiving chamber, the notch in the sidewall and the opening in the cover cooperating to define an access aperture, the chamber being accessible through the access aperture, the cradle and the canopy cooperating with each other when the cover is mounted to the sidewall to define a tubular extension extending from the sidewall, the tubular extension being in communication with the chamber through the apertured defined by the registered opening and notch; and an elastomeric boot connected to the tubular extension. 34. A method for manufacturing an opto-electronic apparatus comprising the steps of: (a) inserting an opto-electronic component onto the base of an open-topped package, the base having a sidewall thereon the sidewall having an upper edge that is interrupted by a notch formed therein; (b) securing the component to the base; (c) laying a fiber across the sidewall so that that fiber lies in the notch therein; and, (d) attaching a cover to the sidewall such that the cover, when received on the sidewall, cooperates with the sidewall and the base to define a generally enclosed chamber having the component therein. 