A variable focal length lens integrated onto a silicon wafer. A light transmitting material such as gas or liquid is entrapped in a cavity in the wafer. The cavity has a flexible, light transmitting wall. The wall provides one surface of the lens. When the material inside the cavity is heated or cooled, the wall flexes and the focal length of the lens changes. The lens is suitable for use in temperature and pressure sensors, fiber optic communication networks, optical computers, and other applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A variable focal length lens comprising: a semiconductor substrate having a cavity therein, said cavity having a flexible, light transmitting wall; a light transmitting material having a vapor pressure which changes with changing temperature disposed in said cavity; and a light transmitting substrate coupled to said semiconductor substrate so as to entrap said light transmitting material in said cavity. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for allowing a user to control the temperature of the material entrapped in said cavity. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a fiber optic light guide affixed in the light transmission path of light emerging from said flexible wall at such a position that the amount of light that is captured by said fiber optic light guide depends upon the then current shape of the flexible wall. 4. A variable focal length lens comprising: a first semiconductor substrate having a cavity therein, said cavity having a flexible, light transmitting wall; a light transmitting material having a vapor pressure which changes with changing temperature disposed in said cavity; and a second substrate coupled to said semiconductor substrate so as to entrap said light transmitting material in said cavity, said second substrate having a light reflecting surface inside said cavity. 5. A temperature sensor comprising: wherein the temperature of said light transmitting material is dependent on the temperature to be sensed by said sensor; and means for sensing said temperature to be sensed through sensing a focal length of said lens. 6. A variable focus lens comprising: a semiconductor substrate having an opening therethrough, said opening having a first end and a second end; a flexible, light transmitting membrane closing said opening at said first end; a light transmitting substrate closing said opening at said second end; a light transmitting material entrapped in said opening between said semiconductor substrate and said flexible membrane; and means for varying the pressure of said light transmitting material on said membrane. 7. The lens of claim 6 wherein said means for varying the pressure comprises a resistive heater inside said opening. 