A method and apparatus in which the wires from the heads on an actuator arm can be positioned and attached to the arm electronics automatically. A loadspring manufacturing assembly has a pair of wire carrying and positioning tails and a disposable portion. The disposable portion and the wire carrying and positioning tails each have pegs for controlling the position of the wire and for allowing twisting of the wire pairs for purposes of noise suppression. The wires are positioned about the pegs and twisted. The wires are then bonded to the loadspring assembly. A portion of the wire carrying tail has a window or opening therein. The wires are fanned out and spaced apart as they pass across the window. The wire carrying portion also has a living hinge. A portion of the wire carrying tail which includes a latching window which latches a peg is moved about the hinge and positioned at about a right angle to the loadspring. The disposable portion and the unused tail are removed. The remaining assembly is attached to the arm electronics module through the window with the spaced apart wires.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A method for assembling an actuator arm assembly having an arm electronics module using a loadspring manufacturing assembly which includes a loadspring, a tail portion attached to the loadspring, a disposable runner portion attached to the tail portion, and pegs on said tail portion and said disposable runner portion for positioning at least one pair of wires on the loadspring and on said tail portion, said method comprising the steps of: positioning and twisting the pair of wires on the pegs of the load spring assembly, said positioned wires being spaced apart on a portion of the tail; bonding the wires to the loadspring and the tail portion; removing the disposable runner portion of the loadspring manufacturing assembly; and placing the tail portion in a position so that the spaced wires on the tail will be positioned for attachment to a set of electrical pads on the arm electronics module having a distance between the centers corresponding to the space between the spaced wires. 2. The method for assembling an actuator arm assembly of claim 1, wherein said step of positioning and twisting the pair of wires is performed automatically by a mechanical apparatus. 3. The method for assembling an actuator arm assembly of claim 1, wherein: said step of positioning and twisting the pair of wires positions said wires spaced apart on a portion of the tail in a plane substantially parallel to said loadspring; and said step of placing the tail portion in a position comprises the step of rotating said portion of the tail on which said positioned wires are spaced apart to a plane substantially perpendicular to said loadspring. 4. The method for assembling an actuator arm assembly of claim 3, wherein said tail portion comprises a first portion, a second portion, and a hinge between said first portion and said second portion, said first portion being attached to said loadspring, and wherein said step of rotating said portion of the tail on which said positioned wires are spaced apart comprises rotating said second portion on said hinge. 5. The method for assembling an actuator arm assembly of claim 3, wherein said step of positioning and twisting the pair of wires is performed automatically by a mechanical apparatus. 