A sensor tip (10) for use in a robotic hand has a three-dimensional compliant elastomeric body (12) with an outer boundary (22) having a circular base (24) and a convex surface (26) extending therefrom. Four strain transducers (14, 16, 18, and 20) produce electrical signals indicative of the strain at various positions near the boundary of the elastomeric body (12) resulting from forces exerted upon the sensor tip (10) by an object which the robotic hand is manipulating. The transducers (14, 16, 18, and 20) are positioned about the convex surface (26) so as to produce signals that may be decoupled to determine the normal and tangential forces and the applied torque. A buffer amplifier circuit (34), one for each of the transducers (14, 16, 18, and 20), receives the signals and provides quasi-steady state force information. The circuit (34) connects the respective transducer (40) in a feedback loop around an amplifier (36) and has desirable attributes for static charge buffering. The sensor tip (10) is calibrated to determine proportionality constants for the decoupling algorithm for use of a force delivering system (60), which uses voice coils (74) to apply a force that is linearly related to the current introduced to each of the coils (74). A method of manufacture of the sensor tip (10) results in improved bonding between the transducers (14, 16, 18, and 20) and the elastomeric body (12) for better performance and longer life of the sensor tip (10).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensor tip for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulating an object, the sensor tip providing feedback information on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the sensor tip comprising: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being formed of a relatively compliant material as compared to the object to be manipulated; (b) a transducer which produces an electrical signal indicative of strain therein and which is located in the elastomeric body near the outer boundary of the body to yield information on a force or torque component acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated; and (c) buffer amplifier means for receiving the electrical signal produced by the transducer and providing an output signal, the means including an operational amplifier having an input and an output, the transducer being connected in a feedback loop between the output and the input of the amplifier to produce an output voltage from the amplifier which is indicative of strain in the transducer. 2. The sensor tip of claim 1 wherein the transducer is a strip of piezoelectric polymer film. 3. The sensor tip of claim 1 wherein the transducer is a charge source. 4. The sensor tip of claim 1 further including a high resistance feedback resistor connected between the input and output of the amplifier in parallel with the transducer. 5. The sensor tip of claim 4 wherein the feedback resistor is selected so as to dominate over the input resistance to the amplifier. 6. The sensor tip of claim 4 wherein the input bias of the amplifier is one picoampere or less. 7. The sensor tip of claim 4 wherein the resistance of the feedback resistor is on the order of 10.sup.11 to 10.sup.12 ohms. 8. The sensor tip of claim 4 further including a feedback capacitor connected in parallel with the transducer to allow selection of the output voltage range of the amplifier. 9. The sensor tip of claim 1 wherein the outer boundary of the body has a base and a convex surface extending from the base, the convex surface having a distal point of maximal distance from the base, the buffer amplifier means being located at the base of the sensor tip. 10. The sensor tip of claim 9 wherein there are at least three force transducers and buffer amplifier means, the transducers located at separated positions on the body to yield information on two independent tangential force components and an independent normal force component acting on the body. 11. The sensor tip of claim 10 wherein there are four transducers at separate positions on the sensor body to yield information on a torque component acting on the body. 12. The sensor tip of claim 1 wherein the material of the elastomeric body is silicone rubber. 13. A sensor tip system for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulating an object, the sensor tip system providing feedback information on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the system comprising: (a) an elastomeric body having a three-dimensional outer boundary that contacts the object being manipulated, the body being formed of a relatively compliant material as compared to the object to be manipulated; (b) at least three transducers attached to the body at separated positions near the outer boundary of the body, each of the transducers producing an electrical signal indicative of strain therein and yielding information on a force or torque component on the body resulting from manipulation of the object being contacted; (c) buffer amplifier means for receiving the electrical signals produced by each of the transducers and providing output signals, the means including an operational amplifier having an input and an output for each of the transducers, each of the transducers being connected in a feedback loop between the output and the input of its respective amplifier to produce an output voltage from the amplifier which is indicative of strain in the transducer; and (d) means for decoupling the electrical signals from the buffer amplifier means to resolve independent components of force or torque acting upon the body. 14. The sensor tip system of claim 13 wherein the transducer is a strip of piezoelectric polymer film. 15. The sensor tip system of claim 13 wherein the transducer is a charge source. 16. The sensor tip system of claim 13 further including a high resistance feedback resistor connected between the input and output of each amplifier in parallel with the transducer. 17. The sensor tip system of claim 16 wherein the feedback resistor is selected so as to dominate over the input resistance to the amplifier. 18. The sensor tip system of claim 16 wherein the input bias of each amplifier is one picoampere or less. 19. The sensor tip system of claim 16 wherein the resistance of the feedback resistor is on the order of 10.sup.11 to 10.sup.12 ohms. 20. The sensor tip system of claim 16 further including a feedback capacitor connected in parallel with the transducer to allow selection of the output voltage range of the amplifier. 21. The sensor tip system of claim 13 wherein the outer boundary of the body has a base and a convex surface extending from the base, the convex surface having a distal point of maximal distance from the base, the buffer amplifier means being located at the base of the sensor tip. 22. The sensor tip system of claim 13 wherein the material of the elastomeric body is silicone rubber. 23. A sensor tip for use in a robotic hand which is capable of manipulating an object, the sensor tip providing feedback information on forces acting upon the sensor tip by the object, the sensor tip comprising: (a) a body that contacts the object being manipulated; (b) a transducer disposed on the body which produces an electrical signal to yield information on a force or torque component acting upon the sensor tip by the object being manipulated; and (c) buffer amplifier means for the electrical signal produced by the transducer and providing an output signal, the means including an operational amplifier having an input and an output, the transducer being connected in a feedback loop between the output and the input of the amplifier to produce an output voltage from the amplifier which is indicative of strain in the transducer. 24. The sensor tip of claim 23 wherein the transducer is a strip of piezoelectric polymer film. 25. The sensor tip of claim 23 wherein the transducer is a charge source. 26. The sensor tip of claim 23 further including a high resistance feedback resistor connected between the input and output of the amplifier in parallel with the transducer. 27. The sensor tip of claim 26 wherein the feedback resistor is selected so as to dominate over the input resistance to the amplifier. 28. The sensor tip of claim 26 wherein the input bias of the amplifier is one picoampere or less. 29. The sensor tip of claim 26 wherein the resistance of the feedback resistor is on the order of 10.sup.11 to 10.sup.12 ohms. 30. The sensor tip of claim 26 further including an feedback capacitor connected in parallel with the transducer to allow selection of the output voltage range of the amplifier. 