An optical archive storage system includes a large number of off-line optical disks which are selectively transported to read/write units by a robotic manipulator. Access to the data files on the disks is maintained and controlled through the use of a token file on a magnetic storage device on a controller computer for each data file on each disk. The file attributes which the operating system of the computer assigns to the token file are used to control access and ownership of the data files on the disks.
Claims I claim: 1. A mass storage system for digital data files comprising: a plurality of individual storage units each containing at least one data file and an index log containing information about the at least one date file stored therein, each storage unit having an identification associated with it; at least one reading device which can read the data files and index log of a storage unit placed therein; automated means for placing a storage unit on the reading device; and a digital computer having an associated magnetic storage device and connected to control the automated means to cause a one of the storage units to be placed on the reader, and connected to the reading device to receive data files therefrom, the computer being provided with an operating system program adapted for the maintenance, retrieval, and control of access to data files stored in the associated magnetic storage device, the computer programmed to maintain on the magnetic storage device a token file for each respective data file on each storage unit, each token file being maintained, retrieved and having access to it controlled by the operating system of the computer in accordance with the normal functioning of the operating system of the computer and each token file having, as its data, the identification of the storage unit on which the data file is placed, the address of the data file on the storage unit, and the size of the respective data file on the storage unit, whereby the file data which the operating system assigns to the token files is used to control access to the data files on the storage units without the need for access to the storage units. 2. A mass storage system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the storage units are optical disks. 3. A mass storage system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the automated means is a robot capable of transporting storage units under the control of the computer. 4. A mass storage system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the token file also includes a location into which a narrative description of the data file may be placed. 5. A mass storage system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the operating system of the computer normally maintains information about ownership, access and protection of data files on the associated magnetic storage device and wherein the computer is further programmed to determine ownership, access and protection of the data files on the storage units by referring only to ownership, access and protection attributes associated with the respective token file on the magnetic storage device for each data file. 6. A mass storage system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the computer is further programmed to create directories of data files by referring only to selected portions of the token files. 7. A mass storage system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the computer is a VAX computer and the token files are maintained by the VMS operating system. 8. An optical archive storage system for storing data files comprising: a plurality of write-once, read-many times optical data disks stored off-line; a read/write unit to read or write an optical disk mounted thereon; a robotic manipulator to transfer optical disks into and out of the read/write unit; a digital computer connected to control operation of the read/write unit and the robotic manipulator, the computer including an on-line magnetic disk storage device and containing an operating system adapted for the control of the access to and retrieval of the files on the on-line magnetic disk storage device, the on-line magnetic storage device having therein a token file for each data file on each optical disk, the token file including the identification of the data file, the identification of the optical disk, and identification of the subject matter of the data file so that directories and searches of the data files on the optical disks, and control of access to the files on the optical disks, can be performed using the token files without the need for access to the optical disks. 9. An optical archive storage system as claimed in claim 8 wherein the computer has an operating system and the token files are maintained by the operating system. 10. An optical archive storage system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the operating system assigns ownership, access and protection attributes to each token file and wherein the attributes of the token file are used to determine ownership, access and protection of the data files. 