Apparatus is disclosed for detecting irregularities or flaws in seams such as the seams of cans. The apparatus includes means for irradiating the surface of the seam to produce reflected radiation signals, a plurality of radiation sensors, each having a selected field of view of the surface, and each producing sensor output signals dependent on reflected radiation signals received within such field of view. A signal processing means receives sensor output signals for a succession of fields of view along the longitudinal length of the seam and derives therefrom signal data representing a dimensional feature of the seam. Signl comparison means compares such derived data with signal data representing an acceptable dimensional limit and produces a rejection signal in the event that the dimensional feature does not fall within the limit. Means for classifying the nature of an irregularity is also disclosed, as is transport means for the movement of seams though the field of view of the sensors.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for detecting an irregularity in the surface of an elongated seam having a curvate surface cross-section, said apparatus comprising: (a) irradiation means for irradiating said surface to produce reflected signals; (b) a plurality of radiation sensors, each being disposed to have a selected field of view of the surface, each such view being defined by a width extending longitudinally of said seam and a length curvately extending in a plane lying transverse to the longitudinal direction of said seam; each such sensor for receiving such portion of said reflected signals as are reflected within its corresponding field of view and for producing corresponding sensor output signals in response thereto; (c) signal processing means for receiving said sensor output signals for a succession of fields of view along the longitudinal length of said seam, and for deriving therefrom signal data representing a dimensional feature of said seam; and, (d) signal comparison means for comparing said signal data with signal data representing an acceptable dimensional limit, and for producing a rejection signal in the event that said dimensional feature does not fall within said limit. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein said signal data representing an acceptable dimensional limit is derived by said signal processing means from said sensor output signals. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 2, further including classification means for characterizing the nature of the irregularity if said dimensional feature does not fall within said limit. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, 2 or 3, including means for longitudinally moving said seam through the field of view of said sensors. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said seam is a longitudinally circular double seam joining the lid and body of a can. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 5, including transport means for rotating said can to longitudinally move said seam through the field of view of said sensors. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 5, including transport means for lifting said can to move said seam into the field of view of said sensors and for rotating said can to longitudinally move said seam through the field of view of said sensors. 8. Apparatus as defined in claim 6, wherein said transport means comprises: (a) an inspection rotor and means for rotating same about a fixed vertically extending central axis; said sensors being mounted to said rotor so as to rotate therewith; and, (b) a rotatable inspection platform mounted to said rotor to support said can in an upright position radially away from said central axis, and means for rotating said platform with said can in a direction of rotation opposite to that of said rotor about a planetary axis extending parallel to said central axis. 9. Apparatus as defined in claim 5, 6 or 8, comprising four of said sensors, wherein: (a) a first one of said sensors is disposed to have a field of view looking upwardly and radially inwardly at said seam; (b) a second one of said sensors is disposed to have a field of view horizontally inwardly at said seam; (c) a third one of said sensors is disposed to have a field of view looking vertically downwardly at said seam; and, (d) a fourth one of said sensors is disposed to have a field of view looking downwardly and radially outwardly at said seam. 10. Apparatus as defined in claim 2, wherein said signal processing means comprises, for each of said sensors, an associated means for deriving data on length for each of said succession of fields of view, such data on length relating to the transverse length of said seam as viewed by the corresponding sensor. 11. Apparatus as defined in claim 10, wherein said signal comparison means comprises, for each of said sensors, an associated means for comparing data on length as derived for one of said succession of fields of view with data on length derived for another one of said fields of view, and means for recording a deviation if any difference in such data exceeds a predetermined threshold. 12. Apparatus as defined in claim 11, including means for removing noise from said data prior to said data comparison. 13. Apparatus as defined in claim 10, 11, or 12, further including classification means for characterizing the nature of the irregularity if said dimensional feature does not fall within said limit. 