A drive mechanism (62) for driving a mechanical joint (10) that includes first and second gimbal assemblies (14, 16) rotatably mounted within the interior of a support (18) and includes a decoupling mechanism (70, 72) in slidable engagement with the support (18) for effecting movement of the joint (10) in a compound yaw and pitch motion includes a yaw drive member (66) having a gear surface (82) in engagement with a drive shaft (84) having a beveled gear end portion (80) arranged to engage the gear surface (82). A pitch drive member (68) includes a gear surface (78) in engagement with a bevel gear end portion (76) of a second drive shaft (74). Both yaw and pitch drive members (66, 68) are pivotally connected to the decoupling mechanism (70, 72).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanical joint comprising: support means having an interior; first and second gimbal means rotatably mounted within the interior, each gimbal means having means for transferring motion to the other gimbal means so that yaw and pitch motion is effected; decoupling means in slidable engagement with the support means for effecting movement of the joint in a compound yaw and pitch motion; yaw drive means having a yaw gear surface and pivotally connected to the decoupling means; a yaw drive shaft with a yaw gear end portion arranged to engage the gear surface of the yaw drive means; pitch drive means having a pitch gear surface and pivotally connected to the decoupling means; a pitch drive shaft with a pitch gear end portion arranged to engage the gear surface of the pitch drive means; and means for providing rotational motion connected to the first gimbal means. 2. The joint of claim 1 wherein the decoupling means includes a first and a second decoupling ring in rotational relationship with each other and the support means, the yaw drive means being pivotally attached to the first decoupling ring and the pitch drive means being pivotally attached to the second decoupling ring. 3. The joint of claim 1 wherein the yaw drive shaft, the pitch drive shaft and the means for providing rotational motion are coaxially disposed with respect to one another. 4. The joint of claim 1 and further including: means for stabilizing movement of the yaw drive means; and wherein the yaw drive means is disposed between the means for stabilizing movement and the yaw drive shaft. 5. The joint of claim 4 wherein the means for stabilizing movement includes roller means engaging a surface of the yaw drive means. 6. The joint of claim 1 and further including: means for stabilizing movement of the pitch drive means; and wherein the pitch drive means is disposed between the means for stabilizing movement and the pitch drive shaft. 7. The joint of claim 6 wherein the means for stabilizing movement includes roller means engaging a surface of the pitch drive means. 8. The joint of claim 1 wherein the first gimbal means includes: an inner gimbal member rotatably mounted to the support means and having means for transmitting motion to another inner gimbal member of the second gimbal means; an outer gimbal member rotatably mounted to the support means and having means for transmitting motion to another outer gimbal of the second gimbal means; conduit means having an internal passage and being attached to the inner gimbal member and extending through a slot of the outer gimbal member, the slot having oppositely-facing first and second surfaces, each surface having first and second tracks; first bearing means disposed about the conduit means and engaging a first track of a first surface; and second bearing means disposed about the conduit means and engaging a second track of a second surface. 9. A mechanical joint comprising: support means having an interior; a first and a second gimbal assembly rotatably mounted within the interior, each gimbal assembly having means for transferring motion to the other gimbal assembly; drive means operatively connected to the first and second gimbal assemblies for effecting selective movement of the first and second gimbal assemblies; means for transmitting rotational movement to the joint including a drive shaft attached to the first gimbal assembly; and means for engaging the drive shaft having a member that is preloaded against and slidably engaging the drive shaft and being pivotally attached to the support means. 10. A mechanical joint comprising: support means having an interior; a first and second gimbal assembly rotatably mounted within the interior, each gimbal assembly having means for transferring motion to the other gimbal assembly; drive means operatively connected to the first and second gimbal assemblies for effecting selective movement of the first and second gimbal assemblies; means for transmitting rotational movement to the joint; and linkage means for stabilizing the joint having a first end pivotally attached to the support means and a second end pivotally attached to a base from which the drive means extends. 