A stair climbing robot and method of operation is described. The robot includes a chassis having powered opposed front wheels and two pairs of rear wheels each pair being rotatably mounted on a beam at opposite ends thereof, and each beam being rotatably mounted on the chassis. A drive motor is provided for driving each pair of wheels in the same direction at a predetermined rotational velocity and a drive means is provided for simultaneously rotating the beams at a predetermined rotational velocity and in a predetermined direction. The method of operation to climb stairs includes the steps of activating the rotation of the beams in a forward direction while causing each pair of rear wheels to rotate in an opposite direction at the same rotational velocity. In this way, forward movement is achieved by action of the front wheels and the rotating beams and the rotational velocity of the rear wheels relative to the terrain will be zero.
Claims We claim: 1. A robot vehicle adapted to climb stairs and similar obstacles comprising: an elongated chassis having a front, back, sides and top and a pair of front wheels rotatably mounted on opposite sides thereof; a pair of beams rotatably mounted on opposite sides of said chassis each beam extending from the center toward the rear of the chassis whereby the axis of rotation of each beam is contained in a plane perpendicular to the planes containing each of said front wheels; a first and a second pair of wheels, one rotatably mounted at each end of each beam whereby when said beams are horizontal and said six wheels rest on a horizontal surface the longitudinal axis of said chassis will be substantially horizontal; reversible first and second front drive means coupled respectively to each of said front wheels for selectively rotating said wheels; reversible first and second rear drive means coupled respectively for selectively rotating each pair of wheels mounted on each beam whereby each wheel in a pair is rotated in the same direction and the same rotational velocity; reversible wheel over wheel drive means coupled to each beam for selectively causing said beams to rotate in the same direction and at the same velocity; and control means coupled to each of said drive means for sensing and controlling the direction of rotation and rotational velocity of each wheel and for engaging the wheel over wheel drive means to rotate said beams in one direction at a first rotational velocity and to rotate each of said pairs of wheels in an opposite direction at the same rotational velocity. 2. The vehicle of claim 1 further comprising clutch means coupled between said wheel over wheel drive means and said beams for causing said drive means to drivingly engage and rotate or disengage said beams responsive to a signal from said control means. 3. The vehicle of claim 2 further comprising: a turret rotatably mounted on the top of said chassis and turret drive means coupled thereto and to said control means for rotating said turret in a predetermined direction in response to a signal from said control means. 4. The vehicle of claim 3 further comprising; an arm having an end pivotally mounted on said turret and an opposite free end and means coupled thereto for raising the free end of said arm. 5. The vehicle of claim 4 further comprising a claw rotatably mounted on the free end of said arm, said claw having pivotally interconnected jaws and means coupled to said jaw and to said control means for selectively opening and closing said jaw and rotating said jaw responsive to a signal from said control means. 6. The vehicle of claim 5 further comprising a receiver means coupled to said control means for receiving remote command signals. 7. The vehicle of claim 6 further comprising light and camera means carried thereby for viewing a predetermined area relative to said vehicle and for generating a video signal and transmitter means for transmitting said video signal to a remote location. 8. The vehicle of claim 7 further comprising microphone means carried thereby for generating an audio signal and coupled to said transmitter means, said transmitter means further comprising means for transmitting said audio signal to the remote location. 9. The vehicle of claim 8 further comprising speaker means for receiving an audio signal and generating the sound responsive thereto, said speaker means coupled to said receiver means, said receiver means further comprising means for receiving an audio signal from the remote location and transmitting the same to said speaker means. 10. In an improved method for operating a wheel over wheel vehicle to climb a stair or similar terrain obstacle wherein the vehicle has a pair of powered front wheels and two pairs of rear wheels each wheel rotatably mounted on a beam at either end thereof and each beam rotatably mounted on said vehicle and drive means for rotating each pair of wheels in a predetermined direction and at a predetermined velocity and for rotating the beams in a predetermined direction and at a predetermined velocity the improvement comprising; rotating said beams in a predetermined direction and at a predetermined rotational velocity and rotating said rear wheels in an opposite direction and at the same rotational velocity whereby the rotational velocity of the rear wheels resting on the terrain relative thereto will be zero and movement is achieved by action of the front wheels and rotating beams. 