An axial lead component feeder is described, which includes a lead cutting and forming station, at which the processed parts are presented at a part pickup location for robotic pickup. Taped axial lead components are fed to a lower process-start location. A cut/form pneumatic cylinder drives a lower die support block upward, directly passing cutting die carried by the support block through captured components leads to cut the leads to a desired length. In the same upward stroke of the cylinder, the leads are formed, and the processed part presented at the pickup location. The feeder has many advantages, including narrow footprint and low Z axis profile, reduced number of change tooling parts, increased part refresh rate and improved scrap tape removal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A component lead cutting and forming apparatus for axial lead electronic components respectively having first and second leads secured to tape, comprising: a lead cutting and forming station, wherein successive components secured to the tape are processed to cut and form the leads and presented at a station pickup location for robotic pickup; means for driving the tape so as to present successive components secured to the tape to a process-start location comprising said station; and wherein said station is further characterized in that the lead forming and cutting operations are performed as the component-in-process is moved from said process-start location to said pickup location within said station, and comprises: (i) upper forming die disposed above said process-start location, and having lead forming elements and lead cutting surfaces; (ii) lower support means for supporting said component-in-process body and leads during the lead cutting and forming operations; (iii) lower component lead cutting die members for acting in cooperation with said lead cutting surfaces of said upper forming die to cut the component-in-process leads to a desired length during the component lead cutting and forming operations; (iv) means for translating said lower support means and said lower cutting members to carry said component-in-process from said process-start position to said pickup position, said component-in-process leads being cut and formed during said translation, wherein said component leads are cut and formed, and the component-in-process is moved from said process-start position to said pickup position in a single movement; and (iv) means for providing strain relief clamping of the leads of said component-in-process against said lower support means during said cutting and forming operation. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further characterized by means for fully constraining the leads of a component-in-process at the process-start location of said station, thereby securing the component-in-process at the commencement of the cut and form process. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said constraining means comprises surfaces of said upper forming die and said lower support means. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said tape driving means comprises a lower ratchet member having a plurality of spaced angled teeth for engaging the leads of components secured to said tape, means for driving said lower ratchet member so as to drive said tape toward said cutting and forming station, and an upper ratchet member having a plurality of teeth angled in a direction opposite the teeth of the lower ratchet member, and wherein said lower ratchet member comprises an end surface which contacts the underside of the leads of said component-in-process at said process-start location, and said upper ratchet member comprises a clamping surface which clamps the upper side of the leads of the component-in-process at the process-start location. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said upper ratchet member is biased by a spring force to clamp said clamping surface toward said lower support means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said upper ratchet member provides strain relief clamping of said component-in-process leads by said clamping surface against said lower support means as said leads are cut and formed at said station. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising means for selectively moving the lower and upper ratchet members away from said tape to permit the apparatus to be loaded or unloaded with tape. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said translating means comprises a pneumatic cylinder comprising an extensible piston member which exerts a force to drive said lower support means and said lower cutting die upwardly to perform said cutting and forming operations. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tape drive means comprises a lower ratchet member arranged with a plurality of angled ratchet teeth appropriately spaced to engage against the taped leads of components, and means for driving the lower ratchet in a reciprocating movement. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said lower ratchet member comprises, for each component lead, inner and outer ratchet elements, one disposed adjacent the respective component bodies, the other disposed outward of the component bodies. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said lower ratchet driving means comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further characterized in that said apparatus is characterized by a relatively low Z axis profile, in that the apparatus does not have structure extending in the Z axis above the component pickup location in the vicinity of the station, thereby minimizing the risk that a pickup robot will inadvertently strike the apparatus structure in the course of component pickup movements. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for guiding the tape and lead scraps resulting from the cutting operation away from the lead cutting and forming station. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said guiding means comprises a tape scrap chute into which the tape and lead scraps are directed and which extends toward the rear of the apparatus away from the cutting and forming station, and air jet means for directing a stream of air along the scrap chute toward the rear of the apparatus, thereby tending to move the scrap toward the rear as the tape is driven toward the cutting and forming station. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said lower support means comprises a lower support die comprising a corner radiused groove to receive a portion of the component-in-process lead, serving to constrain the component-in-process from moving except in a direction upwardly during the forming and cutting operation. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising first and second side cover plates for covering the apparatus sides during normal operation, but which may be removed for apparatus servicing without preventing the functioning of said apparatus to cut and form leads. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said lead forming surfaces of said upper forming die comprises, for each component body lead, a bending roller mounted so as to engage and bend the lead during the translation from the process-start location to the pickup location and thereafter guide the formed lead into a tapered groove comprising the upper forming die. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for providing strain relief clamping comprises: an upper clamping member mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot point, said member having a lead clamping surface which engages against said component lead when the component is at the process-start location; means for biasing said upper clamping member tending to urge said lead clamping surface against said leads; and wherein the size of said upper clamping member and the position of said pivot point is selected so that, as said component-in-process is translated from said process-start location to said pickup location, said clamping surface engages against the lead to provide strain relief clamping against said lower support means during said lead cutting and forming operations, but when the component-in-process reaches the pickup location, said clamping surface no longer engages the component lead and is disposed away from said component-in-process so as not to interfere with the component pickup. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said lower support means comprises a bevelled surface, and wherein, as said lower support means is translated to carry said component-in-process from said process-start location to said pickup location, said lead clamping surface of said upper clamping member slides from engagement against said component lead to said bevelled surface, wherein said clamping surface is below the body of the component-in-process when disposed at said pickup location. 20. A component lead cutting and forming apparatus for axial lead electronic components respectively having first and second leads secured to tape, comprising: a lead cutting and forming station, wherein successive components secured to the tape are processed to cut and form the leads and presented at a station pickup location for robotic pickup; means for driving the tape so as to present successive components secured to the tape to a process-start location comprising said station, said means comprising upper and lower ratchet members having angled teeth, the teeth of the lower ratchet angled to engage against leads of components to drive the components toward said process-start location, the teeth of the upper ratchet being angled in a sense opposite the lower ratchet teeth; and wherein said station further comprises: (i) upper forming die disposed above said process-start location, and having lead forming elements and lead cutting surfaces; (ii) lower support means for supporting said component-in-process body and leads during the lead cutting and forming operations; (iii) component lead cutting die members for cutting the component-in-process leads to a desired length during the component lead cutting and forming operations; (iv) means for translating said lower support means and said lower cutting members to carry said component-in-process from said process-start position to said pickup position, wherein said component leads are cut and formed, and the component-in-process is moved from said process-start position to said pickup position in a single movement; and (iv) means for providing strain relief clamping of the leads of said component-in-process against said lower support means during said cutting and forming operation, said means comprising clamping surfaces of said upper ratchet member, said strain relief clamping means further characterized in that said clamping surfaces no longer engage said leads of said component-in-process when disposed at said pickup location and are disposed away from said component-in-process so as not to interfere with its pickup. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 further characterized by means for fully constraining the leads of a component-in-process at the process-start location of said station, thereby securing the leads of the component-in-process at the commencement of the cut and form process. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said constraining means comprises surfaces of said upper forming die and said lower support means, said lower ratchet member and said clamping surfaces of said upper ratchet member. 23. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said upper ratchet member is mounted for pivotal movement about a pivot point, and said strain relief clamping means is further characterized by: means for biasing said upper ratchet member, tending to urge said lead clamping surface against said leads; and wherein the size of said upper ratchet member and the position of said pivot point is selected so that, as said component-in-process is translated from said process-start location to said pickup location, said clamping surface engages the leads to provide strain relief clamping against said lower support means during said lead cutting and forming operations, but when the component-in-process reaches the pickup location, said clamping surface no longer engages the component lead and is disposed away from said component-in-process so as not to interfere with the component pickup. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said lower support means comprises a bevelled surface, and wherein, as said lower support means is translated to carry said component-in-process from said process-start location to said pickup location, said lead clamping surface of said upper ratchet member slides from engagement against said component lead to said bevelled surface, wherein said clamping surface is below the body of the component-in-process when disposed at said pickup location. 