A toy glider has an elongated fuselage having a longitudinal axis in the normal horizontal flight attitude, a nose section and a tail section having airfoil portions in horizontal and vertical planes. The fuselage includes a trapezoidal portion with non-parallel sides forming wing root fairings at an angle to the longitudinal axis for mounting a pair of wings having wing roots at an angle to a wing span axis, and pivotal on the wing root fairings. The wings may be extended into normal flight position and may also be pivoted into a retracted position parallel to the longitudinal axis. In a preferred embodiment the nose section simulates a head, and the vertical tail portions simulate feet, providing the appearance of an animal figure. The glider has the aft edges of the tail section in a vertical, transverse plane, whereby the glider can stand on its tail in an erect, standing posture, and the aft edges of the vertical tail portions also include wheels so the erect glider may also be rolled on the wheels. The tail is depending with wheels below the fuselage in the horizontal orientation. The nose pivots downward and also includes a wheel, so the glider may land on wheels or roll with wings retracted as a toy automobile. With the nose section and wheel elevated, the glider also simulates a toy boat.
Claims I claim: 1. A transformable toy glider comprising: an elongated fuselage having a generally horizontal longitudinal axis when said toy glider is in an attitude of normal flight, a nose section and a tail section having airfoil portions parallel to the longitudinal axis, generally in the horizontal and vertical planes including aft and tip edges, said fuselage including a portion of generally trapezoidal form in a horizontal plane, said trapezoidal portion having its parallel sides comprising parallel planes orthogonal to the longitudinal axis and having non-parallel sides forming wing root fairings comprising non-parallel planes at an angle to the longitudinal axis and adapted for the mounting of respective wings thereon; a pair of generally planar airfoil wings in the horizontal plane, each having a leading edge and a trailing edge, a span axis and having generally planar wing roots in a vertical plane at an angle to said span axis, said wing roots being pivotally attached the the fuselage in abutment with said wing root fairings. a first rotational position stop for each of said wings in which the angle of the wing root and the angle of the fuselage wing root fairing are added to orient the span axis of the wings into a generally extended flight position normal to the longitudinal axis of the fuselage and the wing airfoils are in the horizontal plane and parallel to the longitudinal axis; and a second rotational position stop for each of said wings, approximately 180.degree. from said first limit stop position, in which the angle of the wing root and the angle of the fuselage wing root fairing are subtracted to orient the span axis of the wings in a retracted position generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of the fuselage and the wing airfoils are in the horizontal plane and transverse to the longitudinal axis and the leading edges of the wings are adjacent to the fuselage. 2. A toy glider according to claim 1 in which at least one vertical portion of the tail section has a depending tip edge, whereby the glider may be placed on a horizontal surface and is partially supported by said depending tip edge of the tail section. 3. A toy glider according to claim 1 in which the nose section is hingedly attached to the fuselage about a hinge axis in the horizontal plane, said hinge axis transverse to the longitudinal axis of the fuselage, whereby said nose section may be rotated in a downward direction about said hinge axis to depend below the fuselage, and at least one vertical portion of the tail section has a tip edge depending below the fuselage, whereby the glider in a normal horizontal flight attitude may be placed on a horizontal surface and be supported by said depending nose section and said tail empennage. 4. A toy glider according to claim 3 in which each depending vertical tip portion of the tail section and the downwardly rotated hose section have wheels whereby the glider may be rolled on a horizontal surface. 5. A toy glider according to claim 1 in which the aft edges of the vertical and horizontal airfoil portions of the tail section form a plane normal to the longitudinal axis, whereby the glider may be placed on a horizontal surface with the longitudinal axis of the glider being vertical. 6. A toy glider according to claim 5 in which the aft edges of the vertical airfoil portions of the tail section are provided with a plurality of wheels whereby the glider may be rolled on a horizontal surface with the longitudinal axis of the glider being vertical. 7. A toy glider according to claim 1 in which the fuselage is provided with a simulated cabin on an upper surface, and is further provided with simulated boat hull contours on a lower surface. 8. A toy glider according to claim 1 in which the vertical plane tail airfoil portions are in the form of biped humanoid or animal feet. 9. A toy glider according to claim 1 in which the nose section is in the form of a humanoid or animal head. 