An edge contouring system for removing burrs from edges of precision parts. The system includes an industrial robot for moving a special piloted deburring tool along the part edges. A compliance device applies a constant force on the deburring tool to keep it in contact with the part edge, yet permits movement of the tool in a direction normal to the part surface to accommodate for irregularities in the part geometry. A pilot integral with the deburring tool limits penetration of the tool into the part edge.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for machining an edge of a workpiece, comprising: a rotary cutting tool; means for rotating said rotary cutting tool; means for moving said rotary cutting tool along the edge of the workpiece; a pilot, connected to said rotary cutting tool, for limiting the penetration of said rotary cutting tool into the edge of said workpiece; means for permitting movement of the rotary cutting tool in a direction normal to the workpiece edge; and compliance means for applying a force on said rotary cutting tool to drive said cutting tool into the workpiece edge, said force being applied in said normal direction. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising means for damping the movement of said rotary cutting tool caused by said cutting tool striking a burr on the edge of the workpiece. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for applying a force on said rotary cutting tool comprises a spring and damper assembly. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for applying a force on said rotary cutting tool comprises a shock absorber. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for rotating said rotary cutting tool comprises an air grinder. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for moving said rotary cutting tool comprises an industrial manipulator. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein said industrial manipulator comprises a computer controlled robotic arm. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said pilot is integral with said rotary cutting tool. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said rotary cutting tool and integral pilot comprise: a first cylindrical shaft; a second cylindrical shaft of lesser diameter than and coaxial with said first shaft, said pilot consisting of said second shaft; and a tapered section between said first shaft and said second shaft. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising a plurality of cutting teeth formed on the surface of the tapered section of said rotary cutting tool. 11. The apparatus according to claim 9, further including an abrasive coating applied to the surface of the tapered section of said rotary cutting tool. 12. Apparatus for removing burrs and producing an accurate chamfer on the edge of a workpiece, comprising: a grinding motor; a rotary cutting tool; means for securing said cutting tool to said grinding motor, whereby said cutting tool is rotatable by said grinding motor; a robot for supporting said grinding motor and moving said rotary cutting tool in a predetermined path along the edge of said workpiece; means for permitting movement of the rotary cutting tool in a direction normal to said workpiece edge; a compliance means for applying a force on said rotary cutting tool in said normal direction to drive said cutting tool into contact with said workpiece edge; and a guidance pilot integral with said rotary cutting tool for limiting the penetration of said cutting tool into the edge of said workpiece. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said rotary cutting tool and integral pilot comprise: a first cylindrical shaft; a second cylindrical shaft of lesser diameter than and coaxial with said first shaft, said pilot consisting of said second shaft; a tapered section between said first shaft and said second shaft; and a plurality of cutting teeth formed on the surface of the tapered section of said rotary cutting tool. 14. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said compliance device comprises a spring and damper, said spring being preloaded to generate said force on said rotary cutting tool. 