A ring latched coupler includes a male assembly having a plurality of grooves and a female assembly having a plurality of slots. The female assembly is configured to receive the male assembly. A latching ring is rotatably carried by the female assembly. The latching ring is configured such that upon rotation of the male and female assemblies relative to the latching ring, portions of the latching ring extend through the slots in the female assembly to engage grooves in the male assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A ring latched coupler, comprising: a male assembly having a plurality of grooves formed therein; a complementary female assembly adapted to receive said male assembly, said female assembly having a plurality of slots formed therein; and a latching ring rotatably carried by said female assembly, a fixed working surface of said latching ring being configured such that upon relative rotation of said male and female assemblies and said ring, said fixed working surface extends through said slots of said female assembly to engage said grooves of said male assembly so as to effect engagement with said male assembly; said coupler additionally comprising a plurality of stop pins carried by said female assembly for limiting the rotation of said latching ring, and said latching ring including a plurality of notches for enabling said latching ring to be held stationary during rotation of said male and female assemblies. 2. The coupler of claim 1, additionally comprising a plurality of locking buttons carried by said female coupling assembly for engaging said notches of said latching ring. 3. A ring latched coupler, comprising: a male assembly having a plurality of grooves formed therein; a complementary female assembly adapted to receive said male assembly, said female assembly having a plurality of slots formed therein; and a latching ring rotatably carried by said female assembly, a fixed working surface of said latching ring being configured such that upon relative rotation of said male and female assemblies and said ring, said fixed working surface extends through said slots of said female assembly to engage said grooves of said male assembly so as to effect engagement with said male assembly; wherein said female assembly includes a base carrying a member which extends substantially vertically from said base, said vertical member being substantially triangularly-shaped and having one of said plurality of slots respectively formed in each point of the triangle; and further wherein said male assembly includes a protruding triangularly-shaped member having one of said plurality of grooves respectively formed in each point of the triangle, said triangularly-shaped member adapted to received by said vertically extending member of said female assembly. 