An automated facility for the large-scale production of superconducting magnets for use in a particle accelerator. Components of the automated facility include: a superconducting coil winding machine; a coil form and cure press apparatus; a coil collaring press; collar pack assembly apparatus; yoke half stacking apparatus; a cold mass assembly station; and a final assembly station. The facility can produce, on an economical manufacturing basis, magnets made of superconducting material for use in the ring of the particle accelerator. Each of the components is under the control of a programmable controller for operation having repeatable accuracy. All of the elements which are combined to form the superconducting magnet are thus manufactured with the dimensional precision required to produce a known, uniform magnetic field within the accelerator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for assembling a superconducting magnet, said apparatus comprising: means for winding a coil of superconducting material; means for pressing and curing said coil made of superconducting material; means for assembling a collaring assembly to secure the superconducting coil about a tubular member; means for forming and pressing a collared coil for the superconducting magnet; means for constructing a yoke assembly for the superconducting material; and means for assembling a cold mass for the superconducting magnet. 2. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the superconducting material comprises a wire having superconducting properties, which has wrapped thereon tape having a heat-curable resin impregnated therewith. 3. The apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said means for winding a coil of superconducting material comprises: a winding mandrel; an adjustable support for receiving a spool of superconducting material, the spool having a vertical axis; means for translating the spool of superconducting material in a generally oval path around the winding mandrel so that the superconducting material is de-reeled from the spool, in order to wind the superconducting material onto the mandrel such that a coil of superconducting material is formed; means for guiding the superconducting material from the spool so as to deliver the material to the winding mandrel on a plane perpendicular to the vertical axis of the spool; means for rotating the winding mandrel along its longitudinal axis; and means for clamping the superconducting material against the winding mandrel as the material is wound thereon. 4. The apparatus as in claim 3, further comprising a programmable controller operably associated with said winding means for controlling the operation thereof. 5. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for pressing and curing said coil made of superconductor material comprises: press means for forming and curing the coil, said press means comprising: a. a lower platen for receiving the winding mandrel; b. an upper platen cure mold having a cavity therein for receiving the coil on the winding mandrel; c. menas for aligning the winding mandrel with respect to the upper platen cure mold; mandrel with respect to the lower platen and into and out of the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; e. sensing means for determining when the coil and the winding mandrel have seated in the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; f. means for aligning the coil on the winding mandrel with respect to the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; g. means for raising and lowering the lower platen with respect to the upper platen cure mold, and for applying pressure to the coil on the winding mandrel when the lower platen has been raised into contact with the winding mandrel so as to form the coil into a predetermined shape; and h. means for heating the coil on the winding mandrel, when within the cavity of the upper platen cure mold, to a predetermined temperature; and a conveyor for moving the winding mandrel into and out of said press means, the conveyor having means for aligning the winding mandrel with respect to said press means. 6. The apparatus as in claim 5, further comprising a programmable controller for automatically controlling the operation of said press means. 7. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for assembling collar packs for the superconducting magnet comprises: means for providing a quantity of generally C-shaped laminations, each of said C-shaped laminations being of greater thickness in the middle portion than at the ends; means for stacking a predetermined amount of said laminations to form a comb-shaped stack of laminations; means for inserting a pin through said stack of laminations; means for compressing said stack of laminations to a predetermined height; and means for machining the pin at both ends so as to prevent the pin from being removed from said stack of laminations, whereby a collar pack is assembled. 8. The apparatus as in claim 7, further comprising a programmable controller for automatically controlling the operation of said collar pack assembly means. 9. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for constructing a yoke assembly for the superconducting magnet comprises: means for providing a quantity of generally C-platen shaped laminations, each of said C-shaped laminations having a pair of holes therein; means for stacking a predetermined amount of said laminations such that said holes of said laminations are generally concentric; means for inserting a pair of locking members through said holes within said laminations; means for compressing said laminations to a predetermined length; and means for securing said laminations together so as to prevent their separation, whereby a yoke assembly is constructed. 10. The apparatus as in claim 9, further comprising a programmable controller for automatically controlling the operation of said yoke assembly means. 11. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for forming and pressing a collared coil for the superconducting magnet comprises: a lower pressing die adapted to receive a collared coil pre-assembly, the collared coil pre-assembly further comprising a. a plurality of comb-shaped collar packs arranged so as to form an elongated, lower collaring member; b. a first outer coil disposed adjacent the lower collaring member; c. a first inner coil disposed adjacent the first outer coil; d. an elongated tubular member disposed adjacent the first inner coil; e. a second inner coil disposed adjacent the tubular member; f. a second outer coil disposed adjacent the second inner coil; and g. a second plurality of comb-shaped collar packs disposed adjacent the second outer coil so as to form an elongated, upper collaring member, thereby forming a collared coil pre-assembly; an upper pressing die adapted to be placed over said upper collaring member; means for pressing said upper and lower pressing dies together, such that said comb-shaped upper and lower collaring members are tightly enmeshed together; and means for securing said upper and lower collaring assemblies together, whereby a collared coil subassembly is provided. 12. The apparatus as in claim 11, further comprising a programmable controller for automatically controlling the operation of said forming and pressing means. 13. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for assembling a cold mass for use in the superconducting magnet, comprises: means for receiving a first arcuately-shaped half shell having a first U-shaped half yoke assembly and a collared coil subassembly therein, the collared coil subassembly being made of superconducting material; means for inserting a pair of generally T-shaped alignment strips into the first half yoke assembly, on either side thereof and rotated 90 so as to be disposed between the first yoke assembly and the first half shell such that the bases of the T of said alignment strips are oriented radially outward, the bases of said alignment strips having a groove on the outer surface thereof; means for positioning a second U-shaped half yoke assembly onto the collared coil subassembly; means for placing a second arcuately-shaped half shell over the second yoke half assembly and said alignment strips such that the bases of the T of each of said alignment strips are disposed between said first and second half shells; means for clamping the second half shell in position with respect to the first half shell; means for aligning said grooves of said alignment strips along the longitudinal length thereof, such that said grooves are generally parallel; and means for longitudinally welding said first and second half shells to said alignment strips, whereby a cold mass assembly for a superconducting magnet is assembled. 14. The apparatus as in claim 13, further comprising a programmable controller for automatically controlling the operation of said cold mass assembly means. 15. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein each of said means is arranged adjacent to each other so as to provide an integrated manufacturing facility. 16. An automated apparatus for assembling a superconducting magnet, said apparatus comprising: means for winding a coil of superconducting material; means for pressing and curing said coil made of superconducting material, said pressing and curing means disposed adjacent said winding means; means for assembling a collaring assembly to secure the superconducting magnet, said collar assembly means disposed adjacent said pressing and curing means; means for forming and pressing a collared coil for the superconducting magnet, said forming and pressing means disposed adjacent said collaring means and said pressing and curing means; means for constructing a yoke assembly for the superconducting magnet, said yoke assembly means disposed adjacent said forming and pressing means; means for assembling a cold mass for the superconducting magnet, said cold mass assembly means disposed adjacent said yoke assembly means and said forming and pressing means; means for assembling the cold mass within a pressure vessel, said pressure vessel assembly means disposed adjacent said cold mass assembly means; and a computer controller for controlling the assembly of the superconducting magnet. 