A device for exchanging simple tools that do not need utility service is adapted to facilitate coupling one such tool to, and uncoupling it from, a movable robotic arm. The device comprises an attaching member attachable to the tool, a supporting member connected to the arm and having an open slot therein and a recessed upper surface adjacent to the slot, and a retaining member movably mounted to the arm above the supporting member and spring-biased toward the supporting member slot and upper surface. The attaching member, attached to the tool, is received by the open slot, supported by the recessed upper surface, and yieldably retained there by the spring-biased retaining member during use. The attaching member is then withdrawn from the slot, upper surface, and retaining member, and returned to a storage rack located nearby.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for exchanging tools of a simple type not requiring utility service, said device being adapted to facilitate coupling one such tool to, and uncoupling it from, a movable robotic arm, said device comprising: a tool attaching member having a body portion attachable at a lower end thereof to the tool and a head portion wider than said body portion at an upper end thereof; a tool supporting member connected at one end thereof to the arm, said supporting member having a slot therethrough open at an opposite end thereof and an upper surface adjacent to said slot, said slot being wider than said attaching member body portion but narrower than said head portion so as to receive said body portion therein with said head portion disposed thereabove for support by said adjacent upper surface; a tool retaining member movably mounted to the arm above said supporting member, said retaining member including a stem extending longitudinally between top and bottom ends thereof and a flange extending transversely to said stem at said bottom end in overlying relation to said supporting member slot and upper surface, said retaining member being movable longitudinally toward and away from said slot and upper surface; and means for resiliently biasing said retaining member toward said supporting member slot and upper surface, to thereby urge said retaining member flange into yieldable engagement with said attaching member head portion when said head portion is supported by said upper surface, and thus yieldably retain said attaching member on said supporting member. 2. The device claimed in claim 1 wherein said tool attaching member includes means for preventing rotation thereof relative to said tool supporting member when said attaching member body portion is received in said supporting member slot. 3. The device claimed in claim 2 wherein said rotation preventing means includes opposing flat surfaces on said body portion that closely confront opposing sides of said slot. 4. The device claimed in claim 1 wherein said tool attaching member head portion includes a substantially flat top surface and a beveled perimetric surface extending from said top surface toward said attaching member body portion. 5. The device claimed in claim 4 wherein said tool supporting member slot extends inwardly from said supporting member opposite end to a closed end of said slot, and wherein said supporting member upper surface includes a recessed portion thereof adjacent to said slot closed end, said recessed portion having a beveled surface complemental to said perimetric surface of said attaching member head portion, so as to receive said head portion in mating relation thereto and thus provide seated support of said head portion when said attaching member body portion is fully received in said slot. 6. The device claimed in claim 1 wherein said tool retaining member stem is longitudinally aligned with said tool supporting member opposite end, in substantially perpendicular relation to said supporting member upper surface, and wherein said retaining member flange extends radially from said stem bottom end over an area surrounding said supporting member opposite end, including said slot and upper surface, in substantially parallel relation to said upper surface. 7. The device claimed in claim 6 wherein said biasing means includes a compression spring resiliently urging said retaining member flange toward said area surrounding said supporting member opposite end. 