A radioisotope production facility (12) produces radioisotopes having application to Positron Emission Tomography. The radioisotopes produced include .sup.18 F, .sup.13 N, .sup.15 O, and .sup.11 C, and are produced by irradiating a selected target material (40) with a high energy .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam accelerated in a radio frequency quadruple (RFQ) linear accelerator (34). The facility includes, in addition to the RFQ linear accelerator and the selected target, a source of .sup.3 He.sup.++ ions (30), low energy transport means (32) for focusing the .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam into the RFQ linear accelerator, and a high energy transport means (36) for directing the accelerated .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam at the selected target. Further included is a target subsystem (16) that holds the target, automatically prepares precursors containing the .sup.18 F, .sup.13 N, .sup.15 O, and .sup.11 C radioisotopes, and an automated radiopharmaceutical subsystem (22) that prepares suitable radiopharmaceuticals from the desired precursors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for producing radionuclides for use with positron emission tomography (PET), said system comprising: a source of ions for producing a .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam at a low energy; radio frequency quadrupole (RFQ) accelerator means for accelerating said .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam to an energy level of about 8 MeV; and a target system having a selected target compound therein irradiated with said accelerated .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam to produce at least one radionuclide having application to PET. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said desired radionuclide belongs to the group comprising .sup.13 F, .sup.13 N, .sup.15 O, and .sup.11 C. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said ion source, beam transport means, RFQ accelerator, and target system collectively weigh no more than one ton. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said ion source, beam transport means, RFQ accelerator, and target system are mounted for operation within a movable compartment, such as a trailer, whereby said entire system is transportable. 5. The system of claim 1 further including: low energy beam transport means for coupling the .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam from said source of ions to said RFQ accelerator; and high energy transport means for directing the accelerated .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam from said RFQ accelerator to said target system. 6. The system of claim 5 further including beam dump means selectively coupled to said high energy transport means, whereby the accelerated .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam can be selectively dumped away from said target system. 7. The system of claim 1 further including cooling means for removing heat from said source of ions and said RFQ accelerator. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said cooling means maintains the temperature of said RFQ accelerator to within one degree Centigrade of a specified operating temperature. 9. The system of claim 1 further including vacuum means coupled to said RFQ accelerator means for maintaining a vacuum around said RFQ of up to 10.sup.-6 Torr. 10. The system of claim 1 further including operator means for controlling the operation of said system, said operator means providing a push-button operator interface that selects one of three operating states for the system: a standby state, a ready state, and a run state. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein said target system comprises a windowless target system, said windowless target system including a long, narrow tube connecting the high energy end of said RFQ accelerator means to said selected target compound and a vacuum system means for continuously pumping said tube with a vacuum pump. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said windowless target system further includes pulsed aperture means near the target end of said tube for opening and closing said tube in phase with the delivery of said high energy beam from said RFQ accelerator means. 13. A method for producing a radiopharmaceutical suitable for use with a positron emission tomography (PET) system, said method comprising the steps of: (a) accelerating a beam of .sup.3 He.sup.++ ions with a RFQ accelerator to a energy level of about 8 MeV; (b) irradiating a target compound with the accelerated .sup.3 He.sup.++ beam to produce at least one radionuclide having application to PET; (c) processing the radionuclide obtained in step (b) to produce a desired precursor containing said radionuclide; and (d) preparing a suitable radiopharmaceutical containing said precursor. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein step (a) comprises: activating a source of .sup.3 He.sup.++ ions to produce a low energy beam of .sup.3 He.sup.++ ions; transporting said low energy beam of .sup.3 He.sup.++ ions to a radio frequency quadrupole (RFQ) accelerator; and accelerating said low energy beam in said RFQ accelerator to said energy level of about 8 MeV. 