An apparatus and method for control of stiffness and damping in a flexible composite structure by the application of an electric field to an electrophoretic fluid forming part of the structure. The structure includes spaced, parallel, flexible layers of material which include confronting electrodes. The electrophoretic fluid is capable of separating into particle-rich and particle-deficient phases by electrophoresis and operates in surface contact with the layers. An electrically nonconductive material having raised surface areas and spaces between the surface areas is associated with one or more of the layers. When a voltage is applied between the layers in a first direction, the particle-rich phase of the fluid collects on one of the layers and also makes contact with the spaces and the raised surface areas of the material associated with the other layer thereby engaging or locking the layers together to increase the shear strength of the layers and thus the complex stiffness of the structure. When the voltage potential is applied in the opposite direction, the particle-rich phase migrates to the other layer and collects in the spaces between the raised surfaces of the material, thereby disengaging the layers to decrease their shear strength and thus the stiffness of the structure. The structure may be configured as a panel, plate, or beam, in association with a variety of mechanical systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlling the transmission of force between conductive layers of a flexible, composite structure to determine its stiffness characteristics, said apparatus comprising at least two of said layers disposed in a spaced relationship, means for supporting said layers in said spaced relationship, an electrophoretic fluid disposed in a space between said layers for transmitting force between first and second ones of said layers in directions parallel to said layers and being capable of separating into a particle-rich phase and a particle-deficient phase in the presence of an electric field, means for applying an electric field between said layers and to said fluid to separate said fluid into said particle-rich phase and said particle-deficient phase, said particle-rich phase migrating to one or the other of said layers depending on the direction of application of said electric field, means for forming a plurality of spaced and electrically insulating raised surfaces on one of said layers so that during application of said electric field in one direction said particle-rich phase collects on the other of said layers and extends between said other layer and said spaced raised surfaces to transmit a selected force between said layers, and during application of said electric field in the other direction, said particle-rich phase of said fluid migrates to said one layer and collects in spaces between said raised surfaces to substantially reduce said force transmission. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein upon application of said electric field in said one direction said particle-rich phase collected on said other layer lodges in at least an outer portion of said spaces between said raised surfaces for transmitting said force between said layers. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for forming a plurality of spaced raised surfaces comprises an electrically nonconductive material. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for forming a plurality of spaced raised surfaces comprises a plurality of rib members. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said rib members are oriented perpendicular to the direction of fluid shear during parallel movement of said layers relative to each other. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for forming a plurality of spaced raised surfaces comprises a grid. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for forming a plurality of spaced raised surfaces comprises an insulating material having a plurality of grooves. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said means for forming a plurality of spaced raised surfaces comprises an insulating material having a plurality of openings. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said openings are circular in shape. 10. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein said openings are irregular in shape. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said force transmission may be varied in proportion to the strength of said electric field applied to said electrophoretic fluid. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said composite structure comprises at least a portion of the arm of a robot manipulator. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said composite structure comprises the fingers of a robot manipulator. 14. An apparatus for controlling the transmission of force between conductive layers of a flexible, composite structure to determine its stiffness characteristics, said apparatus comprising at least two of said layers disposed in a spaced relationship, at least one partition disposed in a spaced relationship between said layers, means for supporting said layers and said partition in said spaced relationship, an electrophoretic fluid disposed in spaces between said partition and each of said layers for transmitting force between said partition and one or both of said layers in directions parallel to said layers, said fluid capable of being separated into a particle-rich phase and a particle-deficient phase in the presence of an electric field, means for applying an electric field to said fluid between said partition and one or both of said layers to separate said fluid into said particle-rich phase and said particle-deficient phase, said particle-rich phase migrating to one or the other of said partition and one or both of said layers depending on the direction of application of said electric field, means for forming a plurality of spaced and electrically insulating raised surfaces on both sides of said partition so that during application of said electric field in one direction said particle-rich phase collects on one or both of said layers and extends between one or both of said layers and said spaced raised surfaces on one or both of said layers to transmit a predetermined force between said partition and one or both of said layers, and during application of said electric field in the other direction, said particle-rich phase of said fluid migrates to one or both sides of said partition and collects in spaces between said raised surfaces to substantially reduce said force transmission between said partition and one or both of said layers. 15. The apparatus according to claim 14 comprising multiple partitions disposed respectively between adjacent pairs of said layers for forming a composite structure having multiple, independently controllable laminae. 16. The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said means forming a plurality of spaced raised surfaces comprise a plurality of rib members. 17. The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein said means forming a plurality of spaced raised surfaces comprises an insulating material having a plurality of openings. 18. A method for controlling the stiffness of a composite structure having spaced, parallel conductive layers, said method comprising the steps of placing an insulating material having spaced raised surfaces on at least one of said layers, confining an electrophoretic fluid in a space between said layers, said fluid being separatable into particle-rich and particle-deficient phases in the presence of an electric field, and applying an electric field to said fluid a first direction for causing said particle-rich phase to collect on one of said layers and engage the spaced raised surfaces of another of said layers, thereby coupling said layers and increasing the stiffness of said structure 19. The method according to claim 18 further comprising the step of applying an electric field to said fluid between said layers in a second direction for causing said particle-rich phase to collect in the spaces between said raised surfaces on the other of said layers leaving said particle-deficient phase in contact with said one layer, thereby decoupling said layers and decreasing the stiffness of said structure. 