An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of semipermeable and at least partially thermoplastic fabric material is disclosed as having a support to position the material for cutting and sealing, a vacuum system to secure the material to the support to immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed, an ultrasonic cutter to cut the material and to seal cut edges to prevent raveling thereof, and a guide to direct the cutter to cut the material in a desired configuration. The apparatus may be particularly adapted to cut and seal cut edges of automotive safety air bag material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support to position the material for cutting and sealing; vacuum means for creating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support and immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; and cutting means for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof, the cutting means being manually positionable and including a cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn, the horn having a cutting tip, the cutter also having a guide member attached thereto, the guide member and the cutting tip having collinear axes. 2. The apparatus as defined by claim 1, wherein the cutting means further includes an anvil attached thereto in effective apposition to the cutting tip. 3. The apparatus as defined by claim 2, wherein the anvil and the guide member form one integral part. 4. The apparatus as defined by claim 3, wherein the support is a substantially flat, generally horizontal platform. 5. The apparatus as defined by claim 4, wherein the platform includes guiding means for cooperating with the guide member attached to the cutter to guide the cutter in a desired path. 6. The apparatus as defined by claim 5, wherein the platform defines a channel formed therein to receive the guide member attached to the cutter to guide the cutter in a desired path. 7. The apparatus as defined by claim 4, wherein the platform defines a plurality of apertures formed therein, the apertures being connected to a source of vacuum to secure material to the platform to immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed. 8. The apparatus as defined by claim 7 further comprising securing vacuum controlling means for applying vacuum to the apertures whenever material is being cut and sealed. 9. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support including a substantially flat, generally horizontal platform, to position the material for cutting and sealing; vacuum means for creating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support and immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; a cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn with a cutting tip for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof; a robotic cutting arm for automatically positioning the cutter, the arm having three degrees of freedom in which to guide the cutter along a two-dimensional cutting path; cutting arm controlling means for controlling the movement of the robotic cutting arm; and pickup means for temporarily coupling the robotic cutting arm to the portion cut from the material to facilitate removing the latter from the platform. 10. The apparatus as defined by claim 9, wherein the pickup means includes: at least one pickup member positionable by the robotic cutting arm against the portion cut from the material, the at least one pickup member being connected to a source of vacuum, the vacuum being communicated through an orifice in the pickup member to hold the portion cut from the material against the pickup member; and pickup controlling means for controlling the application of vacuum to the pickup member. 11. The apparatus as defined by claim 10, further including a bin for storing cut portions of material deposited in the bin by the pickup means. 12. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support including a substantially flat, generally horizontal platform, to position the material for cutting and sealing; vacuum means for creating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support nd immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; a cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn with a cutting tip for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof; a robotic cutting arm for automatically positioning the cutter, the arm having three degrees of freedom in which to guide the cutter along a two-dimensional cutting path; cutting arm controlling means for controlling the movement of the robotic cutting arm; and a configured anvil disposed on the platform, the anvil having a shape coincident with a path traced by the cutting tip when cutting material to a desired configuration, a portion of the anvil being in effective apposition to the cutting tip whenever the cutting tip is engaged in cutting. 13. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support including a substantially flat, generally horizontal platform, to position the material for cutting and sealing; vacuum means for creating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support and immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; a cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn with a cutting tip for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof; a robotic cutting arm for automatically positioning the cutter, the arm having three degrees of freedom in which to guide the cutter along a two-dimensional cutting path; cutting arm controlling means for controlling the movement of the robotic cutting arm; and an anvil attached thereto in effective apposition to the cutting tip. 14. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support including a substantially flat, generally horizontal platform, to position the material for cutting and sealing; vacuum means for creating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support and immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; a cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn with a cutting tip for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof; a cutter positioning mechanism including: longitudinal positioning means for horizontally moving the cutter along a longitudinal axis to provide longitudinal components of motion to the cutter; lateral positioning means for horizontally moving the cutter along a lateral axis to provide lateral components of motion to the cutter, the lateral axis being at right angles to the longitudinal axis; and vertical positioning means for vertically moving the cutter into engagement with material to be cut and out of engagement with the material when cutting has been completed; the apparatus further including a configured anvil disposed on the platform, the anvil having a shape coincident with a path traced by the cutting tip when cutting material to a desired configuration, a portion of the anvil being in effective apposition to the cutting tip whenever the cutting tip in engaged in cutting. 15. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support including a substantially flat, generally horizontal platform, to position the material for cutting and sealing; vacuum means for crating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support and immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; a cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn with a cutting tip for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof; a cutter positioning mechanism including: longitudinal positioning means for horizontally moving the cutter along a longitudinal axis to provide longitudinal components of motion to the cutter; lateral positioning means for horizontally moving the cutter along a lateral axis to provide lateral components of motion to the cutter, the lateral axis being at right angles to the longitudinal axis; and vertical positioning means for vertically moving the cutter into engagement with material to be cut and out of engagement with the material when cutting has been completed; wherein the cutter further includes an anvil attached thereto in effective apposition to the cutting tip. 16. The apparatus as defined by claim 12, 13, 14 or 15, further including a robotic stacking arm having pickup means for temporarily coupling the robotic stacking arm to the portion cut from the material to facilitate removal, from the platform, of the portion cut from the material. 17. The apparatus as defined by claim 16, wherein the pickup means includes: at least one pickup member positionable by the robotic stacking arm against the portion cut from the material, the at least one pickup member being connected to a source of vacuum, the vacuum being communicated through an orifice in the pickup member to hold the portion cut from the material against the pickup member; and vacuum controlling means for controlling the application of vacuum to the pickup member. 18. The apparatus as defined by claim 17, further including a bin for storing cut portions of material deposited in the bin by the pickup means. 19. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support to position the material for cutting and sealing, the support being a substantially flat, generally horizontal platform; vacuum means for creating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support and immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; and cutting means for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof, the cutting means including: at least one anvil extending above the surface of the platform and being configured to outline at least one portion to be cut from the material; and a cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn, the horn forming a substantially flat plate configured and positioned to simultaneously press material disposed between the plate and the anvil against all portions of the raised anvil to cut and seal the material. 20. The apparatus as defined by claim 19, further including a cutter controlling means for controlling the movement of the cutter. 21. The apparatus as defined by claim 20, further including a robotic stacking arm having a pickup means for temporarily coupling the robotic stacking arm to the portion cut from the material to facilitate removing the latter from the platform. 22. The apparatus as defined by claim 21, wherein the pickup means includes: at least one pickup member positionable by the robotic stacking arm against the portion cut from the material, the at least one pickup member being connected to a source of vacuum, the vacuum being communicated through an orifice in the pickup member to hold the portion cut from the material against the pickup member; and pickup controlling means for controlling the movement of the robotic stacking arm and for controlling the application of vacuum to the pickup member to remove the portion cut from the material from the platform. 23. The apparatus as defined by claim 22, further including a bin for storing cut portions of material deposited in the bin by the pickup means. 24. An apparatus for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, the material being at least partially thermoplastic and being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, the apparatus comprising: a support to position the material for cutting and sealing; vacuum means for creating a negative pressure between the material and the support to secure the material to the support and immobilize the material while the latter is being cut and sealed; and cutting means for ultrasonically cutting the material and sealing the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof, a supply reel rotatably mounted proximate a first end of the support to store a quantity of material rolled on the supply reel and to permit material to be pulled from the supply reel for positioning and cutting; a takeup reel rotatably mounted proximate a second end of the support to receive and store material remaining after a desired portion has been cut therefrom; a motor to rotate the takeup reel to pull uncut material from the supply reel, to position the uncut material on the support, and to wind material remaining onto the takeup reel for storage; motor controlling means for initiating and terminating the operation of the motor; an anvil disposed between the supply reel and the support; and at least one cutter having an ultrasonically driven horn disposed to impinge the anvil to cut and seal cut edges of material being pulled from the supply reel by the takeup reel to cut the material into a desired number of strips of predetermined widths before the material is positioned on the support. 25. The apparatus as defined by claim 24, wherein the anvil is an elongate cylinder having a longitudinal axis, the anvil being rotatable about the axis and being disposed between the supply reel and the support, the axis being substantially horizontal and at right angles to the direction of movement of the material between the supply reel and the takeup reel. 26. The apparatus as defined by claim 6, 12, 13, 14, 15, 19 or 25, further including feeding means for feeding material onto the support to position the material for cutting. 27. The apparatus as defined by claim 26, wherein the feeding means comprises: a supply reel rotatably mounted proximate a first end of the support to store a quantity of material rolled on the supply reel and to permit material to be pulled from the supply reel for positioning and cutting; a takeup reel rotatably mounted proximate a second end of the support to receive and store material remaining after a desired portion has been cut therefrom; and drive means for rotating the takeup reel to pull uncut material from the supply reel, to position the uncut material on the support, and to wind material remaining onto the takeup reel for storage. 28. The apparatus as defined by claim 27, wherein the drive means includes: a motor to rotate the takeup reel; and motor controlling means for initiating and terminating the operation of the motor. 29. The apparatus as defined by claim 14, 15 or 25, further including a robotic stacking arm having pickup means for temporarily coupling the robotic stacking arm tot he portion cut from the material to facilitate removing the latter from the platform. 30. The apparatus as defined by claim 29, wherein the pickup means includes: at least one pickup member positionable by the robotic stacking arm against the portion cut from the material, the at least one pickup member being connected to a source of vacuum, the vacuum being communicated through an orifice in the pickup member to hold the portion cut from the material against the pickup member; and pickup controlling means for controlling the movement of the robotic stacking arm and for controlling the application of vacuum to the pickup member to remove the portion cut from the material from the platform. 31. The apparatus as defined by claim 30, further including a bin for storing cut portions of material deposited in the bin by the pickup means. 32. The apparatus as defined by claim 25, wherein the at least one cutter is adjustable along the elongate anvil in the direction of the axis of the anvil. 33. A method for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material, such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, with an ultrasonic cutter having a cutting tip, the material being at least partially thermoplastic, being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, and being disposed for cutting and sealing atop a platform, the method comprising the steps of: (a) supporting the material on the platform in position for cutting and sealing; (b) securing the material to the platform by applying a negative pressure between the material and the platform; (c) providing a robotic arm for automatically positioning the cutter, the arm having three degrees of freedom in which to guide the cutter along a two-dimensional cutting path; (d) providing cutting arm controlling means for controlling the movement of the robotic cutting arm; (e) providing an anvil disposed in apposition to the cutting tip; (f) positioning the cutter to sandwich the material between the cutting tip of the cutter and the anvil; (g) energizing the cutter so that the cutting tip vibrates at an ultrasonic frequency against the anvil, cutting the material therebetween and heating it sufficiently to melt thermoplastic material in the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof; and (h) guiding, with the control means, the cutter along a defined path in the material while cutting and sealing the cut edges; 34. The method as defined by claim 33, further including the step of removing the portion cut from the material. 35. A system for cutting and sealing the cut edges of fabric material, such as that used to manufacture automotive safety air bags, with an ultrasonic cutter having a cutting tip, the cutting tip being positionable in apposition to an anvil, the material being at least partially thermoplastic, being semipermeable to the flow of fluids therethrough, and being disposed for cutting and sealing atop a platform, the system comprising: means for supporting the material on the platform in position for cutting and sealing; means for securing the material to the platform by applying a negative pressure between the material and the platform; a robotic arm for automatically positioning the cutter, the arm having three degrees of freedom in which to guide the cutter along a two-dimensional cutting path; an anvil disposed in apposition to the cutting tip; means for positioning the cutter to sandwich the material between the cutting tip of the cutter and the anvil; means for energizing the cutter so that the cutting tip vibrates at an ultrasonic frequency against the anvil, cutting the material therebetween and heating it sufficiently to melt thermoplastic material in the cut edges to prevent raveling thereof; and means for guiding the cutter along a defined path while cutting and sealing the material. 36. The system as defined by claim 35, further including means for removing the portion cut from the material. 