A high-performance single-crystal silicon tactile imaging array organized in a X-Y matrix of capacitor elements. Metallic column lines are formed on a glass support substrate, while the row lines are formed from a contiguous chain of doubly-supported bridge structures, with one such structure for each sensing element. All of the bridge structures are simultaneously fabricated from a single-crystal silicon semiconductor wafer using a two-step boron diffusion process, followed by a silicon-to-glass electrostatic bonding step and subsequent unmasked wafer dissolution. Each bridge structure has a thick center plate for the sense capacitor supported by thinner beams connected to adjacent row single-crystal silicon support rails bonded to the glass substrate. The force sensitivity and maximum operating range of the tactile imager can be selected over a very wide range by appropriately setting the dimensions of these thinner support beams. The resulting imager is rugged, of high resolution and high density, and is inherently stable over time and temperature.
Claims We claim: 1. A miniature tactile imaging array having a plurality of adjustable parallel plate capacitors each of which is responsive to force applied to one plate thereof, the array comprising: a support substrate having an insulating surface; at least first and second electrically conductive stripes spaced from one another and disposed on the insulating surface and constituting a set of address lines; a first plurality of electrically conductive plates spaced from one another and electrically connected to the first stripe, each such plate forming one plate of a distinct one of the adjustable capacitors; a second plurality of electrically conductive plates spaced from one another and electrically connected to the second stripe, each such plate forming one plate of a distinct one of the adjustable capacitors; and first and second pluralities of force-sensitive bridge structures made from a common wafer of single-crystal semiconductor material, with the first and second pluralities of bridge structures being electrically isolated from one another and with the bridge structures within each such plurality of bridge structures being electrically interconnected to one another and constituting at least part of one line of a set of output lines, said output lines being formed so as to cross the set of first address lines at an angle, each such bridge structure including a central plate portion, a pair of flexible beam portions thinner than the central plate portion and connected to, supporting and extending outwardly from opposite sides of the central plate portion, and a pair of side support portions each permanently attached to the support substrate and connected to and supporting a distinct one of the beam support portions on a side thereof opposite the central plate portion, the central plate portion and beam portions being positioned and patterned such that the central plate portion is nominally suspended and directly supported a predetermined distance above the insulating surface of the support substrate only by the pair of flexible beam portions, and each such bridge structure being positioned with its central plate portion located above a distinct one of the electrically conductive plates, whereby each such central portion constitutes a second plate of a distinct one of the adjustable capacitors. 2. A tactile imaging array as in claim 1 wherein: the single-crystal semiconductor material is primarily silicon which has been doped so as to be at least moderately electrically conductive. 3. A tactile imaging array as in claim 1, wherein the bridge structures associated with each of the second address lines are contiguous such that the single-crystal semiconductor material extends continuously from near one side of the array to near the opposite side of the array without interruption. 4. A tactile imaging array as in claim 1, wherein adjacent bridge structures in each second address line share a common side support portion, with one of the beam support portions of each such adjacent bridge structure extending in opposite directions away from side support portion. 5. A tactile imaging array as in claim 1, wherein the first and second address lines are arranged orthogonally with respect to one another, and the first plurality of electrically conductive plates are arranged in line with respect to the first electrically conductive stripe and the second plurality of electrically conductive plates are arranged in line with respect to the second electrically conductive stripe. 6. A tactile imaging array as in claim 1, wherein: the bridge structure for each sensor is substantially identical; the central plate portion has first and second surfaces parallel to the electrically conductive plate disposed thereunder, with the first surface being closer to the conductive plate; the second surface extends to a height greater than the height of all rim support portions of any adjacent sensor; and the beam support portions of each bridge structure are generally planar and arranged in a common plane. 7. A tactile imaging array as in claim 6, wherein on at least the first surface of each central plate portion there is disposed a thin layer of insulating material extending over an area at least coextensive with the adjacent electrically conductive plate and nominally spaced therefrom such that the layer of insulating material protects against undesired short circuit conditions which would otherwise occur between the central plate portion and the electrically conductive plate upon application of excessive force to the bridge portion. 8. A tactile imaging array as in claim 1, further comprising a thin continuous film of flexible material disposed over all of the bridge structures of the array and bonded to the insulating surface of the support substrate, thereby helping to prevent entry of foreign matter into gaps between the central plate portions and the electrically conductive plates immediately adjacent thereto. 9. A miniature tactile sensor structure made at least in part from single-crystal semiconductor material and including therein a parallel plate capacitor whose capacitance varies generally in accordance with the magnitude of a mechanical force applied thereto, comprising: a support substrate having at least one generally flat surface upon which an electrically conductive pad is formed, the pad constituting one plate of the capacitor; and a force-sensing bridge structure made from a unitary piece of patterned single-crystal semiconductor material and having a pair of generally elongated support rails spaced apart from one another permanently mounted to the support substrate, having a predetermined first height, a relatively thick plate centrally located between the pair of support rails, and a pair of flexible relatively thin beams located on opposite sides of and mechanically interconnecting the thick plate to the support rails, thereby allowing the thick plate to move in response to a sufficient mechanical force applied thereto in a direction normal to the surface of the support substrate; the thick plate being spaced apart from the surface of the support substrate, supported by the thin beams and having a second height above the surface of the support substrate greater than the first height, whereby mechanical contact between the bridge structure and a larger object moving generally perpendicular towards the bridge structure occurs first at the thick plate; and the thick plate being unsupported on two sides thereof intermediate the thin support beams and forming the second plate of the capacitor. 10. A tactile sensor structure as in claim 9, wherein the single-crystal semiconductor material is predominantly silicon. 11. A tactile sensor structure as in claim 9, wherein the relatively thick plate is at least moderately electrically conductive and constitutes a second movable plate of the capacitor. 12. A tactile sensor structure as in claim 11, wherein the semiconductor material is doped to render it at least moderately electrically conductive, and the entire bridge structure constitutes a portion of an electrical conductor for transferring electrical charge between the movable plate and an externally located circuit for measuring such transfer of electrical charge. 13. A tactile imaging array as in claim 1, further comprising: at least eight readout lines, a plurality of amplifiers to which the readout lines are electrically connected, and a plurality of multiplexer means disposed between the readout lines and the amplifiers, each such multiplexer means including at least four analog input lines and at least one output line and being for selectively connecting in succession each of its input lines to its output line so that the output of the at least four readout lines from the tactile imaging array is deliverable over the one output line of said multiplexer means to one of the amplifiers. 14. A tactile imaging system as in claim 13, further comprising: an insulating substrate to which the tactile imaging array is bonded, the insulating substrate including thereon electrically conductive traces extending between the imaging array and bonding pads, and wherein each of the multiplexing means is contained within a pretester integrated circuit chip bonded directly to selected bonding pads. 