A method and apparatus for opening the bolt of a fastener, inserting an end cap D-ring, or quality tag. The method and apparatus comprises using a first clamp configured to receive therein a fasteners, a second clamp being configured to engage a latch or bolt of the fasteners, a robot gripper and control means to effect the opening of the fastener, the insertion of an end of a chain into the fastener and the closing of the fastener. The movement of the latch or bolt knob is coordinated with the movement of the fastener such that the forces acting on the bolt knob are substantially parallel to the direction of travel of the bolt in the fastener.
Claims Having described our invention, what we now claim is: 1. In an apparatus for securing fasteners to the ends of a chain or strand which has first and second clamps each adapted to move through at least three degrees of freedom, two in translation and one in rotation and a robot gripper adapted to function in cooperation with the clamps and wherein a fastener is held in one clamp and the bolt knob of the fastener is opened by the other clamp, the improvement which comprises: means to move the first and second clamps through the three degrees of freedom to move the bolt knob, the forces acting on the knob being substantially parallel to the direction of travel of the bolt in the fastener to open the bolt; and means to control the means to move the clamps in communication with said means to move. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to control the clamps includes means to control the clamps such that their axes of rotation are parallel. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means to control the clamps includes means to control the rotation of both clamps to effect opening of the bolt. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the means to control the clamps includes means to rotate one clamp through a greater arc than the other clamp. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the means to rotate includes means to translate one clamp during rotation. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the first clamp holds the fastener and the second clamp engages the bolt knob. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the means to move the second clamp comprises an interceptor system which system includes means to rotate and translate the second clamp. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the interceptor system includes: means to translate the second clamp during rotation. 9. The apparatus of claims 6 or 7 wherein the fastener is a spring ring and the first clamp comprises: two jaws, one of said jaws characterized by a spring ring groove and a recess defined in the edge of the jaw to define a spring ring bolt stop. 10. The apparatus of claims 6 or 8 wherein the means to control includes means to move the robot gripper to insert a fastener secured to the other end of the chain into the opened spring ring. 11. The apparatus of claims 6 or 8 wherein the means to control includes means to counter-rotate of one of said clamps to effect the closing of the fastener. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the clamp to effect the closing is the second clamp. 13. In an apparatus for securing fasteners to the ends of a chain or strand which has first and second clamps each adapted to move through at least three degrees of freedom, two in translation and one in rotation and a robot gripper adapted to function in cooperation with the clamps and wherein a fastener is held in one clamp and a bolt knob of the fastener is opened by the other clamp, the improvement which comprises: means to control the rotation of the first and second clamps to move the bolt knob, the forces acting on the knob being substantially parallel to the direction of travel of the bolt in the fastener to open the bolt wherein one clamp moves through a greater arc than the other clamp and one clamp moves in translation during rotation; and wherein one of said clamps includes two jaws, one of said jaws characterized by a spring ring groove and a recess defined in the edge of the jaw to define a spring ring bolt stop. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the second clamp comprises two jaws, one of said jaws terminating in a finger. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the second clamp is controlled by an interceptor system which includes means to rotate the second clamp through a greater arc than the first clamp. 