A method is described for the separation of metal articles from surplus metal by the use of a laser. The articles may be cast or wrought. Several examples are given of gas turbine engine components being separated from a gating system by the use of a YAG laser. Benefits include lack of heat generation and, therefore, little or no distortion in the article.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for removing surplus metal from a cast or wrought article formed from a metal selected from the group comprising aluminium alloys, titanium alloys, nickel alloys, cobalt alloys and iron alloys, the method comprising the steps of severing said surplus metal from the article in solid pieces by means of a laser beam from a YAG laser and leaving a thickness of residual surplus metal on said article which thickness is greater than the thickness of a heat affected layer remaining after the laser severing step. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the thickness of said residual surplus metal lies in the range from two to fifteen times the thickness of said heat affected layer remaining. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said thickness of residual surplus metal lies in the range from four to ten times said thickness of said heat affected layer remaining. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said thickness of residual surplus metal is not greater than about 1 mm. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein said thickness of residual surplus metal is not greater than about 0.5 mm. 6. A method according to claim 1 further including the step of first removing said article from a cluster of articles by laser means. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said article is manipulated. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said laser cutting means is manipulated. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the outputs of two or more YAG lasers are combined by fibre optic means. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein said article is a turbine component. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein said article and surplus metal is first cut from a cluster of articles by non-laser means. 12. A method according to claim 6 wherein said cluster is manipulated. 13. A method according to claim 6 wherein said laser cutting means is manipulated. 