Fluid to be dispensed is delivered under pressure to a dispensing nozzle by way of an infinitely variable valve which is disposed in sufficiently close proximity to the nozzle that very little fluid pressure drop takes place in the region between the valve and the nozzle. A parameter correlated to the rate of flow of fluid discharged from the nozzle is sensed between the valve and the nozzle to generate a flow rate signal from which a control signal is derived by comparing the flow rate signal with a signal representing a desired rate of flow. Where the nozzle is to be moved relative a workpiece for dispensing fluid material thereon, the latter signal may be derived from a signal correlated to the speed of relative movement between the nozzle and the workpiece such as a tool speed signal from the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of dispensing fluid material, said method comprising the steps of: (a) delivering the fluid under pressure to a valve having a valve inlet and a valve outlet and conducting the fluid from said valve to a nozzle having a nozzle inlet and a nozzle outlet from which said fluid is dispensed, said valve outlet being coupled to said nozzle inlet, said valve outlet and said nozzle inlet being disposed in sufficiently close proximity to one another that very little fluid pressure drop occurs between said valve outlet and said nozzle inlet; (b) sensing, at a location between said valve outlet and said nozzle inlet a parameter other than the position of a flow restricting element, said parameter being correlated to the rate of flow of the fluid discharged from said nozzle outlet and generating a corresponding flow rate signal; (c) generating a control signal from at least said flow rate signal, and (d) operating said valve in accordance with said control signal to substantially infinitely variably modulate the flow of fluid dispensed from said nozzle outlet when said valve is at least partially open and to positively cut off flow when said valve is closed. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said parameter is the pressure of the fluid at said location. 3. A method of dispensing fluid material onto a workpiece, said method comprising the steps of: (a) delivering the fluid under pressure to a valve having a valve inlet and a valve outlet and conducting the fluid from said valve to a nozzle having a nozzle inlet and a nozzle outlet from which said fluid is dispensed, said valve outlet being coupled to said nozzle inlet, said valve outlet and said nozzle inlet being disposed in sufficiently close proximity to one another that very little fluid pressure drop occurs between said valve outlet and said nozzle inlet; (b) sensing, at a location between said valve outlet and said nozzle inlet a parameter correlated to the rate of flow of the fluid discharged from said outlet and generating a corresponding flow rate signal; (c) generating a control signal from at least said flow rate signal and a signal correlated to the speed of relative movement between said nozzle outlet and the workpiece, and (d) operating said valve in accordance with said control signal to substantially infinitely variably modulate the flow of fluid dispensed from said nozzle outlet when said valve is at least partially open and to positively cut off flow when said valve is closed. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said parameter is the pressure of the fluid. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of generating a pressure overrange signal in the event that said pressure exceeds a predetermined limit. 6. The method of claim 3 further comprising the step of linearizing said flow of the fluid with respect to said signal correlated to said speed of movement between the workpiece and said nozzle. 