A tool changer including male and female flanges for connecting end effectors to robot arms. A male flange having a tapered projection is inserted into a tapered opening in a female flange having a rod coaxial with the diameter of the tapered opening. A rotatable locking stud is aligned within an opening in the male projection and includes a slot having locking grooves at its lower end. The stud is rotated through an angle causing the male and female flanges to be drawn together until the cooperating tapers are seated together. A spring retains the flanges in the locked position. A cooperating pin and pin receiving socket respectively provided on the male and female flanges at locations displaced from the male and female tapers are utilized to assure proper orientation between flanges and to prevent rotation of the flanges. Electrical terminals on the male connecting flange engage cooperating conductive terminals on the female flange, providing an electrical path between electrical sources and load utilization devices on the end effectors. Pneumatic couplings are also provided between the male and female flanges. A plurality of removable flange identifying pins are arranged along the circumferential wall of the male flange for electrical engagement with cooperating sensors provided in each tool holder of a tool crib for identifying the type of end effector being stored. A single operator arm is provided in the tool crib for simultaneously moving the operating arms of all of the tools in the tool crib respectively to the engaged and disengaged positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool holder assembly for holding a plurality of tools including a connector assembly fixedly secured to each tool and having a connector means movable between a locked and an unlocked position for connection with apparatus for operating the tool; said tool holder assembly including a plurality of openings, each adapted to hold a tool and its cooperating connector assembly; each connector assembly having a predetermined peripheral shape; each of said openings having a shape generally conforming to the shape of said connector assembly and including means for substantially simultaneously moving the connector means provided in each of said connectors between a locked and an unlocked position. 2. The tool holder assembly of claim 1 wherein each of said connector assemblies is provided with removable identification contacts arranged in spaced intervals about the periphery of each connector assembly; and said holder means being provided with sensors in each of said cavities for engaging said identification contacts to identify the specific connector assembly and associated tool arranged within said cavity. 3. The tool holder assembly of claim 1 wherein each connector assembly is provided with a lever arm movable between a first and a second position for respectively locking and unlocking said connector assembly; said means for simultaneously moving the connector assemblies comprising an elongated rod and means for moving said elongated rod in opposing directions; and means on said rod for engaging said lever arm to move said lever arm respectively to its locked and unlocked positions as said rod is moved in said first and second directions, respectively. 4. The tool holder assembly of claim 3 wherein said means on said rod comprise first and second toggle assemblies arranged at spaced intervals along said elongated rod and having a swingably mounted toggle arm, each having a lever engaging surface; and each of said lever engaging surfaces being spaced apart to form a gap space for receiving a lever arm. 5. The tool holder assembly of claim 4 wherein said toggle arms are each biased in opposing directions; each toggle assembly being further provided with a stop for limiting the movements of one of said toggle arms in the clockwise direction and the other of said toggle arms in the counterclockwise direction to enable each toggle arm to yield when engaged by a lever arm which is positioned outside of said gap space to thereby enable a lever arm to be automatically relocated within said gap space by reciprocating movement of said rod. 6. The tool holder assembly of claim 2 wherein said sensors comprise pogo type sensors normally occupying a first position adjacent the connecting flange and yieldable to move to a second position away from said flange in the presence of an identification contact, the relative positions of said sensors providing a binary code representative of the tool type sensed by said sensor means. 7. The tool holder assembly of claim 3 further comprising cylinder means having a reciprocating piston rod; and yoke means coupling said piston rod to said elongated rod for reciprocating said elongated rod. 8. The tool holder assembly of claim 4 wherein said toggle assemblies are each provided with a body portion having an opening receiving said rod and being slideable therealong; and set screw means for securing said body to said rod in any predetermined position therealong. 9. The tool holder assembly of claim 8 wherein each toggle assembly further comprises means for swingably mounting said toggle arm to said body. 10. The tool holder assembly of claim 9 wherein said body is provided with a projection which serves as a stop; and bias means coupled between said body and said toggle arm and normally urging said toggle arm against said stop. 11. The tool holder assembly of claim 3 further comprising first and second guide means for slideably mounting said elongated rod to enable said elongated rod to experience reciprocating movement along a predetermined axis. 12. The tool holder assembly of claim 11 further comprising bearing means arranged in said guide means to facilitate sliding movement of said elongated rod. 13. The tool holder assembly of claim 1 further comprising a mounting plate having a plurality of U-shaped slots along one side thereof, each slot being adapted to receive and support a connector. 14. The tool holder assembly of claim 13 wherein said connector is provided with a recess having detent receiving means; each of said U-shaped slots having detent means snapped fittingly received by said detent receiving means when a connector is properly positioned within a U-shaped slot. 15. The tool holder assembly of claim 14 wherein said connector has a generally cylindrical-shaped periphery, said recess comprising a substantially circular recess extending about said periphery; and the retainer plates associated with said U-shaped slot extending into said recess for centering said connector within the associated U-shaped slot and preventing linear movement of a connector along its longitudinal axis. 16. The tool holder assembly of claim 15 wherein said recess is provided with flats on opposite diametric sides thereof, each of said flats having one of said receiving means therein; said detent means each being mounted along one of said retainer plates. 17. The tool holder assembly of claim 16 wherein each retainer plate is provided with an opening; each detent means comprising bias means mounted in said opening and having a detent ball button mounted upon said bias means whereby said bias means urges said detent ball button toward said recess. 18. The tool holder assembly of claim 17 wherein said detent receiving means each comprises a dimple. 19. The tool holder assembly of claim 13 further comprising retainer plates arranged on opposite sides of each of said U-shaped slots, bias means resiliently mounting each retainer plate to allow each retainer plate to experience some vertical displacement up or down to accommodate for vertical misalignment of a connector being inserted into a U-shaped slot. 20. The tool holder assembly of claim 14 further comprising means for providing an electrical indication when a connector is properly positioned within a U-shaped slot. 21. The tool holder assembly of claim 20 wherein said means for providing an electrical signal comprises sensing means for sensing the position of said detent means. 22. The tool holder assembly of claim 21 wherein said sensing means comprises microswitches, each adapted to sense the position of an associated detent means. 23. The tool holder assembly of claim 14 wherein each of said retainer plates is provided with diagonally aligned leading edges which taper inwardly toward the recess of a connector to serve as guide means for guiding a connector into a U-shaped slot. 24. The tool holder assembly of claim 1 wherein each connector is provided with a connector operating arm movable between a locked and unlocked position. 25. The tool holder assembly of claim 24 wherein each connector is provided with detent means for maintaining its locking arm in the locked position. 26. The tool holder assembly of claim 25 wherein said detent means comprises a substantially U-shaped resilient detent member having a yoke and first and second integral arms extending from said yoke; the free end of one of said arms and said yoke being secured to said connector; the free end of the remaining arm having a rounded projection extending into the path of movement of said locking arm and being displaced from said path of movement when said locking arm moves to the locked position, said rounded projection preventing movement of said locking arm from the locked position due to vibration. 27. The tool holder assembly of claim 4 wherein said first and second toggle assemblies are adjustably movable along said elongated rod; and means for locking each of said toggle assemblies to said elongated rod. 28. The tool holder assembly of claim 1 wherein each connector assembly is comprised of a flange having a tapered projection for receiving a robot arm flange; said robot arm flange having a tapered opening and a stationary coupling means extending across said opening; said flange having said tapered projection adapted to be inserted into said tapered opening; said tapered projection having radially aligned slots for receiving said coupling means; locking means arranged for movement within said tapered projection and having a receiving portion for receiving said coupling means; said locking means being movable to a first position causing said coupling means to draw said tapers into intimate contact and a second position for releasing said coupling means, under control of said means for moving the connector means. 29. A method for coupling a tool to a robot arm, said tool being arranged within a tool holder, said tool including a mounting flange having a tapered projection and locking means arranged for movement within said tapered operating arm extending outwardly from the periphery of said flange, said robot arm having a female flange with a tapered opening adapted to receive said tapered projection, said method comprising the steps of: moving said robot arm to place said robot arm flange above said tapered projection; moving said robot arm downwardly when said robot arm flange opening is aligned with said tapered projection whereby said tapered projection enters into said tapered opening; moving said operating arm from the unlock position to the locked position to lock said tool flange to said robot arm flange; and moving said robot arm to displace said tool flange from said tool holder, whereupon said robot arm is thereafter free to be moved to a location in a workspace for performing an operation according to the tool coupled thereto. 30. A method for uncoupling a tool from a robot arm through the use of a tool holder having a tool receiving opening, said tool including a mounting flange having a tapered projection and locking means arranged for movement within said tapered projection, said locking means having an operating arm extending outwardly from the periphery of said flange, said robot arm having a female flange with a tapered opening receiving said tapered projection, said method comprising the steps of: moving said robot arm to place said robot arm above said tool holder opening; moving said robot arm downwardly when the tool coupled to said robot arm is aligned with said tool holder opening whereby said tool and tool mounting flange enter into said tool holder opening; moving said operating arm from the locked position to the unlocked position to unlock said tool flange from said robot arm flange; moving said robot arm to displace said robot arm flange from said tool holder, said robot arm thereafter being free to be moved to another location in a workspace for performing a subsequent operation. 31. A tool holder assembly for holding tools including a connector assembly fixedly secured to each tool and having a connector means movable between a locked and an unlocked position for connection with apparatus for operating the tool; said tool holder assembly including an opening adapted to hold a tool and its cooperating connector assembly; each connector assembly having a predetermined peripheral shape; said opening having a shape generally conforming to the shape of said connector assembly and including means for substantially simultaneously moving the connector means provided in each of said connectors between a locked and an unlocked position; each connector assembly having an annular slot with a pair of flats arranged on opposite sides of said slot; said tool holder assembly having a pair of guide plates affixed on opposite sides of said opening for slidably engaging one of said flats in said slot; detent means arranged in each guide plate; dimple means in each of said flats; each of said detent means being snap-fitted into one of said dimple means when the connected assembly is properly seated in said opening; sensing means responsive to said detent means being snap-fitted into an associated dimple means for providing an output; and signal means responsive to the outputs of said sensing means for providing a signal that a connector assembly is properly seated in said opening. 32. The assembly of claim 31 wherein said signal means includes a light emitting diode. 33. The assembly of claim 31 wherein said sensing means comprises a microswitch for providing an output indication when associated detent means is snap-fitted into a dimple means. 