A system and method for measuring viscosity of a layer of wet paint on a surface by deforming the layer of paint, measuring the response of the deformed layer of paint, and determining the viscosity based on the measured response.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for measuring the viscosity of a layer of wet paint comprising the steps of: providing a substrate having a layer of wet paint thereon, said layer of wet paint having an inner surface adjacent to said substrate and an exposed outer surface having an original shape; applying a deforming force to a predetermined area of the exposed outer surface of said layer of wet paint to depress said outer surface toward said inner surface to form a dimple in said layer of wet paint; measuring the time required to deform said outer surface to form said dimple; and determining the viscosity of the layer of wet paint based on said time measured. 2. A method according to claim 1 further comprising after measuring said time required to deform said outer surface, releasing said deforming force and measuring the time required for said outer surface to return to said original shape. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of measuring said time required for said outer surface to return to said original shape further comprises the steps of: reflecting a collimated light beam off of said dimple; measuring the intensity of the light reflected off of said dimple; determining a threshold level of reflected light intensity, said threshold level being the level of light intensity reflected from said outer surface without said dimple being present; and measuring the time required for the reflected light intensity to reach the threshold intensity. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein the intensity of the reflected light is measured by a directional spot light meter. 5. A method according to claim 2 wherein the step of measuring said time required for said outer surface to return to said original shape is accomplished through automated computer control. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of measuring said time required to deform said outer surface comprises the steps of: reflecting a collimated light beam off of said predetermined area; measuring the intensity of the light reflected off of said predetermined area; determining a threshold level of reflected light intensity, said threshold level being less than the reflected light intensity from the exposed outer surface prior to said deforming force being applied; and measuring the time required for the reflected light intensity to drop below the threshold level. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein the intensity of the reflected light is measured by a directional spot light meter. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said deforming force is a pulse of compressed gas emitted onto said predetermined area. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of measuring the time required to deform said outer surface is accomplished through automated computer control. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein the step of determining the viscosity of the wet paint is accomplished through computer control. 11. An apparatus for measuring the viscosity of a layer of wet paint on a substrate, said layer of paint having an inner surface adjacent to said substrate and an exposed outer surface, comprising: means for deforming a predetermined area of the exposed outer surface of said layer of wet paint to form a dimple in said layer; and means for optically measuring a response of said predetermined area of the exposed outer surface and the time required for said response, the viscosity of the wet paint being a function of said response and said time. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein said deforming means comprises a gas nozzle, said gas nozzle emitting a brief pulse of compressed gas in order to deform said predetermined area. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein said optical measuring means further comprises: a collimated light source, said light source reflecting a collimated light beam off of said predetermined area; means for measuring the intensity of the light reflected off of said predetermined area; and means for measuring the time required for the measured reflected light intensity to drop below a threshold level, said threshold level being the level of reflected light intensity from the exposed outer surface after said outer surface initially deforms. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 13 wherein said measuring means is a directional spot light meter. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein said predetermined area is on a painted surface of an automobile. 16. A method of measuring the viscosity of wet paint comprising the steps of: providing a substrate having a layer of wet paint thereon, said layer of wet paint having an inner surface adjacent to said substrate and an exposed outer surface; reflecting a collimated light beam off of a predetermined area of the exposed surface; measuring the intensity of the light reflected off of the predetermined area; energizing a jet of compressed gas, said jet emitting a sufficient amount of compressed gas onto the predetermined area to deform the predetermined area of the exposed outer surface; determining a threshold level of reflected light intensity from the predetermined area of the exposed outer surface after said outer surface initially deforms; measuring a deformation time required for the intensity of the reflected light to drop below the threshold level; de-energizing the jet of compressed gas after the reflected light intensity drops below the threshold level; measuring a restoration time required for the reflected light intensity to reach the threshold level after the jet of compressed air has been turned off; and analyzing the deformation time and the restoration time, thereby determining the viscosity of the layer of paint on the substrate. 17. A method for measuring the viscosity of a layer of wet paint comprising the steps of: providing a substrate having a layer of wet paint thereon, said layer of wet paint having an inner surface adjacent to said substrate and an exposed outer surface having an original shape; applying a deforming force to a predetermined area of the exposed outer surface of said layer of wet paint to depress said outer surface toward said inner surface to form a dimple in said layer of wet paint and then releasing said deforming force; measuring the time required for said outer surface to return to said original shape; determining the viscosity of the layer of wet paint based on said time measured. 