A method and apparatus are provided for simultaneously positioning electronic components, such as surface-mounted chips on a circuit board. A removable load plate carries a plurality of chip placement assemblies, each having a support disposing a plurality of such components in a stack adjacent the board. The assemblies are disposed about the load plate in a geometric pattern corresponding to that of chips to be placed. A stripping component of each assembly in slidable engagement with the support sequentially urges each chip in the stack transversely from the stack to a second position opposing a corresponding desired site on the board where the chip is to be placed. Each support includes a mounting block having a connector for releasable interconnection of each positioning apparatus to the load plate. A chamber maintains the chip at the second position in response to fluid pressure differential. The support receives a tube for transporting the chip from the second position to a third position wherein it engages the board site. A shuttle plate simultaneously urges the stripping components of all assemblies in the slidable motion to strip chips from the stack. The load plate is easily replaced with one re-loaded off line to carry a replenished supply of chips in the same or different pattern.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for use in simultaneous mounting of a plurality of leadless chips on a circuit board at sites defining a preselected geometric pattern comprising: a load plate releasably interconnectable to said apparatus; and a plurality of chip placement assemblies releasably and simultaneously carried on said plate arranged in said pattern; said placement assemblies each comprising support means for supporting a stack of said leadless chips adjacent said board, said stack defining a substantially longitudinal axis therethrough; and stripping means for urging a first leadless chip of said stack along a line substantially transverse to said stack from a first position within said stack and into a cavity aligning said chip in a second position opposing one of said sites and wherein said stripping means includes means for supporting said chip with a fluid pressure differential while maintaining said alignment by said cavity. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said support means includes a magazine for receiving said stack of chips therewithin; and a mounting block carrying said magazine and defining said cavity. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said plate defines a plurality of apertures extending therethrough arranged in said pattern; and wherein said each placement assembly further includes connector means on said mounting block for releasable interconnection of said block to said plate when said block is disposed at least partially within said plate in one of said apertures in said plate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said stripping means includes: a first stripper surface for carrying and maintaining said chip at a fixed orientation with respect to said line during said urging from said first to said second positions. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said stripping means further includes: a second stripper surface for restraining said stack from movement along said axis during said urging of said chip. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said stripping means includes: a step surface intermediate said first and second stripper surfaces for engaging an edge of said chip during said urging of said chip from said first to said second position. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said mounting block internally defines: tapered surface means for adjusting orientation of said first chip relative to said line during said sliding. 8. The apparatus of claim 5 including: means for urging said stack in the direction of said axis until a second chip adjacent said first chip in said stack is moved into said first position. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 further including: retainer means for preventing movement of said second chip in the direction of said line during said urging of said first chip. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein: said first and second chips define respective first and second thicknesses; said first stripper surface and said retainer means define a first distance therebetween; and said first distance is between said first thickness and the sum of said first thickness and said second thickness. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein: said first stripper surface and said second stripper surface define a second distance therebetween; and wherein said second distance is less than said first thickness of said first chip. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a shuttle plate having a plurality of apertures extending therethrough; and wherein said stripping means is in sliding engagement with said support means and includes a projection means extending into a respective one of said apertures in said shuttle plate for urging said stripping means in opposing directions in response to motion of said shuttle plate. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said plurality of apertures in said shuttle plate define said geometric pattern of said placement assemblies. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further including pin means engaging said shuttle plate for slidably supporting said shuttle plate relative to said load plate in vertical registry therewith. 15. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said projection means is comprised of a material preselected to shear from said stripping means when force exerted by said shuttle plate against said projection means exceeds a preselected magnitude. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a stack of leadless chips disposed in said support means. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said assemblies is releasable from and interconnectable to said load plate as an integral unit. 18. A method of positioning leadless chips, for use in simultaneous mounting of a plurality of said ships at circuit board sites, comprising: providing a plurality of chip placement devices, each corresponding to the mounting location of said chips at said circuit board sites; simultaneously disposing said leadless chips adjacent said board in a plurality of stacks each defining a longitudinal axis therethrough; simultaneously urging a first leadless chip of each said stack along a line transverse to said stack from a first position within said stack and into a cavity aligning said chip in a second position opposing one of said sites; and simultaneously supporting said chip of each said stack with a fluid pressure differential while maintaining said alignment by said cavity. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said urging occurs while maintaining a surface of said first chip in a plane intersecting said axis and containing said line. 20. The method of claim 19 further including the step of moving each said stack along a respective said axis until a second leadless chip of each said stack adjacent a corresponding said first chip in said each stack is moved into said first position. 21. The method of claim 20 further including repeating said urging step wherein said second chip becomes said first chip. 22. The method of claim 18 further including maintaining said first chip in said second position in response to a fluid pressure differential. 23. The method of claim 18 further including the step of: adjusting orientation of said first chip relative to said line during said urging. 24. The method of claim 18 wherein said step of disposing said plurality of stacks of chips adjacent said board comprises: releasably maintaining said chips at a location a predetermined distance from said board. 