An apparatus for stripping the scrap portion from a die cut blank includes a stripper pin carrier providing a pattern of stripper pins supported in a resilient compressible material layer in which the stripper pins are demountably embedded. The stripper pins may be inserted into the resilient layer to provide a pattern or patterns which will accommodate virtually any size, shape and location of scrap portions to be stripped from a blank. The stripper pins can be removed and reinserted in a different pattern to accommodate a different run of blanks of corrugated paperboard or the like. Programmable robotic control may be used for pin placement and removal. A unique positive stripping apparatus includes a resilient soft-covered roll beneath the blank at the point of stripping and into which the leading edge of the scrap portion is pressed by the stripper pins on the upper rotary pin-carrying roll. The stripping pins initially displace the leading edge of the scrap portion from the plane of the blank and into the soft layer of the roll until the edge is captured by the stripping edge of a downstream scrap carrier. The scrap carrier traps the scrap portion against the soft deformable layer of the lower roll and continued rotation of the roll effects a positive stripping of the scrap from the blank and carries the scrap away for disposal.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus for striping the cutout scrap portion from a die cut blank comprising: lower support means for supporting the blank and providing yieldable support for the scrap portion; a plurality of stripper pins each including a relatively blunt outer end and a relatively sharp inner end disposed above the blank; stripper in support means for moving said stripper pins downwardly to bring the blunt outer ends thereof into nonpenetrating surface engagement with the scrap portion and for stripping the scrap from the blank; and, said support means including a stripper pin support matrix comprising a layer of a resilient deformable material into which the inner ends of said stripper pins are demountably inserted. 2. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said stripper pins are disposed to engage the preipheral edge of the scrap portion. 3. The apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said stripper pin support matrix is reciprocable vertically with respect to said lower support means and said blank. 4. The apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said material layer is planar and disposed parallel to said lower support means and said blank. 5. The apparatus as set forth in claim 4 wherein said lower support means comprises a stripping die. 6. The apparatus as set forth in claim 5 and further comprising means for automatically inserting said stripper pins into said material layer in response to a programmed pattern defining said array. 7. The apparatus as set forth in claim 6 including means for robotically inserting said pins. 8. The apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein the interior ends of said pins include retaining means for engaging said resilient material and holding said pins therein. 9. The apparatus as set forth in claim 1 including means for advancing the blank over said lower support means. 10. The apparatus as set forth in claim 9 wherein said stripper pins include at least one stripper pin disposed to engage the leading edge of the scrap portion. 11. The apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said stripper pin support matrix comprises an upper cylindrical roller having said layer of resilient deformable material attached to the surface thereof, and said lower support means comprises a lower cylindrical roller having an outer layer of a resilient deformable material. 12. An apparatus for stripping the scrap portion from a die cut sheet comprising: a pair of counterrotating rolls each having a circumferential portion covered with a layer of a resilient compressible material; means for advancing the die cut sheet between said rolls; stripper pin means embedded in the material layer of one of said rolls and extending radially outwardly therefrom for engaging and pressing the leading edge of the scrap portion into the material layer of the other of said rolls and displacing said edge out of the plane of said sheet; a scrap carrier disposed under the advancing sheet adjacent the downstream surface of said other roll, said carrier including a stripping edge closely spaced from the surface of said other roll, parallel to the axis thereof and extending generally along said material layer; said stripping edge adapted to capture thereunder the displaced scrap edge and hold the scrap portion against the material layer of said other roll for rotation therewith to complete the stripping of said scrap portion from the sheet. 13. The apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein said stripper pin means are embedded in selectively variable positions in the material layer. 14. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said stripper pin means are insertable into and removable from said material layer. 15. The apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein said stripper pin means comprises a plurality of individual pins, each having one relatively sharp end to facilitate insertion and a relatively blunt opposite end for engaging the scrap portion of the sheet. 16. The apparatus as set forth in claim 15 including means for inserting said stripper pins into said material layer in a patterned array representative of the location of each leading edge of a scrap portion on the sheet. 17. The apparatus as set forth in claim 16 wherein said means for inserting comprises a programmable robot. 18. The apparatus as set forth in claim 17 including means for removing said stripper pins from said material layer. 19. The apparatus as set forth in claim 18 wherein said means for removing comprises a programmable robot. 20. The apparatus as set forth in claim 17 comprising a pair of stripper pin-carrying rolls including an active stripper roll disposed in an operative stripping position and an inactive stripper roll disposed in a preparatory position in operative relation to said programmable robot. 21. The apparatus as set forth in claim 20 wherein each of said pin-carrying rolls is rotatably mounted to the end of a rotatable carrying arm for movement between said operative and preparatory positions. 22. The apparatus as set forth in claim 21 including means for indexing the inactive pin-carrying roll about its axis of rotation and for indexing said robot axially along the surface of said inactive roll to establish said patterened array of stripper pins. 23. The apparatus as set forth in claim 16 wherein said scrap carrier comprises a generally flat horizontal upper surface defining said stripping edge, and wherein said stripping edge comprises a series of teeth selectively retractable from said edge to form open spaces between alternate teeth, said spaces positioned to allow passage of each of said stripper pins between alternate teeth as said pins rotate out of engagement with the scrap portion. 24. The apparatus as set forth in claim 23 including means for retracting selected ones of said teeth in response to operation of said means for inserting said stripper pins. 25. The apparatus as set forth in claim 23 including means responsive to rotation of said stripper pin carrying roll for retracting said teeth from and returning said teeth to said stripping edge. 26. The apparatus as set forth in claim 23 wherein said scrap carrier includes a semicylindrical lower surface disposed concentrically with and spaced from the surface of said other roll by a distance less than the thickness of the sheet. 27. The apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein the layer of resilient compressible material on said one roll comprises a rubber compound. 28. The apparatus as set forth in claim 26 wherein said layer of resilient compressible material on said one roll comprises a plurality of layers of materials of varying compressibility. 29. The apparatus as set forth in claim 28 wherein said layers of varying compressibility comprise radially inner and outer layers of a relatively harder material and an intermediate layer of a softer material. 30. An apparatus for stripping the scrap portion from a die cut blank comprising: a pair of counterrotating rolls; means for advancing the die cut blank between said rolls; stripper pin means on the outer surface of one of said rolls for stripping the scrap portion from the blank; a layer of resilient compressible material covering a circumferential portion of the other of said rolls; said stripper pin means extending radially outwardly from the outer surface of said one roll and positioned to engage and press the leading edge of the scrap portion into the material layer of said other roll and to displace said edge out of the plane of the blank; a scrap carrier disposed under the advancing blank downstream of said other roll and adjacent to the surface thereof, said carrier including stripping edge means closely spaced from the surface of said other roll, parallel to the axis thereof and extending generally along said material layer for capturing the displaced scrap edge thereunder and holding the scrap portion against said material layer for rotation therewith to complete the stripping of the scrap portion from the blank. 31. The apparatus as set forth in claim 30 wherein said stripper pin means comprises a plurality of individual stripper pins. 32. The apparatus as set forth in claim 31 wherein said scrap carrier includes a generally flat supporting surface for the blank, said surface defining said stripping edge means, and wherein said stripping edge means comprises a toothed stripping edge having a series of laterally spaced teeth with the spaces between the teeth positioned to allow passage of each of said stripper pins through one of said spaces as said pins rotate out of engagement with the scrap portion. 33. The apparatus as set forth in claim 32 wherein said stripping edge comprises a series of laterally adjacent teeth each selectively retractable from said edge to define one of said spaces. 34. The apparatus as set forth in claim 33 wherein said scrap carrier includes a cylindrical lower surface disposed concentrically with and spaced from the surface of said other roll. 35. The apparatus as set forth in claim 34 wherein the space between said lower surface and the surface of said other roll is less than the thickness of the blank. 