The present invention is a production control system and an associated method for interfacing automated material handling systems to manufacturing workcells, which workcells have processing equipment therein for performing processing jobs on provided material. An addressable library contains a plurality of program modules with each module defining a sequence of operations that are to be performed by at least one piece of processing equipment. In accordance with job descriptions and process scripts, program modules are selected to provide the capability of concurrently performing processing operations on the provided material. Each piece of processing equipment is programmed to be responsive to the sequence of operations defined by the program modules. The flow of material to and through each workstation is controlled by the job descriptions and process scripts. The processing operations are event tracked for signalling the occurrence of particular operations in the defined sequence of operations.
Claims We claim: 1. A production control method for interfacing an automated material handling system to at least one manufacture workcell having processing equipment therein for performing processing jobs on provided material comprising the steps of: forming an addressable library of program modules with each module defining a sequence of operations that are to be performed by at least one piece of processing equipment within a manufacturing workcell; generating process scripts for addressing selected program modules; selecting program modules for performing the desired processing operations on the provided material in accordance with formed job descriptions and said process scripts; programming each piece of processing equipment to be responsive to the sequence of processing operations defined by the selected program modules; executing said process scripts for causing the flow and processing of material to and through each workstation to be in accordance with the formed job descriptions and executing process scripts; event tracking the processing operations of the processing equipment within a workcell for providing an indication of the performance of an operation, in the defined sequence of processing operations, being performed on the material; and tracking the work in process within a workcell to provide data representative of a quality rating for the operations being performed on the material. 2. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: selecting at least one processing step to be applied to a previously processed material in accordance with the quality rating of the operations previously performed on the material. 3. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: interval tracking select processing operations for collecting and storing specified process parameters on designated intervals. 4. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: post-processing the provided data for adjusting one or more pieces of processing equipment. 5. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: post-processing the provided data for directing one or more pieces of processing equipment. 6. The production control method according to claim 1 wherein the formed addressable library of program modules includes test modules for causing testing of the processed material to provide test data. 7. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: forming a plurality of addressably stored libraries addressable by the formed script to provide miscellaneous processing functions. 8. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: storing data generated from the processing of the provided material in a database for future use. 9. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: monitoring the signalling from the event-tracking step for the occurrence of a signal corresponding to the occurrence of a particular event to initiate a non-sequenced operation. 10. The production control method according to claim 1 and further comprising the step of: monitoring the signalling from the event-tracking step for the occurrence of a signal corresponding to the occurrence of a particular event to terminate a predetermined operation. 11. A production control method for interfacing an automated material handling system to at least one manufacture workcell having processing equipment therein for performing processing jobs on provided material comprising the steps of: forming an addressable library of program modules with each module defining a sequence of operations that are to be performed by at least one piece of processing equipment within a manufacturing workcell; generating process scripts for addressing selected program modules; selecting program modules for performing the desired processing operations on the provided material in accordance with formed job descriptions and said process scripts wherein at least on of said scripts includes a step of calling at least one other script; programming each piece of processing equipment to be responsive to the sequence of processing operations defined by the selected program modules; executing said process scripts for causing the flow and processing of material to and through each workstation to be in accordance with the formed job descriptions and executing process scripts; and event tracking the processing operations of the processing equipment within a workcell for providing an indication of the performance of an operation in the defined sequence of processing operations being performed on the material. 12. The production control method according to claim 11 and further comprising the step of displaying in real time data representative of the operations being performed on the material. 13. The production control method according to claim 11 and further comprising the step of: forming a file of processing events associated with the execution of each process script. 14. The production control method according to claim 11 and further comprising the steps of: enunciating the activities within a manufacturing workcell; and forming a file of selected sequence of operations within a manufacturing workcell. 15. A production control method for interfacing an automated material handling system to at least one manufacture workcell having processing equipment therein for performing processing jobs on provided material comprising the steps of: forming an addressable library of program modules with each module defining a sequence of operations that are to be performed by at least one piece of processing equipment within a manufacturing workcell; selecting program modules for performing the desired processing operations on the provided material in accordance with formed job descriptions and process scripts; programming each piece of processing equipment to be responsive to the sequence of operations defined by the selected program modules; executing said process scripts and controlling the flow of material to and through each workstation in accordance with the formed job descriptions and executed process scripts; event tracking the processing operations of the processing equipment within a workcell for signalling the performance of an operation in the defined sequence of processing operations being performed on the material; and forming a capability table for each manufacturing workcell for verification of the capability of performing a scripted task. 16. The production control method according to claim 15 and further comprising the step of: integrating user supplied plotter algorithm(s) with the selected program modules for processing data. 17. A production control method for interfacing an automated material handling system to at least one manufacture workcell having processing equipment therein for performing processing jobs on provided material comprising the steps of: forming an addressable library of program modules with each module defining a sequence of operations that are to be performed by at least one piece of processing equipment within a manufacturing workcell; generating process scripts for addressing selected program modules; embedding operator selectable operations in said generated process scripts to provide the ability to tailor operations by operator interaction; selecting program modules for performing the desired processing operations on the provided material in accordance with formed job descriptions and said process scripts; programming each piece of processing equipment to be responsive to the sequence of processing operations defined by the selected program modules; executing said process scripts for causing the flow and processing of material to and through each workstation to be in accordance with the formed job descriptions and executing process scripts; and event tracking the processing operations of the processing equipment within a workcell for providing an indication of the performance of an operation in the defined sequence of processing operations being performed on the material. 18. The production control method according to claim 17 and further comprising the step of: providing each of the selected program modules with the capability accessing other modules. 19. A production control method for interfacing an automated material handling system to at least one manufacture workcell having processing equipment therein for performing processing jobs on provided material comprising the steps of: forming an addressable library of program modules with each module defining a sequence of operations that are to be performed by at least one piece of processing equipment within a manufacturing workcell; generating process scripts for addressing selected program modules; selecting program modules for performing the desired processing operations on the provided material in accordance with formed job descriptions and said process scripts; programming each piece of processing equipment to be responsive to the sequence of processing operations defined by the selected program modules; using parameters in a process script where the parameters are defined during processing run time; executing said process scripts for causing the flow and processing of material to and through each workstation to be in accordance with the formed job descriptions and executing process scripts; and event tracking the processing operations of the processing equipment within a workcell for providing an indication of the performance of an operation in the defined sequence of processing operations being performed on the material. 20. The production control method according to claim 19 and further comprising the step of: forming a table of attributes that are addressable by logical names appearing in a process script. 21. A computer based production control method for interfacing signal responsive machinery to manufacturing systems to automatically perform process operations on provided materials comprising the steps of: forming an addressable library of software based process scripts each defining a process that is to be performed on provided materials; forming an addressable library of program files each having lines of computer code for generating signals to be applied to the signal responsive machinery for causing a specific machine operation in response to a portion of a compiled script; compiling a script for addressing select process scripts and program files; verifying the compiling of said script; deleting said compiled script when no longer needed; and causing said signal responsive machinery to automatically perform process operations on provided materials in response to the compiled script. 22. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: event tracking the process operations of said signal responsive machinery and providing signals indicative of the occurrence of particular events. 23. The production control method according to claim 22 and further comprising the step of: monitoring the event-tracking step for the occurrence of a signal corresponding to the occurrence of a particular event to initiate a non-sequenced operation. 24. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: monitoring the signalling from the event tracking step to for the occurrence of a signal corresponding to the occurrence of a particular event terminate a predetermined operation. 25. The production control method according to claim 21 wherein at least one script includes a step of calling at least one other script. 26. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: tracking the work in process to provide data representative of the process operations being performed on the provided material. 27. The production control method according to claim 26 and further comprising the step of: storing data generated from the processing of the provided materials in a database for future use. 28. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the steps of: determining at each processing step the quality of the processed materials; and comparing the determined quality associated with a processed material against desired qualities and selecting future operations performed on the processed material as a function of the comparison. 29. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: interval tracking select processing operations for collecting and storing specified process parameters on designated intervals. 30. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: post-processing the provided data for adjusting one or more pieces of said signal responsive machinery. 31. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: post-processing the provided data for directing one or more pieces of said signal responsive machinery. 32. The production control method according to claim 21 wherein the formed library of program files includes test modules for performing testing of the processed material to provide test data. 33. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: forming a plurality of addressably stored libraries addressable by the complied script to provide miscellaneous processing functions. 34. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the steps of: enunciating the sequence of operations of said signal responsive machinery; and forming a file of selected enunciated activities. 35. The production control method according to claim 21 wherein at least one process script includes a step of calling at least one other process script. 36. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of displaying in real time data representative of the operations being performed on the material. 37. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: forming a file of processing events associated with the execution of each process script. 38. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: forming a capability table for each signal responsive machine used for verification of the capability of performing a scripted task. 39. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: embedding operator selectable operations in process scripts to provide the ability to tailor operations by selection. 40. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: providing each of the selected program files with the capability of accessing other modules. 41. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: using parameters in a process script where the parameters are defined during processing run time. 42. The production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: forming a table of attributes that are addressable by logical names appearing in a process script. 43. A computer based production control method according to claim 21 and further comprising the step of: translating machine information to manufacturing computer system language to provide data on the process operations. 44. A computer based production control method for interfacing signal responsive machinery to manufacturing systems to automatically perform process operations on materials provided by an automated material handling system comprising the steps of: forming a library of software based process scripts each defining a process that is to be performed on provided materials; forming a library of program files each having lines of computer code for generating signals to be applied to the signal responsive machinery for causing a specific machine operation in response to a portion of a compiled script; compiling a script incorporating select process scripts and program files; causing said responsive machinery to automatically perform process operations on provided materials in response to the complied script; providing handshaking communications with the automated material handling system to synchronize process operations; and generating a report representing the status of process operations based on said provided data. 45. A computer based production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: translating machine information to manufacturing computer system language to provide data on the process operations. 46. A computer based production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the steps of: enunciating the sequence of operations of said signal responsive machinery; and forming a file of selected enunciated activities. 47. A computer based production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the steps of: determining quality data as to the quality of the process performed on a material at each stage of process; and selecting a succeeding process in accordance with the provided quality data. 48. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: interval tracking select processing operations for collecting and storing specified process parameters on designated intervals. 49. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: tracking the work in process to provide data representative of the process operations being performed on the provided material. 50. The production control method according to claim 49 and further comprising the step of: post-processing the provided data for adjusting one or more pieces of signal responsive machinery. 51. The production control method according to claim 49 and further comprising the step of displaying in real time, data representative of the operations being performed on the material. 52. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: post-processing the provided data for directing one or more pieces of signal responsive machinery. 53. The production control method according to claim 44 wherein the formed library of program files includes test modules for performing testing of the processed material to provide test data. 54. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: forming a plurality of addressably stored libraries addressable by the compiled script to provide miscellaneous processing functions. 55. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: storing data generated from the processing of the provided materials in a database for future use. 56. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: event tracking the process operations of said signal responsive machinery and providing signals indicative of the occurrence of particular events. 57. The production control method according to claim 56 and further comprising the step of: monitoring the signalling from the event tracking step for the occurrence of a signal corresponding to the occurrence of a particular event to terminate a predetermined operation. 58. The production control method according to claim 56 and further comprising the step of: monitoring the signalling from the event tracking step for the occurrence of a signal corresponding to the occurrence of a particular event to initiate a non-sequenced operation. 59. The production control method according to claim 44 wherein at least one script includes a step of calling at least one other script. 60. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: forming a file of processing events associated with the execution of each process script. 61. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: forming a capability table for each signal responsive machine used for verification of the capability of performing a scripted task. 62. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: embedding operator selectable operations in process scripts to provide the ability to tailor operations by selection. 63. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: providing each of the selected program modules with the capability of accessing other modules. 64. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: using parameters in a process script where the parameters are defined during run time. 65. The production control method according to claim 44 and further comprising the step of: forming a table of attributes that are addressable by logical names appearing in a process script. 66. A production control system for interfacing an automated material handling system to at least one manufacture workcell having processing equipment therein for performing processing jobs on provided material comprising: an addressable library means having a plurality of program modules with each module defining a sequence of operations that are to be performed by at least one piece of processing equipment within a manufacturing workcell; means for generating process scripts; selecting means for selecting program modules for performing the desired processing operations on the provided material in accordance with formed job descriptions and said generated process scripts; means for programming each piece of processing equipment to be responsive to the sequence of processing operations defined by the selected program modules; means for causing the flow and processing of material to and through each workstation to be in accordance with the formed job descriptions and process scripts; means for event tracking the processing operations of the processing equipment within a workcell for providing an indication of the performance of an operation in the defined sequence of processing operations being performed on the material; and means for tracking the work in process within a workcell to provide data representative of the operations being performed on the material. 67. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: means responsive to said provided data for acting upon previously processed material. 68. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: means for interval tracking selected processing operations for collecting and storing specified process parameters at designated intervals. 69. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: means for post-processing the provided data for adjusting one or more pieces of processing equipment. 70. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: means for post-processing the provided data, for directing one or more pieces of processing equipment. 71. The production control system according to claim 66 wherein said addressable library means includes test modules for performing testing of the processed material to provide test data. 72. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: means for monitoring the signalling from said means for event-tracking for the occurrence of a signal corresponding to the occurrence of a particular event to initiate a non-sequenced operation. 73. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: processing file means for forming a file of processing events associated with the execution of each process script. 74. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: means for enunciating the activities within a manufacturing workcell; and an activity file means for forming a file of selected sequence of operations within a manufacturing workcell. 75. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: capability table means for forming a capability table for each manufacturing workcell used for verification of the capability of performing a scripted task. 76. The production control system according to claim 66 and further comprising: means for embedding operator selectable operations in process scripts to provide the ability to tailor operations by selection. 77. A computer based production control system for interfacing signal responsive machinery to manufacturing systems to automatically perform process operations on provided materials comprising: means for forming a library of software based process scripts each defining a process that be performed on provided materials; means for forming a library of program files each having lines of computer code for generating signals to be applied to the signal responsive machinery for causing a specific machine operation in response to a portion of a compiled script; and means for compiling a script incorporating select process scripts and program files; means for verifying the compiling of said script; means for causing said responsive machinery to automatically perform process operations on provided materials in response to the script from said means for compiling; and means for deleting said compiled script when no longer needed. 78. The production control system according to claim 77 and further comprising: means for forming an event table of select processing events or operations of the signal responsive machinery; and means for tracking the process of said signal responsive machinery operations by comparing the present operation of the machinery with the events formed in said event table and for providing an indication of which event the machinery is undertaking. 79. The production control system according to claim 77 and further comprising: means for determining the quality of the processed materials at each process operation; and means for comparing the quality associated with a processed material to change future process operations performed on the processed material. 80. A computer based production control system for interfacing signal responsive machinery to manufacturing systems to automatically perform process operations on materials provided by an automated material handling system comprising: means for forming a library of software based process scripts each defining a process that is to be performed on provided materials; means for forming a library of program files each having lines of computer code for generating signals to be applied to the signal responsive machinery for causing a specific machine operation in response to a portion of a compiled script; means for compiling a script incorporating select process scripts and program files; means for causing said responsive machinery to automatically perform process operations on provided materials in response to the script from said means for compiling; means for providing handshaking communications with the automated material handling system to synchronize process operations; means for translating machine information to manufacturing computer system language to provide data on the process operations; and means for generating a report representing the status of process operations based on said provided data. 81. A computer based production control system according to claim 80 and further comprising: means for providing quality data as to the quality of each of the process operations performed on a material; and means for selecting succeeding operations in accordance with the provided quality data. 