Disclosed is an automatic carrier system having one or more self-propelled robotic carriers for carrying products-in-assembly between assembly stations of an automated assembly line. The running speed and stopping position of individual carriers is controlled by command indicators. The carriers are capable of stopping within a small distance of a desired position relative to an assembly station. Each carrier supports a pallet upon which is slidably disposed a subpallet. Each assembly station has a robotic arm upon which is located a positioning member and an assembling tool. Accurate positioning of product-in-assembly is effected by lowering the positioning member, which comprises two cylinders with tapered openings, over a pair of positioning projections mounted on the slidable subpallets. As the positioning projections slide within the tapered opening of the positioning member cylinders, the sloped surface of the tapered opening causes the positioning projections to move toward the center of the cylinders. When the positioning member reaches its lowermost point, the positioning projections are centered in the cylinders, thus causing the subpallet and workpiece to be in the desired position relative to the assembling machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for positioning a workpiece relative to an automatic assembling machine comprising: a carrier disposed adjacent said automatic assembling machine, said carrier supporting a pallet, fixed to said carrier, and a subpallet, slidably mounted on said pallet, said subpallet having means for holding said workpiece, said subpallet also having at least two positioning projections; a robotic arm disposed on said automatic assembling machine having a positioning member capable of moving into and out of contact with said positioning projections, said positioning member made up of at least two positioning cylinders having tapered openings at one end thereon, said tapered openings having a smallest diameter at the centers of said positioning cylinders; wherein, when said carrier is placed such that said workpiece is positioned within a short distance of a desired position relative to said automatic assembling machine, said positioning member can be moved toward said carrier, and said positioning projections on said subpallet are engaged with said tapered openings of said positioning cylinders, said tapered openings causing said positioning projections to move toward the center of said tapered openings, thus causing said subpallet to slide on said pallet, thereby causing said workpiece to be disposed in said desired position relative to said automatic assembling machine. 2. A positioning apparatus of claim 1 wherein said carriers are self-propelled and capable of receiving speed and stop commands from and external source, said carriers travelling along a rail to said position adjacent said automatic assembling machine. 3. A positioning apparatus of claim 1 wherein said tapered opening defines a recess which is cup-shaped, the largest diameter of said tapered opening being defined by the position of the carrier relative to the automatic assembling machine. 