A manipulator is provided for a plate bending machine containing an arm which extends in the vertical direction and a pair of bracket members in which one bracket member can freely approach and withdraw from the other, wherein the bracket members are provided with engaging members which can engage with and be released from an engaging section formed on the jaws for grasping a plate material. A jaw exchanging device which contains in turn a plurality of jaw release structures which can mount and remove the jaws of the manipulator and can retain the jaw before mounting and after removal thereof, and a transfer structure which can transfer the plurality of jaw release structures together between the manipulator and a jaw storage magazine, and selectively transfer any one of the jaw release structures to a jaw changing position on the manipulator in a position on the side of the manipulator are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator for a plate bending machine comprising: an arm which extends substantially in the vertical direction; a pair of bracket members mounted on the arm in a manner such that one bracket member can freely approach and withdraw from the other; a pair of jaws for grasping a plate material; and means for removably mounting one of said jaws on each of said bracket members, the removable mounting means including a pair of engaging members provided on each of the bracket members, and a pair of engaging sections formed in each of the jaws, each engaging member cooperating with one of the engaging sections, each of the engaging members further including an engaging pin supported on one of the bracket members in a freely protruding and retracting manner in a sidewall thereof and means for biasing the engaging pin so as to protrude from the sidewall of the bracket member, and each of the engaging sections including an engaging hole for receiving one of the engaging pins protruded from one of the sidewalls of the bracket members wherein each jaw is provided with a pair of forked legs having a concave section therebetween to form left and right hand leg sections each having inside and outside walls, wherein the bracket member can be inserted in the concave section. 2. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein each of the engaging sections for receiving one of the engaging pins is formed at least in the inside wall of the jaws which abuts the sidewall of the bracket member when the jaw is mounted on the bracket member and includes an engaging through hole which communicates with the outside wall of each of the jaws. 3. The manipulator for a plate bending machine of claim 2 wherein the engaging through holes are formed in the left and right hand leg sections of the jaws and the engaging pin is provided from the corresponding left and right sidewalls of the bracket members in a freely protruding and retracting manner. 4. The manipulator for a plate bending machine of claim 3 wherein the bracket members are wedged shaped with the width narrowing toward the tip of the bracket. 5. The manipulator of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of first guide members each provided on one of the bracket members, and a plurality of second guide members each provided on one of the jaws, each of the first guide members cooperating with one of the second guide members so as to facilitate engagement of each of the engaging members with one of the engaging sections. 6. A jaw changing device for a manipulator, the manipulator having an arm which extends substantially in the vertical direction, a pair of bracket members mounted on the arm in a manner such that one bracket member can freely approach and withdraw from the other, a pair of jaws for grasping a plate material, and means for removably mounting each of the jaws on each of the bracket members, the removably mounting means including a pair of engaging members provided on each of the bracket members and a pair of engaging sections formed in each of the jaws, each engaging member cooperating with one of the engaging sections, the jaw changing device comprising: means for disengaging at least one of the engaging members from one of the engaging sections in order to remove at least one of the jaws from one of the bracket members; and means for transferring the disengaging means between the manipulator and a jaw storage magazine. 7. The jaw changing device of claim 6, further comprising: a guide means having opposed end sections which guide means is supported in a freely rotating manner at the center thereof on the transferring means wherein a pair of jaw release means is provided, one on each end section of the guide means. 8. The jaw changing device of claim 7, further comprising a detection means for detecting whether or not the exchange jaw is the desired jaw, when the exchange of the jaws take place. 9. The jaw changing device of claim 6, wherein each of said bracket members include a side wall, the engaging members of said removably mounting means each includes an engaging pin, said respective engaging pins being biased by a biasing means, and wherein the jaw disengaging means comprises a jaw releasing rod for pushing the engaging pin into the sidewall of the bracket against the biasing action of the biasing means. 10. A manipulator for a plate bending machine comprising: an arm; a pair of bracket members mounted on the arm in a manner such that one bracket member can freely approach and withdraw from the other; a pair of jaws for grasping a plate material, each jaw being provided with a pair of forked legs having a concave section therebetween to form left and right hand leg sections each having inside and outside walls, wherein the bracket member can be inserted in the concave section; and means for removably mounting each of the jaws on one of said bracket members, the removable mounting means including a pair of engaging members provided on each of the bracket members, and a pair of engaging sections formed in each of the jaws, each engaging member cooperating with one of the engaging sections, each of the engaging members further including an engaging pin supported on one of the bracket members in a freely protruding and retracting manner in a sidewall thereof and means for biasing the engaging pin so as to protrude from the sidewall of the bracket member, and each of the engaging sections including an engaging hole for receiving one of the engaging pins protruded from one of the sidewalls of the bracket members. 