A multi-lead component manipulator for the assembly of circuit boards has optical and tactile feedback systems and includes at least two and preferably three symmetric assemblies radially disposed about a component gripper assembly. Each symmetric assembly has a movable lead guide means for engaging a component lead and aligning the same for circuit board insertion. The guide means are adapted for independent arcuate and radial motion reflective of the optical feedback system and the gripper assembly is capable of axial movement for the acquisition and insertion of components. The tactile feedback system controls component insertion. The manipulator in an alternative embodiment has fixed guide means disposed above the movable guide means. The fixed guide means orient the component leads for acquisition by the movable guide means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-lead component manipulator for printed circuit board assembly by an industrial manipulator comprising: a frame member adapted to be mounted on said industrial manipulator; a gripper means for engaging a component movably mounted on said frame member for axially displacing the component relative to said frame member; and at least two assemblies radially disposed about said gripper means and movably mounted on said frame member, each of said assemblies including component lead guide means for engaging a lead, first motive means for supporting said guide and effecting the arcuate motion thereof, said first motive means slidably mounted on said frame member for radial displacement relative to said gripper means, and second motive means mounted on said frame member for effecting the aforesaid radial displacement. 2. The multi-lead component manipulator of claim 1 wherein the gripper means includes means for engaging the component, third motive means for effecting the axial displacement of said engaging means for inserting the component into the circuit board, and a compliant means disposed between said engaging means and said motive means to allow flexibility of the gripper means during component insertion. 3. The multi-lead component manipulator of claim 2 wherein the at least two assemblies each include a separate second motive means for effecting the radial displacement of the slidably mounted first motive means. 4. The multi-lead component manipulator of claim 2 wherein a single second motive means is in communication with each of the slidably mounted first motive means of each assembly, whereby said single second motive means effects the radial displacement of the first motive means and wherein clutch means are associated with said second motive means for the selected actuation of said radial displacement. 5. The multi-lead component manipulator of claim 2 wherein the first motive means is a galvanometer and the second motive means is a linear displacement servometer. 6. The multi-lead component manipulator according to claim 2 wherein the frame member includes a fixed lead guide means disposed between the first motive means and the movable lead guide means, said fixed lead guide means having a face oriented toward the gripper means, said face including a channel therein for engaging the component lead as the gripper means with component is axially drawn toward the frame member, and wherein the movable lead guide means has a channel therein for engaging the component lead, said movable lead guide channel being alignable with said fixed lead guide channel whereby after said component lead is engaged by said fixed lead guide channel, said gripper means is axially displaced away from said frame member such that the component leads pass from said fixed guide channel to said movable guide channel. 7. The multi-lead component manipulator according to claim 1 including sensor means for detecting a predetermined location in the circuit board and generating an output signal reflective thereof, said output signal selectively actuating the first and second motive means whereby the engaged component leads are aligned with the predetermined location by the lead guide means and the gripper means inserts the component into the predetermined location. 8. The multi-lead component manipulator according to claim 7 wherein the sensor means for detecting a predetermined location in the circuit board and generating an output signal reflective thereof comprises an 1R emitter-silicon photodiode detector circuit means which includes an emitter disposed on the movable guide means and a photodiode disposed below the circuit board in a predetermined relationship therewith so that the emitter signal passes through the circuit board component lead hole and contacts the photodiode therebelow whereby the emitter signal contacting the photodiode generates an output signal therefrom reflective of the movable lead guide location relative to the circuit board component lead hole. 9. The multi-lead component manipulator according to claim 2 including sensor means disposed between the engaging means and the motive means for generating an output reflective of forces generated between the component leads and the circuit board during insertion, the third motive means being responsive to said output. 