A high quality velocity signal is generated from an incremental position encoder, thus eliminating the DC tachometer in robot and machine tool closed loop control systems. The encoder signals are used to amplitude modulate the outputs of a high frequency oscillator. Two side band frequencies equal to the sum and difference of the encoder and oscillator frequencies are produced and converted to analog voltages and summed to yield a speed signal. This signal is continuous through zero rate and has a polarity determined by direction of rotation.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A velocity sensor comprising: an optical position encoder having output signals whose frequency and phase relation depend on the rate and direction of movement of an object to which the encoder is adapted to be attached; a source of a high frequency carrier; means for modulating said carrier with said encoder output signals; and means for producing two side band frequencies that are the sum and difference of said carrier and encoder output frequencies, and for deriving therefrom a positive or negative velocity signal that is continous through zero rate and whose polarity designates the direction of movement. 2. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said last-mentioned means includes means for converting said side band frequencies to analog voltages which are algebraically summed to yield said positive or negative velocity signal. 3. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said encoder output signals are approximately sinusoidal and include a first output and 90.degree. phase shifted second output, and said carrier has sine and cosine components, said first-mentioned means including means for multiplying said first and second encoder outputs respectively with said cosine and sine carrier components, and said last-mentioned means comprising means for summing and subtracting the resulting products and converting each to an analog voltage. 4. The sensor of claim 3 and means for taking the difference between said analog voltages which is said positive or negative velocity signal. 5. A velocity sensor comprising: an incremental position encoder that has output signals in phase quadrature whose frequency and phase relation depend on the rate and direction of rotation of an object to which the encoder is adapted to be attached; high frequency oscillator means having 90.degree. phase shifted outputs; first means for combining said encoder signals and oscillator outputs; second means for producing from the resulting products two side band frequencies equal to the sum and difference of said encoder signal and oscillator frequencies; and third means for deriving a continuous output signal that is indicative of angular velocity and has a polarity which designates the direction of rotation. 6. The sensor of claim 5 wherein said third means comprises means for converting said side band frequencies to analog voltages and for summing said analog voltages. 7. The sensor of claim 5 wherein said oscillator means is comprised of a negative feedback oscillator and a 90.degree. phase shifter. 8. The sensor of claim 7 wherein said first means is comprised of a four quadrant multiplier. 9. The sensor of claim 8 wherein said second means is comprised of first and second summing amplifiers and an inverter. 10. The sensor of claim 9 wherein said third means is comprised of frequency-to-analog converters and a differential amplifier. 11. The method of generating a velocity signal from an incremental position encoder comprising the steps of: providing dual channel 90.degree. phase shifted outputs from the incremental position encoder whose frequency and phase relation depend on the rate and direction of movement of the encoder; generating a high frequency carrier; amplitude modulating said carrier with said encoder outputs; producing two side bands whose frequencies are the sum and difference of said encoder output and carrier frequencies, with the carrier suppressed; and processing said side bands to yield an output signal indicative of velocity that is continuous through zero rate and has a polarity which designates the direction of movement. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein a carrier with sine and cosine components is generated. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said carrier is modulated by combining said encoder outputs and carrier components. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said side bands are produced by taking the sum and difference of the products of the foregoing modulating step. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said side bands are processed by converting the side band frequencies to analog voltages and taking the difference of said analog voltages. 