A device suitable for controlling a robot operating arm includes a drive link between a driving member and a driven member determines forces and moments acting to resist movement therebetween. The drive link has two parallel plates connected together by three or more bridge members each having an arch configuration in at least one edge. Strain gauges on the bridge members detect mechanical forces and moments acting on the plates. Feedback of the strain gauge signals are used to control vector forces applied by the driving element to the work site of the operating arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measuring forces or moments, or both, in at least three mutually perpendicular directions comprising two rigid plate members that are generally parallel and spaced apart by at least three curved arch segments forming a drive connection therebetween, strain measuring means mounted on each of said arch segments to detect mechanical deformation of each of said segments due to forces and moments imposed between said plates and means for converting said deformations into electrical signals representative of said forces and moments between said plates. 2. A device as described in claim 1 in which each arch segment is shaped with a circular inner surface and a plurality of planar outer surfaces, with two of said outer surfaces making an angle ranging from 30 to 50 degrees from the plane formed by the base of the arch, and strain measuring means mounted on both the circular inner surface and on at least one of the planar outer surfaces. 3. A device as described in claim 1 in which the arch of said segments are shaped with a circular inner surface and three planar outer surfaces, two of said outer surfaces making an angle ranging from 0 to 50 degrees from a plane formed by the base of the arch, and said strain measuring means is mounted on one of said planar outer surfaces. 4. A device as described in claim 1 in which said arch segments are shaped with a circular inner surface and a circular outer surface with strain measuring means mounted on both the inside surface of said arch and on the outer surface of said arch segment. 5. A device as described in claim 1 in which said arch segments are grouped in two pairs with the arches within each pair spaced between 80 and 100 degrees apart around said plates and with the convex portion of each arch segment pointing to a common and adjacent corner of said plates. 6. A device for transmission and measurment of forces and/or moments applied therethrough comprising at least two rigid plates that are substantially parallel to each other and are spaced apart and mutually interact through at least three curved arch segments having strain measuring means mounted on a surface in a plane generally parallel to the curved surface of the arch portions therein to permit strain measurement as a result of deformaton of said arch segment due to forces and moments imposed on said plates. 7. A device comprising two bodies spaced apart and connected by a plurality of bridge segments having curved arches formed on one side edge thereof, and strain measuring means mounted on the opposite edges of each of said segments to measure mechanical deformation of each segment due to forces and moments imposed on said bodies. 