Optical sensing means, such as an optical image-forming system, is provided on the gripper of a robot and positioned to sense an object to be gripped. A signal, such as an image of the object or a portion thereof, is transmitted from the sensor to a remote detector via a fiber optic cable. A control signal, responsive to the detected signal from the sensor, is generated to actuate the robot arm and gripper to effect gripping of the object. The invention has broad applicability in that it is extremely light-weight and can be mounted on the gripper. The invention has particular adaptability to a fluid-actuated robot: in that instance the entire robot, including object sensing means and actuation means, is non-electrical and can be used in explosive environments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a method of controlling a robot, said robot having a moveable arm, a gripper mounted on said arm, and means for actuating said arm and said gripper for gripping an object, said method comprising: providing sensing means for sensing an object to be gripped by said gripper, said sensing means comprising means for generating a sensing signal responsive to the sensing of an object; providing detector means for detecting said sensing signal; transmitting said sensing signal to said detector means; generating a control signal responsive to said detected sensing signal; and transmitting said control signal to said actuating means to effect gripping said object, the improvement being the providing of a plurality of discrete optical sensing means which generate a plurality of optical sensing signals and the mounting of the discrete sensing means on said gripper, the locating of said detector means remote from said arm and gripper, and the transmitting of the plurality of optical sensing signals by a fiber optic cable to the detector means. 2. A method according to claim 1 further comprising providing light source means on said gripper element for directing light onto said object. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein said light source means comprises a fiber optic cable for transmitting light from a source remote from said arm and gripper. 4. A method according to claim 1 and further including the forming of a plurality of images of portions of said object and the transmitting of the plurality of images of said object to said detector. 5. A method according to claim 4 further comprising projecting a pattern of light onto said object whereby said image of said object comprises an image of said pattern of light. 6. A method according to claim 5 further comprising providing on said gripper means for projecting said pattern of light onto said object. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein said pattern is a grid. 8. A method according to claim 4 wherein said gripper is rotatable about the longitudinal axis of said arm and further including the mounting of one of said optical imaging means on said longitudinal axis. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein said detector means provided for detecting comprises a single image scanning device. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said image scanning device provided for detecting comprises a photodetector array. 11. A method according to claim 4 wherein a plurality of images of substantially the same scene at different magnifications are transmitted over said fiber optic cable. 12. A method according to claim 6 wherein said light pattern projecting means comprises a fiber optic cable and a light source remote from said arm and gripper. 13. A method according to claim 4 wherein said image is formed by directing X-rays onto said object, said sensing means comprising a material capable of generating light when exposed to X-rays. 14. A method according to claim 14 wherein said image forming means comprises a lens and the rotating of the viewing axis of said lens. 15. A method according to claim 1 further comprises directing a stream of air onto said optical sensing means to keep said sensing means clean. 16. A method according to claim 4 wherein said image forming means comprises a zoom lens and wherein images of varied magnification of said object are transmitted to said detector. 17. A method according to claim 4 wherein said object is illuminated by a flashed source of light. 18. In an apparatus for controlling a robot, said robot having a moveable arm, a gripper mounted on said arm, and means for actuating said arm and said gripper for gripping an object, said apparatus comprising: optical sensing means for sensing an object to be gripped by said gripper, said sensing means comprising means for collecting a sensing light signal from light received from the object; detector means for detecting said sensing signal; means for transmitting said sensing signal to said detector means; means for generating a control signal responsive to said detected sensing signal; and means for transmitting said control signal to said actuating means to effect gripping said object, the improvement wherein said sensing mean comprises a plurality of discrete optical sensing means mounted on said gripper, wherein said detector means is located remote from said arm and said gripper, wherein said sensing signal is a plurality of optical signals, and wherein said optical sensing signals transmitting means comprises a fiber optic cable. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising light source means on said gripper element for directing light onto said object and which light is subsequently collected by said sensing means. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said light source means comprises a fiber optic cable for transmitting light from a source remote from said arm and gripper to the object. 21. Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said optical sensing means comprises means for forming an image of a plurality of portions of said object. 22. Apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising means for projecting a pattern of light onto said object whereby said image of said object comprises an image of said pattern of light. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22 further comprising means mounted on said gripper means for projecting said pattern of light onto said object. 24. Apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said pattern is a grid. 25. Apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said gripper is rotatable about the longitudinal axis of said arm and wherein one of said optical sensing means for forming an object image comprises an optical imaging means mounted on said longitudinal axis. 26. Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said detector means comprises a single image scanning device. 27. Apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said image scanning device comprises a photodetector array. 28. Apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising means for transmitting a plurality of images of substantially the same scene at different magnifications over said fiber optic cable. 29. Apparatus according to claim 23 wherein said light pattern projecting means comprises a fiber optic cable and a light source remote from said arm and gripper. 30. Apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising means for directing X-rays onto said object to form said image, said sensing means comprising a material capable of generating light when exposed to X-rays. 31. Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said robot comprises fluid means for actuating said arm and gripper, wherein said robot and object are located within an enclosed explosive environment, and wherein said detector means is located outside said explosive environment. 32. Apparatus according to claim 21 wherein one of said optical sensing means comprises a lens and wherein the viewing axis of said lens is rotatable. 33. Apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising means for directing a stream of air onto said optical sensing means keep said sensing means clean. 34. Apparatus according to claim 18 wherein said optical sensing means comprises a window for protecting the optical elements of said sensing means. 35. Apparatus according to claim 21 wherein said image forming means comprises a zoom lens whereby images of varied magnification of said object are transmitted to said detector. 36. Apparatus according to claim 21 further comprising a flashed source of light for illuminating said object. 