A robotic manipulator includes a main upright frame on which two extensible arms are journalled. One of the arms consists of a pair of laterally spaced lead screws connected together at their front and rear ends and the other consists of a lead screw or sprocket-engaged chain connected to the front connected ends of the two lead screws. The motors for extending and retracting the arms are mounted on the main frame. A tool at the forward connected ends of the arms are controlled by parallelogram linkages which are also powered by motors mounted on the main frame.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic manipulator comprising a support frame, a pair of laterally spaced, parallel screws rigidly interconnected at their front ends; a rigid support bracket journalled on said frame for rotation about a generally horizontal first axis; a pair of laterally spaced nuts rotatably supported on said bracket in threaded engagement with said screws; drive means on said bracket for rotating said nuts simultaneously at the same rate and in either direction so as to extend and retract the interconnected screws as a unit; a second support bracket journalled on said frame for rotation about a second axis spaced from and parallel to said first axis; a third screw; means pivotally connecting the front end of the third screw with the connected front ends of the first-mentioned screws; a nut journalled on the second bracket in threaded engagement with the third screw; drive means on the second bracket for rotating the last-mentioned nut in either direction to extend and retract the third screw, said two drive means being operable to rotate their respective nuts in relation to each other to displace the interconnected ends of the three screws along a programmed path in a vertical plane, and a work member supported adjacent the connected forward ends of said screws, said frame and said screws defining a vertically disposed, rigid triangular truss having one side of fixed length corresponding to the distance on said frame between said two axes and the two remaining sides being of variable length and connected adjacent said work member. 2. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 1 wherein said first-mentioned screws are rigidly interconnected by means extending transversely therebetween such that they can be extended and retracted through said nuts substantially throughout their length. 3. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 2 wherein said support frame comprises a pair of side frames rigidly connected together in horizontally spaced relation and said brackets comprise yokes extending between the side frames and journalled thereon. 4. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 3 wherein said screws are disposed between the side frames. 5. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 3 wherein said axes are spaced apart vertically on the side frames. 6. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 5 wherein the first axis is located below the second axis. 7. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 6 wherein said support frame is mounted on the base for rotation about a vertical axis. 8. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 7 including electromechanical means for rotating the support frame on said base. 9. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 8 wherein said electromechanical means includes an electric motor mounted on said support frame to rotate therewith. 10. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 1 wherein said drive means for said nuts comprise electromechanical drive means. 11. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 3 wherein said two axes are spaced apart horizontally and are located above the interconnected ends of the three screws. 12. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 11 including a support base having a pair of laterally spaced, horizontally extending support rails on which laterally opposed portions of said support frame are mounted and means for moving said support frame horizontally along said rails. 13. A robotic manipulator comprising a support frame; a pair of laterally spaced, parallel screws rigidly interconnected at their front and rear ends in laterally spaced parallel relation; a rigid support bracket journalled on said frame for rotation about a generally horizontal first axis; a pair of laterally spaced nuts rotatably supported on said bracket in threaded engagement with said screws, drive means on said bracket for rotating said nuts simultaneously at the same rate and in either direction so as to extend and retract the interconnected screws as a unit; a work member supported at the connected forward ends of said screws; a flexible tension member anchored at one end to and extending rearwardly and upwardly from the connected forward ends of said screws, a circular member journalled on said frame at a second axis above and parallel to said first axis, said flexible member extending around said circular member; and motor means on said frame connected with said flexible member for lengthening and shortening the portion thereof extending between the circular member and said anchored end. 14. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 13 wherein said flexible member comprises a chain, said circular member comprises a sprocket and said motor means comprises a motor driving said sprocket. 15. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 14 wherein said chain has a free end extending downwardly from said sprocket and a counterweight secured to the free end of the chain. 16. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 1 or 13 wherein the forward ends of the first-mentioned screws are interconnected by a cross head, said work member being mounted on said cross head for rotation about a fixed axis and a parallelogram linkage interconnecting said work member and said frame, said parallelogram linkage comprising a first link means mounted on said frame for pivotal movement about a third axis parallel to said first and second axes, a second link means having one end thereof pivotally connected with said cross head at a fourth axis parallel to said third axis, the other ends of both link means being connected together for relative pivotal movement about a fifth axis parallel to the fourth axis and means interconnecting the frame, said link means and said work member for orienting the work member as the screws are extended and retracted. 17. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 16 including motor means on said frame for operating said orienting means. 18. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 17 wherein said parallelogram linkage means includes circular members journalled at each of said third, fourth and fifth axes and endless belt means trained around and in driving engagement with the circular members. 19. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 18 wherein said circular members comprise sprockets and the endless belt means comprise chains engaging said sprockets. 20. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 19 wherein said work member comprises a housing journalled on said cross head at said fourth axis and a tool journalled on said housing for rotation about an axis perpendicular to said fourth axis, said parallelogram linkage means comprising two sets of said link means and two sets of said chains and sprockets, one operatively connected to the housing and the other to said tool. 21. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 20 wherein said motor means comprises two motors on said frame connected one to each of the sprockets at said third axis. 22. A robotic manipulator as called for in claim 1 or 13 wherein said laterally spaced screws are also rigidly interconnected adjacent their rear ends. 