Robot and remote controlled devices have been utilized for information gathering purposes. However these robotic vehicles lack efficiency because they are not capable of operating out of doors or where the sensors and apparatus located on the robots are subject to harsh environments. The present invention provides a new and unique manner of overcoming these problems by providing a platform system that is placed upon existing robots without requiring adjustments to these devices. The platform effectuates easy installation of a plurality of sensors and apparatus on its top surface while providing internal housing for its wires and components, thereby providing a water, dirt and dust resistant environment which leads to better equipment function and ease of maintenance and repair.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for attaching apparatus and sensor devices comprising: An upper portion, a first side, a second side, a front portion and a back portion constructed so as to form a platform, wherein said platform is further constructed so as to house a plurality of said apparatus and said sensors, said apparatus and said sensors being further comprised of at least one component part and at least one wire. 2. A system as recited in claim 1, wherein said upper portion further comprises a top surface having a plurality of plates, each of said plates constructed so as to be screwed onto said upper surface. 3. A system as recited in claim 2, wherein said upper portion further comprises at least two quick-release hinges constructed so as to rapidly release said upper portion of said system. 4. A system as recited in claim 3, wherein said first and second side portions comprise at least one air flow apparatus including filters, fans and vents, constructed so as to prevent wire and component overheating. 5. A system as recited in claim 4, wherein said platform further comprises a base portion, wherein said base portion comprises a plurality of sonar sensors. 6. A system as recited in claim 5, wherein said platform further comprises a plurality of quick release upper hinges, said upper hinges constructed so as to allow said upper portion to be lifted away from said front portion and said base portion. 7. A system as recited in claim 6, wherein said platform further comprises a plurality of gas charged lift supports, said lift supports constructed so as to control the rate of ascent and descent of said upper portion, said lift supports further constructed so as to hold said upper portion in an open position and prevent inadvertent closing of said upper portion. 8. A system as recited in claim 7, wherein said upper portion comprises an inner portion, said inner portion constructed so as to house said wires and said components, said inner portion further comprising a wire housing system constructed so as to effectuate wire tracking, maintenance and removal, said wire housing system further constructed so as to prevent said wire from vibration. 9. A system as recited in claim 8, wherein said inner portion further comprises a plurality of brackets, said brackets constructed so as to house said components within said inner portion, said brackets further constructed so as to stabilize said components and prevent vibration of said components. 10. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein said platform comprises a plurality of quick release lower hinges, said hinges constructed so as to allow said upper portion and said base to be lifted away from said front portion. 11. A system as recited in claim 10, wherein said platform further comprises a support mechanism, said support mechanism further comprising a catch, a rod and a safety cable, said support mechanism further constructed so as to maintain said upper portion and said base in a raised position, said safety cable further constructed so as to prevent said upper portion and said base from opening too far. 12. A system as recited in claim 11, wherein said platform further comprises a plurality of quick release latching mechanisms, said latching mechanisms constructed so as to allow said upper portion and base to be rapidly opened. 13. A system as recited in claim 12, wherein said platform further comprises a plurality of back panels positioned on said back portion of said platform, said back panels further constructed so as to provide quick access to said inner portion of said platform. 14. A system as recited in claim 13, wherein said back portion further comprises a plurality of sonar sensors and an interface panel, said interface panel constructed so as to allow apparatus to be connected to said platform. 15. A system for attaching apparatus and sensor devices comprising: An upper portion, a first side, a second side, a front portion and a back portion constructed so as to form a platform, wherein said platform is further constructed so as to house a plurality of said apparatus and said sensors; said first and second sides each further comprising a removable panel, said removable panel constructed so as to be removable from said first and second sides, said panels further constructed so as to allow access into an inner portion of said platform; wherein said inner portion further comprising a wire housing system constructed so as to house wires connected to said apparatus and sensors, said wire housing system further constructed so as to effectuate wire tracking, maintenance and removal of said wires, said wire housing system further constructed so as to prevent said wire from vibration; wherein said inner portion further comprises a plurality of brackets, said brackets constructed so as to house components connected to said apparatus and sensors within said inner portion, said brackets further constructed so as to stabilize said components and prevent vibration of said components; wherein said platform further comprises a base, said base constructed so as to connect to said platform, said platform comprising a plurality of quick release hinges, said hinges constructed so as to allow said upper portion and said base to be lifted away from said front portion; and wherein said platform and said base further comprising a support mechanism, said support mechanism comprising a catch, a rod and a safety cable, said support mechanism further constructed so as to maintain said upper portion and said base in a raised position, said safety cable further constructed so as to prevent said upper portion and said base from opening too far. 16. A system as recited in claim 15, wherein said platform further comprises a plurality of quick release latching mechanisms, said latching mechanisms constructed so as to allow said upper portion and base to be rapidly opened. 17. A system as recited in claim 16, said front portion further comprises at least one removable panel positioned on said front portion of said platform, said at least one removable panel further constructed so as to provide quick access to said inner portion of said platform. 18. A system as recited in claim 17, wherein said platform further comprises a plurality of back panels positioned on said back portion of said platform, said back panels further constructed so as to provide quick access to said inner portion of said platform. 19. A system as recited in claim 18, wherein said back portion further comprises a plurality of sonar sensors and an interface panel, said panel constructed so as to allow apparatus to be connected to said platform. 