A method is provided for planarization of structures which minimizes step heights, reduces process steps, improves cleanliness, and provides increased ease of debond. Structures are placed with working surfaces facing down onto an adhesive layer such that structures remain fixed during heating. A bi-layer encapsulating film is used to achieve planarization. A carrier is bi-laminated with a thermoplastic film layer followed by a chemically inert protective polymer film layer that can withstand etch and cleaning processes. The thermoplastic layer is laminated on top of the carrier; the polymer layer is laminated on top of the joined thermoplastic layer and carrier. The carrier with bi-layer film is then placed onto the backside of the structures to resist chemical attack from the front side during photostrip and enable planarization. When heat is applied, the bi-layer encapsulating film melts and pushes the polymer layer into the gaps between structures thereby achieving complete planarization.
Claims We claim: 1. A planarization method for a substrate having a first surface for etching and a second surface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) supporting a layer of adhesive film on a retaining device; (b) positioning the substrate with said first surface against the adhesive film; (c) applying an encapsulating film to the second surface of the substrate; (d) flowing the encapsulating film to encapsulant whereby the encapsulant fills a space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate; (e) hardening the encapsulant; (f) removing the adhesive film to expose the first surface with adjacent encapsulant as a planarized surface. 2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the retaining device comprises a vacuum chuck. 3. The method as in claim 1, wherein said step of applying the encapsulating film comprises the steps of: (a) providing a base carrier having a flat surface; (b) supporting the encapsulating film on the flat surface; (c) applying the encapsulating film supported on the carrier to the second surface of the substrate. 4. The method as in claim 1, wherein said flowing step comprises the step of applying heat to the encapsulating film. 5. The method as in claim 4, further comprising the steps of applying heat to a base carrier supporting the encapsulating film thereby flowing film to encapsulant. 6. The method as in claim 5 further comprising the step of applying pressure to the base carrier during said flowing film to encapsulant thereby maximizing encapsulant coverage and reducing the formation of air bubbles within the encapsulant. 7. A planarization method for a substrate having a first surface for etching and a second surface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) supporting a layer of adhesive film on a retaining device; (b) positioning the substrate with said first surface against the adhesive film; (c) applying an encapsulating film to the second surface of the substrate, wherein the encapsulating film comprises a bi-layer film; (d) flowing the encapsulating film to encapsulant whereby the encapsulant fills a space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate; (e) hardening the encapsulant; (f) removing the adhesive film to expose the first surface with adjacent encapsulant as a planarized surface. 8. The method as in claim 7, wherein said step of applying the encapsulating film comprises the steps of: providing a base carrier having a flat surface; laminating a thermoplastic film layer to the flat surface; and laminating a release film layer to the thermoplastic film layer. 9. The method as in claim 8, wherein the steps of laminating the thermoplastic film layer and release film layer comprises the step of using a hot vacuum laminator. 10. The method as in claim 8, wherein the thermoplastic film layer comprises a conductive thermal plastic film. 11. The method as in claim 10, wherein the conductive thermal plastic film comprises Ablestick. 12. The method as in claim 8, wherein the release film layer comprises a chemically inert protective polymer film. 13. The method as in claim 12, wherein the chemically inert protective polymer film comprises at least one of Polyethylene and Polypropylene. 14. A planarization method for a substrate having a first surface for etching and a second surface, said method comprising: supporting a layer of adhesive film on a retaining device; positioning the substrate with said first surface against the adhesive film; applying an encapsulating film to the second surface of the substrate; flowing the encapsulating film to encapsulant whereby the encapsulant fills a space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate, wherein said flowing step comprises applying heat to the encapsulating film; applying heat to a base carrier supporting the encapsulating film thereby flowing film to encapsulant; hardening the encapsulant; removing the adhesive film to expose the first surface with adjacent encapsulant as a planarized surface; providing a release film layer to fill the space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate; providing a thermoplastic film layer to fill the space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate on the opposite side of the release film layer; cooling the substrate, the adhesive layer, and the base carrier with the encapsulant; providing a hardened encapsulant layer; and removing the adhesive layer such that the first surface of the substrate is exposed. 15. The method as in claim 14, further comprising the step of forming surface patterns on the first surface. 16. The method as in claim 15, further comprising the step of debonding the substrate from the hardened encapsulating layer. 17. The method as in claim 16, wherein the step of debonding comprises a chemical debonding step of dissolving the hardened encapsulating layer thereby causing the substrate to release. 18. The method as in claim 17, further comprising the step of cleaning the substrate. 19. The method as in claim 16, wherein the step of debonding comprises the thermal debonding steps of: (a) applying heat to the hardened encapsulating layer thereby flowing the hardened encapsulating layer to encapsulant, (b) removing the substrate from the encapsulant. 20. The method as in claim 19, further comprising the step of cleaning the substrate. 21. The method as in claim 19, wherein the step of removing the substrate comprises the step of providing a robotic device to remove the substrate. 22. A planarization method for a substrate having a first surface for etching and a second surface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) supporting a layer of adhesive film on a retaining device; (b) positioning the substrate with said first surface against the adhesive film; (c) applying an encapsulating film to the second surface of the substrate; (d) flowing the encapsulating film to encapsulant whereby the encapsulant fills a space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate; (e) hardening the encapsulant; (f) removing the adhesive film to expose the first surface with adjacent encapsulant as a planarized surface; and wherein the substrate is applied to the adhesive film by a robotic device. 23. A planarization method for a substrate having a first surface for etching and a second surface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) supporting a layer of adhesive film on a retaining device; (b) positioning the substrate with said first surface against the adhesive film; (c) applying an encapsulating film to the second surface of the substrate; (d) flowing the encapsulating film to encapsulant whereby the encapsulant fills a space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate; (e) hardening the encapsulant; (f) removing the adhesive film to expose the first surface with adjacent encapsulant as a planarized surface; and wherein at least said step of flowing the encapsulating film to encapsulant is performed in a vacuum. 