A cassette stocker includes a plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned adjacent a cleanroom wall and vertically disposed relative to a plurality of cassette docking stations, and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations. An interstation transfer apparatus includes a support beam and a transfer arm adapted to carry a cassette between processing stations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fabrication system, comprising: a first processing station to perform a process on a substrate, the first processing station having a first docking station, a first frame, a plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the first frame and positioned above the first docking station, a second docking station positioned above the first docking station, and a cassette mover mounted on the first frame to carry a cassette among the plurality of shelves and the first and second docking stations; a second processing station to perform a process on a substrate, the second processing station having a third docking station, a second frame, a plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the second frame and positioned above the third docking station, a fourth docking station positioned above the third docking station and a cassette mover mounted on the second frame to carry a cassette between the plurality of shelves and the third and fourth docking stations; and an interstation cassette mover to transport a cassette between one of the plurality of shelves of the first processing station and one of the plurality of shelves of the second processing station. 2. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the first processing station performs a first fabrication step. 3. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second processing stations is a metrology system. 4. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the shelves and the first and second docking stations of the first processing station are arranged in vertical columns, the shelves and the third and fourth docking stations of the second processing station are arranged in vertical columns, and the interstation cassette mover transports a cassette between a topmost shelf of each of the first and second processing stations. 5. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the interstation cassette mover includes a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path parallel to a cleanroom wall, and an end effector configured to engage a cassette, the end effector adapted to move vertically relative to the support member. 6. The fabrication system of claim 5, wherein the interstation cassette mover further includes a supporting part mounted between the plurality of cassette storage shelves of the first processing station and the plurality of cassette storage shelves of the second processing station, and wherein the supporting member is movably mounted on the supporting part. 7. The fabrication system of claim 1, wherein the interstation cassette mover includes: a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path parallel to a cleanroom wall; an end effector configured to engage a cassette and adapted to move vertically relative to the support member; and a supporting part mounted between the respective frames of the first and second processing stations, the support member being movably mounted on the supporting part. 8. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a pair of vertically disposed docking stations positionable adjacent a cleanroom wall; a frame; one or more cassette storage shelves, fixedly mounted on the frame, positionable adjacent the cleanroom wall and adjacent the pair of cassette docking stations; and a cassette mover mounted on the frame and disposed adjacent the pair of vertically disposed docking stations and the one or more cassette storage shelves. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the one or more cassette storage shelves are disposed above at least one of the pair of vertically disposed docking stations. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the cassette mover comprises a vertical slider and a lateral slider. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising a loading station disposed adjacent one of the pair of vertically disposed docking stations. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising an enclosure disposed about the pair of vertically disposed docking stations, the loading station, and the one or more cassette storage shelves. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein each docking station of the pair of vertically disposed docking stations includes a respective door adapted to seal a corresponding opening in the cleanroom wall. 14. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the frame is positionable adjacent the cleanroom wall. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein each docking station of the pair of vertically disposed docking stations includes a docking platform adapted to support a cassette, and wherein the frame is at least partially disposed beneath at least one of the docking platforms. 16. A method of operating a processing station, comprising: storing a plurality of cassettes on a plurality of cassette storage shelves, fixedly mounted on a frame which is adjacent a cleanroom wall, the shelves being disposed vertically relative to a pair of vertically disposed docking stations; carrying one of the cassettes to one of the docking stations with a cassette mover, mounted on the frame; removing a substrate from the cassette; performing a metrology process on the substrate; and returning the cassette to the cassette storage shelves with the cassette mover. 17. A semiconductor processing station, comprising: an processing system to perform a process on a substrate; an interface wall separating the processing system from a cleanroom; a pair of vertically disposed docking stations located in the cleanroom and adapted to support a cassette; a pair of openings in the interface wall, each opening positioned between one of the docking stations and the processing system; a wafer transfer robot adapted to transfer a substrate through the openings in the interface wall between the docking stations and the processing system; and a cassette stocker located in the cleanroom, the cassette stocker including, i) a frame; ii) a plurality of shelves fixedly mounted on the frame and aligned in a vertical column above at least one of the pair of docking stations, and iii) a cassette mover mounted on the frame and adapted to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover including a support member positioned adjacent the shelves and movable in a path generally parallel to the shelves, and an end effector slidably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising a loading platform located in the cleanroom adjacent the docking station, and wherein the cassette mover is adapted to carry a cassette between the shelves, the loading platform and the docking stations. 19. The semiconductor processing station of claim 17, wherein the frame is positioned adjacent the interface wall. 20. The semiconductor processing station of claim 19, wherein each docking station of the pair of vertically disposed docking stations includes a docking platform adapted to support a cassette, and wherein the frame is at least partially disposed beneath at least one of the docking platforms. 21. The semiconductor processing station of claim 17, wherein each docking station of the pair of vertically disposed docking stations includes a respective door adapted to seal the respective opening in the interface wall. 22. The semiconductor processing station of claim 17, wherein the end effector is configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a vertical direction and a horizontal direction, and wherein the cassette mover further comprises a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover. 23. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a frame; a plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the frame; a plurality of vertically disposed docking stations; and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover mounted on the frame, having a Support member disposed adjacent the shelves, and being adapted to move in a path generally parallel to the shelves; and an end effector movably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein one or more of the shelves are positioned above at least one of the plurality of docking stations. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein one or more of the shelves are positioned vertically below at least one of the plurality of docking stations. 26. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein each docking station of the plurality of vertically disposed docking stations includes a respective door adapted to seal a corresponding opening in a cleanroom wall. 27. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the end effector is configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a vertical direction and a horizontal direction, and wherein the cassette mover further comprises a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover. 28. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the frame is positionable adjacent a cleanroom wall. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein each docking station of the plurality of vertically disposed docking stations includes a docking platform adapted to support a cassette, and wherein the frame is at least partially disposed beneath at least one of the docking platforms. 30. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a frame; a first and second plurality of cassette storage shelves fixedly mounted on the frame; a first and second plurality of vertically disposed docking stations; and a cassette mover, mounted on the frame, to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover having a support member disposed adjacent the shelves and movable in a path generally parallel to the shelves and an end effector movably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the first plurality of shelves are positioned vertically relative to the first plurality of docking stations and the second plurality of shelves are positioned vertically relative to the second plurality of docking shelves. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein: the first plurality of shelves is arranged in a vertical column positioned vertically relative to the first plurality of vertically disposed docking stations; the second plurality of shelves is arranged in a vertical column positioned vertically relative to the second plurality of vertically disposed docking stations; and the first and second plurality of shelves are separated by a vertical channel sized to permit movement of a cassette therethrough in a vertical direction. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, further comprising a loading platform positioned vertically below the vertical channel. 34. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an upper one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open upwardly, and a lower one of the vertically disposed docking stations comprises a door adapted to open downwardly. 35. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the frame is positionable adjacent a cleanroom wall. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein each docking station of the first and second plurality of vertically disposed docking stations includes a docking platform adapted to support a cassette, and wherein the frame is at least partially disposed beneath at least one of the docking platforms. 37. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein each of the first and second plurality of vertically disposed docking stations includes a respective door adapted to seal a corresponding opening in a cleanroom wall. 38. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the end effector is configured to engage a cassette by moving in at least one of a vertical direction and a horizontal direction, and wherein the cassette mover further comprises a mechanism adapted to impart movement to the cassette mover. 39. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a plurality of cassette storage shelves; a plurality of vertically disposed docking stations; and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover having a support member disposed adjacent the shelves, and being adapted to move in a path generally parallel to the shelves; and an end effector movably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette; wherein one or more of the shelves are positioned vertically below at least one of the plurality of docking stations. 40. A fabrication system, comprising: a first processing station to perform a process on a substrate, the first processing station having a first docking station, a plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned above the first docking station, a second docking station positioned above the first docking station, and a cassette mover to carry a cassette among the plurality of shelves and the first and second docking stations; a second processing station to perform a process on a substrate, the second processing station having a third docking station, a plurality of cassette storage shelves positioned above the third docking station, a fourth docking station positioned above the third docking station and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the plurality of shelves and the third and fourth docking stations; and an interstation cassette mover to transport a cassette between one of the plurality of shelves of the first processing station and one of the plurality of shelves of the second processing station; wherein an upper one of the first and second docking stations comprises a door adapted to open upwardly, and a lower one of the first and second docking stations comprises a door adapted to open downwardly; and wherein an upper one of the third and fourth docking stations comprises a door adapted to open upwardly, and a lower one of the third and fourth docking stations comprises a door adapted to open downwardly. 41. An apparatus for storing cassettes, comprising: a first and second plurality of cassette storage shelves; a first and second plurality of vertically disposed docking stations; and a cassette mover to carry a cassette between the shelves and the docking stations, the cassette mover having a support member disposed adjacent the shelves and movable in a path generally parallel to the shelves and an end effector movably connected to the support member and configured to engage a cassette; wherein the first plurality of shelves are positioned in a vertical column relative to the first plurality of docking stations and the second plurality of shelves are positioned in a vertical column relative to the second plurality of docking shelves; and wherein the first and second plurality of shelves are separated by a vertical channel sized to permit movement of a cassette therethrough in a vertical direction. 42. The apparatus of claim 41, further comprising a loading platform positioned vertically below the vertical channel. 