An automatic integrated circuit testing system, device and method using an integrative computer. The system includes a machine frame having at least one testing computer for holding and testing the integrated circuit. The machine frame also has at least one automatic plugging/unplugging machine for engaging the integrated circuits with the computer system and removing the integrated circuits after testing has been completed. The machine frame further includes at least one controller device electrically connected to the testing computer and the automatic plugging/unplugging machine for controlling the movements of the automatic plugging/unplugging machine and the testing computer. The testing computer and the integrated circuit together form an integrative computer system capable of executing various general application programs and special testing programs for integrative testing and analysis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic integrated circuit testing system using an integrative computer, comprising: at least one testing computer for carrying and testing an integrated circuit; at least one automatic plugging/unplugging machine for connecting the integrated circuit into the testing computer and removing the integrated circuit out of the testing computer after the testing; and at least one controller device electrically connected to the testing computer and the automatic plugging/unplugging machine for controlling the movement of the automatic plugging/unplugging machine and the testing conducted by the testing computer; wherein the testing computer with the integrated circuit connected thereto forms an integrative computer without including the automatic plugging/unplugging machine and the controller device. 2. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the testing computer further comprises a connector for connection with the integrated circuit. 3. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises an image sensor connected to the controller device for monitoring operating states of the testing computer by monitoring an output image thereof. 4. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises an audio sensor connected to the controller device for monitoring an audio output from the testing computer. 5. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a temperature control device for controlling testing temperature of the integrated circuit. 6. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the automatic plugging/unplugging machine includes a robotic arm. 7. The testing system of claim 3, wherein the image sensor includes a charge-coupled device. 8. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit is selected from a group comprising of a central processing unit, a system bus controller, an input/output bus controller and a graphics accelerator. 9. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the controller device includes a computer. 10. The testing system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises an integrated circuit supply device for holding the integrated circuit before testing; an integrated circuit sorting device having a plurality of storage areas for putting the integrated circuit after testing; and an automatic transport device for transferring the integrated circuit during testing. 11. An automatic integrated circuit testing method using an integrative computer, which does not include a controller device with a plugging/unplugging machine, comprising the steps of: providing a testing computer for holding and testing an integrated circuit; engaging the integrated circuit with the testing computer such that the integrated circuit and the testing computer are electrically connected to form an integrative computer; instructing the integrative computer to execute a predetermined testing program; providing an image sensor for sensing output images produced by the integrative computer during testing program execution; and determining if the integrated circuit is normal according to the output images captured by the image sensor. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of engaging the integrated circuit with the testing computer is carried out through an automatic plugging/unplugging machine. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of executing the predetermined testing program further comprises controlling the temperature of the integrated circuit. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the integrative computer further comprises a controller device that controls the following steps: engaging the integrated circuit with the testing computer such that the integrated circuit and the testing computer are electrically connected; instructing the integrative computer to execute a predetermined program; monitoring output images from the integrative computer through the image sensor; and determining if the integrated circuit is normal according to the images captured by the image sensor. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the integrative computer further comprises control steps of: holding the integrated circuit before testing by an integrated circuit supply device; moving the integrated circuit during testing by an automatic transport device; and arranging the integrated circuit into a plurality of storage areas of an integrated circuit sorting device according to testing results. 16. An automatic integrated circuit testing device using an integrative computer, comprising: a testing computer for holding and testing an integrated circuit, wherein the testing computer with the integrated circuit connected thereto forms an integrative computer to carry out integrative testing, wherein the integrative computer does not include a controller device with a plugging/unplugging machine; and an image sensor for monitoring dynamic operating states of an image output of the testing computer while the testing computer executes a predetermined testing program so that conditions of the integrated circuit is assessed from test results. 17. The integrative testing device of claim 16, wherein the testing computer further comprises a connector for engaging the integrated circuit with the testing computer electrically. 18. The integrative testing device of claim 16, wherein the device further comprises a temperature control device for controlling the temperature of the integrated circuit. 19. An automatic integrated circuit testing system using an integrative computer system, comprising: a plurality of testing computers with each testing computer capable of holding and testing an integrated circuit, wherein the testing computers each with a corresponding integrated circuit connected thereto form a plurality of integrative computers and each of the integrative computers executes a plurality of general application programs or special application programs for integrative testing; an automatic transport device for fetching integrated circuits and delivering the integrated circuits to the testing computers, and sorting out the tested integrated circuits according to test results of each of the integrated circuits; at least one automatic plugging/unplugging machine for moving the automatic transport device to the testing computers and engaging the integrated circuits with a corresponding one of the testing computers so that the integrated circuits and the testing computers are electrically connected, wherein the integrative computers do not include the automatic transport device and the automatic plugging/unplugging machine; and at least one image sensor for real-time monitoring of a testing operation. 20. The testing system of claim 19, wherein the system further comprises a controller device that connects with the testing computers, the image sensor, the automatic transport device and the automatic plugging/unplugging machine, the controller device monitors operating states of the integrative computers and the image sensor, and controls a movement of the automatic transport device and the automatic plugging/unplugging machine so that an entire testing procedure is supervised. 21. The testing system of claim 19, wherein the system further comprises a temperature control device for controlling the operating temperatures of various integrated circuits. 22. An automatic integrated circuit testing method using an integrative computer system, comprising the steps of: transferring at least one integrated circuit from an integrated circuit storage device to at least one testing computer, and engaging the at least one integrated circuit with the at least one testing computer to form each of at least one integrative computer by an automation device, wherein the integrative computer does not include a transporting device and a plugging/unplugging machine; instructing the at least one integrative computer to execute a testing program; and monitoring outputs from the at least one integrative computer to determine if the integrated circuit is normal. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the testing system further comprises a controller device for controlling a plurality of automation devices during a testing operation. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the outputs from the integrative computer are image outputs and are monitored by an image sensor. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein after testing the integrated circuit, the integrated circuit is sorted into appropriate bins. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein temperature of the integrated circuit is controlled during a testing operation. 27. The method of claim 22, wherein the testing computer includes at least a first testing computer and a second testing computer each having a different hardware structure. 28. The method of claim 22, wherein the testing computer includes a first testing computer and a second testing computer, the first testing computer executes a first testing program and the second testing computer executes a second testing program different from said first test program. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein the integrated circuit is tested by the first testing computer and the second testing computer. 30. The method of claim 23, wherein the controller device includes a computer. 