A tooling plate to fixture a workpiece for a vehicle subassembly is provided, including a planar body 10 for supporting fixture tools 32, 34 for holding a workpiece, a connector mechanism to allow the planar body 10 to be removably connected with a workpiece presenter 50, and a locater mechanism 70, 72, 74 to locate the planar body 10 with respect to the workpiece presenter 50 in a repeatable manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tooling plate assembly for mounting a workpiece for a vehicle subassembly, the tooling plate assembly comprising: a tooling plate including: a first surface adapted to receive the workpiece, a second surface disposed opposite the first surface, a channel disposed proximate the second surface, a first block plate disposed proximate the channel, the first block plate including a first step; and a second block plate disposed proximate channel, the second block plate having a second step and a third step disposed adjacent to the second step; and a workpiece presenter including: a first heel block having a first mating surface and a first locating portion extending from the first mating surface, and a second heel block having a second mating surface and second and third locating portions extending from the second mating surface; wherein the first heel block is adapted to receive the first block plate such that the first step engages the first locating portion and the second heel block is adapted to receive the second block plate such that the second and third steps engage the second and third locating portions, respectively, to locate the tooling plate with respect to the workpiece presenter in a repeatable manner. 2. The tooling plate assembly of claim 1 wherein the first block plate further comprises a hole adapted to receive a fastener extending from the first heel block. 3. The tooling plate assembly of claim 1 wherein the second block plate further comprises a hole adapted to receive a fastener extending from the second heel block. 4. The tooling plate assembly of claim 1 wherein the first surface has a planar configuration. 5. The tooling plate assembly of claim 1 further comprising a standoff disposed proximate the channel, the standoff being adapted to support the tooling plate when the tooling plate is removed from the workpiece presenter and disposed on a support surface. 6. The tooling plate of claim 5 wherein the first and second block plates are spaced apart from the support surface when the standoff supports the tooling plate. 7. The tooling plate assembly of claim 1 further comprising a first channel and a second channel spaced apart from and extending parallel to the first channel. 8. The tooling plate assembly of claim 7 wherein the first and second block plates are disposed proximate the first channel. 9. The tooling plate assembly of claim 7 further comprising a third block plate disposed proximate the first channel. 10. The tooling plate assembly of claim 7 further comprising a third block plate disposed proximate the second channel. 11. The tooling plate assembly of claim 7 wherein a first set of standoffs is disposed proximate the first channel and a second set of standoffs is disposed proximate the second channel. 12. The tooling plate assembly of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of mounting holes disposed proximate the first surface, each mounting hole being adapted to receive a fastener for mounting a fixture configured to receive the workpiece. 13. The tooling plate assembly of claim 12 wherein the plurality of mounting holes are arranged in a grid pattern such that each mounting hole is spaced apart from at least two other mounting holes by a common distance. 14. The tooling plate assembly of claim 1 wherein the workpiece presenter further comprises a platform and the first and second block plates are disposed proximate the platform. 