A first embodiment of the present application is directed to a method and system used to weld a cylindrical workpiece. A substantially cylindrical workpiece is loaded into a workpiece support, and a robotic welding arm is positioned located at a start position. A value representing a size of the cylindrical workpiece is input into a robot controller via a system interface. Inputting of the size value to the robotic interface obtains a control program. Operation of the obtained control program is initiated by an operator, causing the robot arm to move a preprogrammed distance toward a work surface of the workpiece. Then a welding process is performed by the welder carried on the robot arm in accordance with the control program. The process includes initiating operation of the welder, and moving the welder in a pattern appropriate for the welding operation. The workpiece and welder are moved relative to each other so as to perform the welding process as determined by the control program.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of welding a cylindrical workpiece by use of a robotic welding system, the method comprising: loading a substantially cylindrical workpiece into a workpiece support; positioning a robot arm, carrying a welder, to a start position; inputting by an operator a value representing a size of the cylindrical workpiece, to a robot controller via a robotic interface; obtaining a control program, corresponding to the value input to the robotic interface; initiating operation of the control program; moving the robot arm a preprogrammed distance towards a work surface of the workpiece, based on instructions from the control program; undertaking a welding procedure in accordance with instructions from the control program including, initiating operation of the welder; moving the welder in a pattern appropriate for the welding process being undertaken in accordance with the control program; and moving at least one of the workpiece and welder relative to each other so as to perform the welding operation as determined by the control program. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the control program is one of a plurality of control programs are a family of control programs stored in the robotic controller, and wherein the plurality of control programs correspond to different sizes of workpieces. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein control programs of the family of control programs are at least ninety percent identical to other control programs of the family of control programs. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the control programs corresponding to different sizes of workpieces include instructions to perform the welding operation within different welding times dependent upon the size of the workpiece. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the welding time will determine speed at which the workpiece is rotated by the workpiece support. 6. The method according to claim 1, including positioning the workpiece support a distance from the ground, wherein a first cylindrical workpiece portion is welded to a second cylindrical workpiece portion, the second cylindrical workpiece portion having a section in a different horizontal plane than the first cylindrical workpiece portion. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the head stock includes a motor for rotating the workpiece, integrated with the robotic controller, wherein the operation of the motor is controlled by the control program. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the control program is a single control program stored in the robot controller, wherein inputting of a size value of workpiece causes the control program to be loaded with specific time or position values to replace variables within the control program, such replacement customizing the control program for the selected size value. 9. The method according to claim 1, further including manipulating the location of the welding torch via a manipulation control mechanism while the welding operation, controlled by the control program, is being performed. 10. The method according to claim 1, further including manipulating the location of the robotic arm via a manipulation control mechanism while the welding procedure, controlled by the control program, is being performed. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the control program is designed to perform at least a first welding pass. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the first welding pass employs a first welding process and a second welding pass employs a second welding process, different from the first welding process. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the moving from the first welding procedure to the second welding process occurs automatically without operator action. 14. The method according to claim 12, wherein the first pass performs a surface tension transfer welding process. 15. The method according to claim 11, wherein the first pass performs an open-root weld. 16. The method according to claim 11, wherein the time to perform the first pass in seconds is found by the formula: 17. The method according to claim 11, wherein the time to perform first root pass in seconds is found by the formula: 18. The method according to claim 11, wherein a total time to perform a multi-pass welding procedure is found by the formula: 19. The method according to claim 11, wherein a total time to perform a multi pass welding procedure is found by the formula: 20. The method according to claim 11, wherein the second pass is started at a location different from the starting location of the first pass. 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the starting position of the second pass is 180.degree. from the starting location of the first pass. 22. The method according to claim 1, wherein the control program causes the welding system to perform a first welding pass, wherein after the first pass, the welding torch is moved a preprogrammed vertical distance away from the workpiece. 23. The method according to claim 1, wherein the robotic welding system is provided with six degrees of movement via the robotic welder arm. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the integrated motor provides a seventh degree of movement to the robotic welding system. 25. A method of automatically welding a substantially cylindrical workpiece via a robotic welding system, the method comprising: loading a substantially cylindrical workpiece to a workpiece support, positioning a robot arm holding a welder to a start position, relative to the position of the workpiece, inputting to a robot controller, via a robotic interface, a diameter of the workpiece, selecting, automatically by the robot controller, a control program, from a family of control programs stored in the robot controller, configured to control the robotic welding system to weld a workpiece having a diameter substantially equal to the input diameter size, initiating operation of the selected control program including, (i) moving the robot arm, carrying the welder, a preprogrammed horizontal distance towards a bevel of the workpiece, (ii) undertaking a welding procedure by the welder, including initiating operation of the welding torch, (iii) moving the welder in a pattern prescribed by the control program, and (iv) moving the workpiece and welder relative to each other so as to perform the welding operation as determined by the control program; operating a manipulator to provide a manually provided refinement to operation of the control program, wherein the control program continues operation during operation of the manipulator. 