A method of importing a plurality of data from a physical data storage device into a virtual tape library system that is used with a data protection application. The virtual tape library system is usable with an existing data protection application designed for use with a physical tape library without modifying the existing data protection application. The method includes: triggering a signal representing a command to import the plurality of data from the physical data storage device; providing a controller that receives the signal; providing a data storage medium in communication with the controller, the data storage medium has at least one virtual library defined thereon; and copying at least a portion of the plurality of data from the physical data storage device to a virtual tape.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of importing a plurality of data from a physical data storage device into a virtual tape library system that is used with a data protection application, the virtual tape library system being usable with an existing data protection application designed for use with a physical tape library without modifying the existing data protection application, the method comprising: providing a user interface styled for manipulating a virtual tape library in a manner similar to that used to manipulate a physical tape library, the user interface having a plurality of user selectable fields; transmitting a signal in response to the manipulation of one of the user selectable fields; providing a controller that receives the signal; providing a data storage medium in communication with the controller, the data storage medium having at least one virtual library defined thereon, each virtual library being capable of having a plurality of virtual tapes defined therein, the data storage medium being capable of storing the plurality of data in response to signals received by the controller; establishing communication between the data storage medium and the physical data storage device; and copying at least a portion of the plurality of data from the physical data storage device to a virtual tape. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing the data protection application, the data protection application being in communication with the virtual tape library; and sending the signal at the initiation of the data protection application to the controller. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the virtual tape library performs data storage and retrieval functions so that a physical tape library can be eliminated for primary backup operations. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the data storage medium, in combination with the at least one virtual tape library, forms a cache for a physical tape library. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of copying further comprises copying substantially all data contained in the physical data storage device onto a virtual tape. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of copying further comprises: copying a portion of the plurality of data from the physical data storage device into the virtual tape library; determining whether the physical data storage device should be overwritten by having the data protection application identify the physical data storage device using the portion of the plurality of data. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of copying further comprises halting the copying process when the portion of the plurality of data can be used to confirm that corresponding data is already present in a virtual tape and/or virtual library. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of copying further comprises interrupting and/or halting the copying to allow the data protection application to directly read from and/or write to the physical data storage device. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising placing a virtual bar code on the virtual tape that receives the plurality of data from the physical data storage device, the virtual bar code corresponds to a label associated with the physical data storage device. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data is copied to the physical data storage device in a non-proprietary format. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising stacking a plurality of physical data storage devices, each of the physical data storage devices being stored as a separate virtual tape to increase a number of tapes that the data protection application registers as being contained in a library. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the copying from the physical data storage device comprises copying from a physical tape. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the copying from the physical data storage device comprises copying from a removable drive. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing at least one graphical image on the user interface styled to identify a physical data storage device. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising selecting the plurality of data to import by selecting the at least one graphical image corresponding to the physical data storage device containing the desired data. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising a user moving or copying the at least a portion of the plurality of data using a drag and drop operation. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of copying further comprises allowing the data protection application to directly read from and/or write to the physical data storage device while other data is being copied from the physical data storage device. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking the virtual tape containing the portion of the plurality of data to determine whether any data changes are made to the virtual tape. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising alerting a user when the portion of the plurality of data has been unchanged and is requested for export to a physical data storage device. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking the physical data storage device from which the portion of the plurality of data was copied to determine whether any data changes are made to the physical data storage device. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising generating a signal when no data changes to the physical data storage device have been made and a trigger is received to copy the portion of the plurality of data to the physical data storage device. 