A remotely controlled submersible vehicle comprises a fore section and an aft section. In use, they are held apart from each other, such as by telescopic arms, in order to define a gap within which a payload is received. This keeps the payload near the center of the vehicle, improving the balance of the vehicle and minimizing any threat of disruption to the wash path of thrusters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An independently mobile submersible vehicle comprising: two vehicle sections; at least one independently operable, remotely controlled thruster on at least one of the two sections for providing said submersible vehicle with said independent mobility, at least one of said sections comprising a robot arm which is operable for performing a task at a subsea installation; each of said vehicle sections having a respective connection member, said connection members being operable for joining said vehicle sections to each other along a longitudinal direction; said vehicle sections defining respective cross-sectional shapes, defined transversely to said longitudinal direction, the respective cross-sectional shapes of said two vehicle sections being substantially the same so as to form a compact vehicle when connected together; said vehicle sections defining a gap therebetween, for accommodating a payload within said gap, said payload within said gap being disposed away from a wash path of said thruster. 2. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the gap between the two sections is adjustable, in use, whereby to accommodate a range of payload sizes. 3. A vehicle according to claim 2, wherein the connection members are adjustable to change the width of the gap. 4. A vehicle according to claim 2, wherein the connection members are adjustably attached to the two sections to allow the width of the gap to be changed. 5. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein each section comprises a respective connection member operable to connect the section to a payload, whereby in use, the sections are connected together solely by a payload. 6. A vehicle according to claim 5, wherein the connection members are operable to connect the sections to each other, in the event that the vehicle is not required to carry a payload. 7. A vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising a lifting connection for attachment to a lifting device for lifting the vehicle, the lifting connection being provided on the vehicle at a position which is adjustable, to allow the position of the lifting connection to be changed relative to the combined center of gravity of the vehicle and any payload carried by the vehicle. 8. A vehicle according to claim 7, the lifting connection being provided by a connector located on each side of the lifting device, the connector being connectable to a series of apertures incrementally spaced along the vehicle in the fore or aft directions. 9. A vehicle according to claim 8, comprising a respective independently operable thruster on each of the two sections for providing said submersible vehicle with said independent mobility. 10. A vehicle according to claim 7, the lifting connection being provided by a rail along which the lifting device can run in the fore or aft directions. 11. A vehicle according to claim 10, comprising a respective independently operable thruster on each of the two sections for providing said submersible vehicle with said independent mobility. 12. A vehicle according to claim 7, the lifting connection being provided by a triangular frame the first and second corners of which are connected to the vehicle, the corners of the triangles containing pivot points such that the angles between the sides of the triangular frame are alterable and wherein at the length of at least one of the sides of the triangular frame is adjustable such that on adjustment thereof, the position of the third corner is alterable with respect to the fore and aft ends of the vehicle. 13. A vehicle according to claim 12, comprising a respective independently operable thruster on each of the two sections for providing said submersible vehicle with said independent mobility. 14. A vehicle according to claim 7, wherein said lifting connection is provided on a connection member which connects the two sections of the vehicle. 15. A vehicle according to claim 14, wherein said connection member is a telescopic arm. 16. A vehicle according to claim 15, wherein said lifting connection comprises a hole in said telescopic arm. 17. A vehicle according to claim 14, wherein said lifting connection comprises a hole in said connection member. 18. A vehicle according to claim 7, comprising a respective independently operable thruster on each of the two sections for providing said submersible vehicle with said independent mobility. 19. A vehicle according to claim 7, wherein said position of said lifting connection on the vehicle is adjustable remotely. 20. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the vehicle is divided substantially transversely, whereby the sections are located, in use, fore and aft of the gap. 21. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the vehicle is divided substantially longitudinally, whereby the sections are located in use, to either side of the gap. 22. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the vehicle is divided at or near the center of gravity of the unloaded vehicle, whereby the center of gravity of a payload introduced into the gap is at or close to the center of gravity of the vehicle. 23. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein each section carries equipment which contributes to the maneuverability and/or buoyancy of the vehicle. 24. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein said at least one thruster is capable of moving said vehicle both vertically and horizontally. 25. A vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising a payload connected to each of said sections, wherein said payload is contained entirely within said gap, said gap being defined by outer dimensions of said sections. 26. A vehicle according to claim 25, wherein said payload is disposed away from a wash path of said at least one thruster. 27. A vehicle according to claim 25, wherein said payload has a frame which contributes to the strength of the vehicle. 28. A vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising a payload, wherein said payload has a frame which contributes to the strength of the vehicle. 29. A vehicle according to claim 1, wherein said gap is defined such that a payload will be disposed away from a wash path of said at least one thruster. 30. A vehicle according to claim 1, comprising a respective independently operable thruster on each of the two sections for providing said submersible vehicle with said independent mobility. 31. A vehicle according to claim 30, wherein said thrusters are capable of moving said vehicle both vertically and horizontally. 