Devices, systems, and methods for compensate for friction within powered automatic systems, particularly for telesurgery and other telepresence applications. Dynamic friction compensation may comprise applying a continuous load in the direction of movement of a joint, and static friction compensation may comprise applying alternating loads in positive and negative joint actuation directions whenever the joint velocity reading falls within a low velocity range.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of compensating for friction in an apparatus having at least one component selectively moveable in a positive component direction and a negative component direction, and an actuator operatively connected to the component, the method including obtaining a component velocity reading; defining a velocity reading region extending between a selected negative velocity reading and a selected positive velocity reading; generating a duty cycle signal having a distribution between a positive duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force in the positive component direction and a negative duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force in the negative component direction, the distribution being determined by the component velocity reading when within the velocity reading region; and loading the actuator with a load defined by the duty cycle signal. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, which further includes generating a duty cycle signal having a continuous positive duty cycle magnitude corresponding to the friction compensation force in the positive component direction when the component velocity reading is greater than the selected positive velocity reading. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, which further includes generating a duty cycle signal having a continuous negative duty cycle magnitude corresponding to the friction compensation force in the negative component direction when the component velocity reading is less than the selected negative velocity reading. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the distribution of the duty cycle signal is proportional to the component velocity reading position within the velocity reading region. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a variable load supply model. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a gravity compensation model. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the gravity compensation model determines a variable gravity compensation force to be applied to the component to compensate for gravity, and the method further includes determining a corresponding frictional compensation force from the gravity compensation force for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, which further includes modifying the corresponding frictional compensation force for each of the positive and the negative component direction with a predetermined factor when the component velocity reading is within a region extending between a selected velocity reading in the positive component direction and a selected velocity reading in the negative component direction. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the factor is equal to one at the selected velocity readings and outside the region and is at a predetermined value greater than one at a zero velocity reading. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the value of the factor increases from the selected velocity readings to the value of the factor at the zero velocity reading. 11. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from fixed frictional compensation force values corresponding to the actual frictional compensation required for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 12. A method as claimed in claim 11, which further includes modifying the frictional compensation force value for each of the positive and the negative component direction with a predetermined factor when the component velocity reading is within a region extending between a selected velocity reading in the positive component direction and a selected velocity reading in the negative component direction. 13. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the factor is equal to one at the selected velocity readings and outside the region and is at a predetermined value greater than one at a zero velocity reading. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the value of the factor increases from the selected velocity readings to the value of the factor at the zero velocity reading. 15. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the actuator is an electric motor and the duty cycle signal is generated at a predetermined frequency which is less than electrical time constants of the electric motor and greater than mechanical time constants of a transmission between the electric motor and the component. 16. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the duty cycle signal is generated at a predetermined frequency falling in the range between 40 Hz and 70 Hz. 17. A method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the duty cycle signal is generated at a predetermined frequency falling in the range between 50 Hz and 60 Hz. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the duty cycle signal is generated at a predetermined frequency of about 55 Hz. 19. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the actuator is in the form of an electric motor, loading the actuator with a load defined by the duty cycle including passing the duty cycle to an amplifier and causing the amplifier to supply electric current to the electric motor as defined by the duty cycle signal. 20. A method of compensating for friction in an apparatus having at least one component selectively moveable in a positive component direction and a negative component direction, and an actuator operatively connected to the component, the method including obtaining a component velocity reading; defining a velocity reading region extending between a selected negative velocity reading and a selected positive velocity reading; and modifying a frictional compensation force to be applied to the component by a factor determined when the velocity reading is within the velocity reading region. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20, wherein the factor is equal to one at the selected velocity readings and outside the region and is at a predetermined value greater than one at a zero velocity reading. 22. A method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the value of the factor increases from the selected velocity readings to the value of the factor at the zero velocity reading. 23. A friction compensation system including at least one component selectively moveable in a positive component direction and a negative component direction, and an actuator operatively connected to the component, the friction compensation system including a sensor operatively associated with the component so as to obtain a component velocity reading; a duty cycle generator operatively connected to the sensor and arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a distribution extending between a positive duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force to be applied in the positive component direction and a negative duty cycle magnitude corresponding to a friction compensation force to be applied in the negative component direction, the distribution being determined by a component velocity reading when within a velocity reading region extending between a selected positive velocity reading and a selected negative velocity reading; and a load supplier for loading the actuator with a load defined by the duty cycle signal. 24. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a fully positive duty cycle magnitude corresponding to the required friction compensation force in the positive component direction in response to the component velocity reading being greater than the selected positive velocity reading. 25. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a fully negative duty cycle magnitude corresponding to the required friction compensation force in the negative component direction in response to the component velocity reading being less than the selected negative velocity reading. 26. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate a duty cycle signal having a distribution which is proportional to the component velocity reading position within the velocity reading region. 27. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a variable load supply model. 28. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from a gravity compensation model. 29. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 28, wherein the gravity compensation model determines a variable gravity compensation force to be applied to the component to compensate for gravity and the friction compensation system determines a corresponding frictional compensation force from the gravity compensation force for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 30. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, which further includes a modifying arrangement for modifying the corresponding frictional compensation force for each of the positive and the negative component directions with a predetermined factor when the component velocity reading is within a region extending between a selected velocity reading in the positive component direction and a selected velocity reading in the negative component direction. 31. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 30, wherein the factor is equal to one at the selected velocity readings and outside the region and is at a predetermined value greater than one at a zero velocity reading. 32. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 31, wherein the value of the factor increases from the selected velocity readings to the value of the factor at the zero velocity reading. 33. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the positive and the negative duty cycle magnitudes are determined from fixed frictional compensation force values corresponding to the actual frictional compensation required for each of the positive and the negative component direction. 34. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 33, which further includes a modifying arrangement for modifying the frictional compensation force value for each of the positive and the negative component direction with a predetermined factor when the component velocity reading is within a region extending between a selected velocity reading in the positive component direction and a selected velocity reading in the negative component direction. 35. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 34, wherein the factor is equal to one at the selected velocity readings and outside the region and is at a predetermined value greater than one at a zero velocity reading. 36. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 35, wherein the value of the factor increases from the selected velocity readings to the value of the factor at the zero velocity reading. 37. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the actuator is in the form of an electric motor and the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency which is less than electrical time constants of the electric motor and greater than mechanical time constants of a transmission between the electric motor and the component. 38. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency falling in the range between 40 Hz and 70 Hz. 39. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 38, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency falling in the range between 50 Hz and 60 Hz. 40. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 39, wherein the duty cycle generator is arranged to generate the duty cycle signal at a predetermined frequency of about 55 Hz. 41. A friction compensation system as claimed in claim 23, wherein the actuators is in the form of an electric motor, and the load supplier includes an amplifier for causing a load in the form of an electrical current to be supplied to the electric motor, the electrical current being defined by the duty cycle signal. 