The present invention provides a welding system and methodology to facilitate communications and control. The system includes a cell controller to control one or more welders over a control network. An interface module associated with the cell controller and the control network communicates with the welders and employs a communications protocol adapted to the interface module to facilitate communications and control between the cell controller and the one or more welders over the control network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system that facilitates welding control, comprising: a singular communications interface module that adds a first welder to a control network associated with a welding system; and a cell controller that concurrently controls the first welder and a second welder previously existent within the welding system by way of the control network. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a communications protocol adapted to the interface module to facilitate communications and control between the cell controller and the first and second welders over the control network, the communications interface module and communications protocol configured according to at least one of Device Net, Control Net, ProfiBus, User Datagram Protocol (UDP), Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), and ArcLink. 3. The system of claim 1, scalable control of the welding system comprises permitting additional welders to be added to the welding system by configuring additional welding system addresses within an augmented welder system. 4. The system of claim 3, the communications interface module is configured to communicate with the additional welding system addresses. 5. The system of claim 1, the cell controller digitally controls the first and second welders over the control network to configure and coordinate the welders. 6. The system of claim 5, the cell controller initiates commands related to at least one of synchronization, adjustment, set-points, trigger signals, gas control settings, and wire control settings, to enhance automation and mitigate manual inputs to the first and second welders during a welding process. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising fault detection and maintenance routines to diagnose problems within the welding system. 8. The System of claim 1, the interface module configured to transfer data between data stores associated with one or more welding systems and a data stare on the cell controller. 9. The system of claim 8, the interface module configured to transfer data between the first and second welders. 10. The system of claim 1, the first and second welders configured in a redundant configuration that has an active welder and a standby welder. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a controller to control switching between the active welder and the standby welder. 12. The system of claim 1, the first and second welders configured in a tandem configuration that has coordinated welders. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising a controller and associated commands to synchronize the coordinated welders over the control network via a universal clock, the commands including at least one of: adjustable time delay commands for starting and stopping a trail or lead arc, time commands and settings for a crater fill of the trail and lead arcs, feedback detection status for arc detection and collision sense, safety stop commands for termination of a weld cycle, trigger commands for on or off timing, sending suitable output command levels per respective welder to achieve a desired weld profile, applying suitable procedures per respective welder to achieve a desired weld profile. 14. A method that facilitates communication in a welding control system, comprising: providing a welding system that comprises a first welder; adding a second welder to the welding system; communicating with and digitally controlling the first and second welders over a scalable control network; providing a communications interface to the control network to communicate and digitally control the first and second welders; and providing a protocol with the interface to facilitate communications and digital control of the first and second welders over the control network. 15. The method of claim 14, associating a welder data store with the first and second welders to retain information related to at least one of welder performance, set-up, health, configuration, and control. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising transferring information from a welder data store over the control network to a data store associated with a cell controller. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising transferring information in a welder data store to at least one other welder data store to facilitate intra-welder file transfer for welder coordination and/or synchronization. 18. A welding system, comprising: means for providing a welding system that comprises a first welder; means for adding the first welder to the welding system; means for adapting the first and second welders from an analog communications mode to a digital communications mode if the first and second welders are not in a digital communications mode; means for digitally communicating with the first and second welders over a scalable control network; means for interfacing to the scalable control network to communicate with the first and second welders; and means for adapting a protocol to facilitate communications with the first and second welders over the scalable control network. 19. The system of claim 18, further comprising means for coordinating and/or synchronizing a plurality of welders to perform complex welds. 