A motion control system for reducing vibration in moving components. The system includes a position control drive and a vibration control drive. At least one position sensor is used to provide feedback signals which are in turn used to provide control signals for both the position control drive and the vibration control drive. In a preferred embodiment the motion control system is applied to a stage of an integrated circuit lithography step and scan machine. The position control drives are linear magnetic actuators and the vibration control drives are electroceramic actuators. A laser interferometer position monitoring system is used to measure the position, speed, and acceleration of the stage system. Actuators apply controlled forces (based on measurements from the position monitoring system) to each stage to control the motion of the stage. Signals from the interferometer position system are also used to control vibration. A recursive least squares (RLS) method is used to identify the commanded motion from the laser interferometer signals. Vibration measurements are derived from the laser interferometer signals by removing the commanded motion portion of the signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vibration reduction system for reducing vibration of a motion controlled component, said vibration reduction system comprising: A) at least one position control drive for moving said motion controlled component, B) at least one position sensor for providing a feedback position signals indicative of positions of said motion controlled component, C) at least one position control system for controlling positions of said motion controlled stage via said at least one position control drive utilizing said feedback signals from said at least one sensor, D) at least one vibration control drive, and E) a computer processor for controlling vibration said processor having been programmed with (1) a separation algorithm for separating vibration signals from said feedback position signals, and (2) a feedback control algorithm for commanding said vibration control drive to reduce vibrations in said motion controlled component. 2. The system as in claim 1 wherein the motion controlled component comprises a portion of a lithography machine. 3. The system as in claim 1 wherein said vibration control drive is an electroactive ceramic actuator. 4. The system as in claim 1 wherein said position control drive is a linear magnetic actuator. 5. The system as in claim 1 wherein said position control drive is a voice coil. 6. A system as in claim 1 wherein said position control drive is a linear motor. 7. The system as in claim 1 wherein said at least one sensor comprises a laser interferometer positioning system. 8. A system as in claim 1 wherein said feedback control algorithm incorporates a linear quadratic regulator solution. 9. A system as in claim 1 wherein said separation algorithm comprises an RLS method and a reconstruction method utilizing a linear quadratic regulator approach. 10. A system as in claim 1 wherein said position control system comprises a processor programmed to move said motion controlled component in a ramp. 11. A system as in claim 1 wherein at least one position sensor comprises an accelerometer. 