A robotic system that includes a remote controlled robot. The robot may include a camera, a monitor and a holonomic platform all attached to a robot housing. The robot may be controlled by a remote control station that also has a camera and a monitor. The remote control station may be linked to a base station that is wirelessly coupled to the robot. The cameras and monitors allow a care giver at the remote location to monitor and care for a patient through the robot. The holonomic platform allows the robot to move about a home or facility to locate and/or follow a patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for remotely operating a robot to monitor a patient, comprising: transmitting a first command to move a mobile robot from a first remote control station; transmitting a second command to move the mobile robot from a second remote control station; determining which command has priority; and, moving the mobile robot in response to the transmitted command with priority. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a video image from the mobile robot to the remote control station. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein an existing video image and a pre-existing video image is transmitted to the remote control station from the mobile robot. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a video image from the remote control station to the mobile robot. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving a drawer of the mobile robot to an open position to dispense a drug. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot autonomously moves to a battery recharger station. 7. A robot, comprising: a housing; a movement platform attached to said housing; a camera attached to said housing; a mass storage device that stores a pre-existing video image of a patient; and, a controller coupled to said movement platform. 8. The robot of claim 7, further comprising an arm coupled to said housing. 9. The robot of claim 8, wherein said arm includes a gripper. 10. The robot of claim 7, further comprising a speaker coupled to said housing. 11. The robot of claim 7, further comprising a microphone coupled to said housing. 12. The robot of claim 7, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said housing. 13. The robot of claim 7, further comprising a battery recharger station, a battery that is coupled to said housing and can be coupled to said battery recharger station, and a power management software routine wherein said holonomic platform moves said housing so that said battery is coupled to said battery recharger station. 14. The robot of claim 7, wherein said movement platform includes a plurality of roller assemblies. 15. The robot of claim 7, wherein said controller runs a routine to moves a drawer of said housing to an open position. 16. A method for monitoring a patient, comprising: storing a pre-existing video image of a patient; capturing an existing video image of the patient; and, transmitting the pre-existing video image and the existing video image to a remote control station. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the robot is remotely controlled. 18. A robot system, comprising: a battery recharger station; a robot housing; a battery coupled to said robot housing; a movement platform attached to said robot housing; a camera attached to said robot housing; and, a controller that is attached to said robot housing and coupled to said movement platform, said controller operates a power management software routine that causes said movement platform to move said robot housing so that said battery is coupled to said battery recharger. 19. The robot system of claim 18, further comprising an arm coupled to said robot housing. 20. The robot system of claim 19, wherein said arm includes a gripper. 21. The robot system of claim 18, further comprising a speaker coupled to said robot housing. 22. The robot system of claim 18, further comprising a microphone coupled to said robot housing. 23. The robot system of claim 18, further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to said robot housing. 24. The robot system of claim 18, wherein said movement platform includes a plurality of roller assemblies. 25. The robot system of claim 18, further comprising a mass storage device that stores a video image. 26. A method for operating a robot, comprising: operating a software routine within a robot to determine whether the robot needs power; and, moving the robot to a battery recharger station when the robot needs power. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the robot is remotely controlled. 28. A system for remotely visiting a person located in a healthcare facility, comprising: a broadband network; a remote station that is coupled to said broadband network, said remote station includes a monitor, a speaker and an input device to generate a robot command; and, a robot that is coupled to said remote station through said broadband network, said robot having a camera that captures video of a person that is transmitted to said remote station and a microphone that captures audio from the person that is transmitted to said remote station, said robot moves across a surface of the healthcare facility in response to receiving said robot command from said remote station. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein said remote station includes a camera and a microphone and said robot includes a monitor and a speaker. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein said robot includes a holonomic platform. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein said robot includes a wireless transceiver. 32. The system of claim 28, wherein said remote station includes a computer. 33. The system of claim 28, wherein said remote station is assigned a family priority. 34. The system of claim 28, wherein said input device is a joystick. 35. The system of claim 28, wherein said broadband network is a packet switched network. 36. The system of claim 28, wherein said robot is located in a hospital. 37. The system of claim 28, wherein said robot is located in a residential care facility. 38. A system for remotely visiting a person located in a healthcare facility, comprising: broadband network means for transmitting information; remote station means for receiving video and audio transmitted through said broadband network means and generating a robot command that is transmitted through said broadband network means; and, robot means for capturing video and audio of a person that is transmitted to said remote station means through said broadband network means, and moving across a surface of the healthcare facility in response to receiving said robot command from said remote station means through said broadband network means. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein said remote station means transmits video and audio to said robot means through said broadband network means. 40. The system of claim 38, wherein said robot means includes a holonomic platform. 41. The system of claim 38, wherein said robot means includes a wireless transceiver. 42. The system of claim 38, wherein said remote station means includes a computer. 43. The system of claim 38, wherein said remote station means is assigned a family priority. 44. The system of claim 38, wherein said remote station means includes a joystick to generate said robot command. 45. The system of claim 38, wherein said robot means is located in a hospital. 46. The system of claim 38, wherein said robot means is located in a residential care facility. 47. A robot system, comprising: a mobile robot that has a camera and a monitor; a first remote station that can access said mobile robot; a second remote station that can access said mobile robot; and, an arbitrator that can control access to said mobile robot by said first and second remote stations. 48. The system of claim 47, wherein said arbitrator includes a notification mechanism. 49. The system of claim 47, wherein said arbitrator includes a timeout mechanism. 50. The system of claim 47, wherein said arbitrator includes a queue mechanism. 51. The system of claim 47, wherein said arbitrator includes a call back mechanism. 52. The system of claim 47, wherein said first and second remote stations each have a priority and said arbitrator provides robot access to said remote station with a highest priority. 53. The system of claim 52, wherein said first and second remote stations may be given priority as a local user, a doctor, a caregiver, a family member, a service user or another mobile robot. 54. The system of claim 47, wherein said arbitrator is located within said robot. 55. A robot system, comprising: a mobile robot that has a camera and a monitor; a first remote station that can access said mobile robot; a second remote station that can access said mobile robot; and, arbitration means for controlling access to said mobile robot by said first and second remote stations. 56. The system of claim 55, wherein said arbitrator means includes notification means for notifying said first remote station that said second remote station is requesting access to said mobile robot. 57. The system of claim 55, wherein said arbitrator means includes timeout means that creates a time interval in which one of said remote stations must relinquish access to said mobile robot. 58. The system of claim 55, wherein said arbitrator means includes queue means for establishing a waiting list of remote stations seeking access to said mobile robot. 59. The system of claim 55, wherein said arbitrator means includes call back means for providing a message to one of said remote stations that said mobile robot can be accessed. 60. The system of claim 55, wherein said first and second remote stations each have a priority and said arbitrator means provides robot access to said remote station with a highest priority. 61. The system of claim 60, wherein said first and second remote stations may be given priority as a local user, a doctor, a caregiver, a family member, a service user or another mobile robot. 62. The system of claim 55, wherein said arbitrator means is located within said robot. 63. A robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a mobile robot that is coupled to said broadband network, and has a camera and a monitor; a first remote station that can access said mobile robot through said broadband network; a second remote station that can access said mobile robot through said broadband network; and, an arbitrator that can control access to said mobile robot by said first and second remote stations. 64. The system of claim 63, wherein said arbitrator includes a notification mechanism. 65. The system of claim 63, wherein said arbitrator includes a timeout mechanism. 66. The system of claim 63, wherein said arbitrator includes a queue mechanism. 67. The system of claim 63, wherein said arbitrator includes a call back mechanism. 68. The system of claim 63, wherein said first and second remote stations each have a priority and said arbitrator provides robot access to said remote station with a highest priority. 69. The system of claim 68, wherein said first and second remote stations may be given priority as a local user, a doctor, a caregiver, a family member, a service user or another mobile robot. 70. The system of claim 63, wherein said arbitrator is located within said robot. 71. A robot system, comprising: a broadband network; a mobile robot that is coupled to said broadband network, and has a camera and a monitor; a first remote station that can access said mobile robot through said broadband network; a second remote station that can access said mobile robot through said broadband network; and, arbitration means for controlling access to said robot by said first and second remote stations. 72. The system of claim 71, wherein said arbitrator means includes notification means for notifying said first remote station that said second remote station is requesting access to said mobile robot. 73. The system of claim 71, wherein said arbitrator means includes timeout means that creates a time interval in which one of said remote stations must relinquish access to said mobile robot. 74. The system of claim 71, wherein said arbitrator means includes queue means for establishing waiting list of remote stations seeking access to said mobile robot. 75. The system of claim 71, wherein said arbitrator means includes call back means for providing a message to one of said remote stations that said mobile robot can be accessed. 76. The system of claim 71, wherein said first and second remote stations each have a priority and said arbitrator means provides robot access to said remote station with a highest priority. 77. The system of claim 76, wherein said first and second remote stations may be given priority as a local user, a doctor, a caregiver, a family member, a service user or another mobile robot. 78. The system of claim 71, wherein said arbitrator means is located within said robot. 