An integrated robotic cell having robot and series of sensors is able to process a component as desired by an operator using an interactive interface display. The integrated robotic cell includes a robotic arm connected a central processor unit as well as a series of monitors and sensors that thoroughly supervise the operation of the robotic arm and component to verify that there are no errors. The central processing unit is connected to the interface display, which allows the operator to control the operation of the robotic cell. The interface display incorporates a series of threads, with each thread having of a series of sequential processes to be performed by the robotic cell. The operator is thereby able to view and easily control the simultaneous processes being performed in the robotic cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated robotic cell for processing a component as directed by an operator, said integrated robotic cell comprising: a robotic arm; a central processing unit connected to said robotic arm, said central processing unit controlling the operation of said robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell; interface means for receiving commands from the operator, said interface means being connected to said central processing unit, said interface means comprising a display device for displaying a plurality of icons, each of said icons corresponding to at least one task to be performed by said robotic cell; and an input sensor connected to said central processing unit, said input sensor positioned proximate said feeder to monitor the position of the component. 2. The integrated robotic cell as described in claim 1, further comprising a frame. 3. The integrated robotic cell as described in claim 1 further comprising: a feeder to direct the component toward said robotic arm. 4. An integrated robotic cell for processing a component as directed by an operator, said integrated robotic cell comprising: a robotic arm; a central processing unit connected to said robotic arm, said central processing unit controlling the operation of said robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell; interface means for receiving commands from the operator, said interface means being connected to said central processing unit; and a frame, wherein said optical sensor means comprises: a first camera connected to said robotic arm and electronically linked to said central processing unit, said first camera monitoring said robotic arm; and a second camera connected to said frame and electronically linked to said central processing unit, said second camera monitoring said robotic cell. 5. An integrated robotic cell for processing a component as directed by an operator, said integrated robotic cell comprising: a robotic arm; a central processing unit connected to said robotic arm, said central processing unit controlling the operation of said robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell; and interface means for receiving commands from the operator, said interface means being connected to said central processing unit, wherein said optical sensor means comprises a camera positioned below said robotic arm, said camera connected to said central processing unit. 6. An integrated robotic cell for processing a component as directed by an operator, said integrated robotic cell comprising: a robotic arm; a central processing unit connected to said robotic arm, said central processing unit controlling the operation of said robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell; interface means for receiving commands from the operator, said interface means being connected to said central processing unit; a feeder to direct the component toward said robotic arm; a reject sensor to monitor the component; and a reject arm connected to said reject sensor to remove the component from said feeder. 7. A robotic cell assembly for precisely controlling the position of a component and a robotic arm within a frame as dictated by an operator, said assembly comprising: a central processing unit for directing the operation of the robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell assembly, said optical sensor means being connected to said central processing unit; an interface display connected to said central processing unit, said interface display communicating commands from the operator to said central processing unit, said commands for controlling operation of the robotic cell assembly; and a frame, wherein said optical sensor means comprises: at least one camera supported by said frame and connected to said central processing unit, said camera monitoring the position of said robotic arm and the component. 8. A robotic cell assembly for precisely controlling the position of a component and a robotic arm within a frame as dictated by an operator, said assembly comprising: a central processing unit for directing the operation of the robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell assembly, said optical sensor means being connected to said central processing unit; an interface display connected to said central processing unit, said interface display communicating commands from the operator to said central processing unit, said commands for controlling operation of the robotic cell assembly; and a frame, wherein said optical sensor means comprises: a first camera connected to said frame and electronically linked to said central processing unit, said first camera monitoring the robotic arm; and a second camera connected to said frame and electronically linked to said central processing unit, said second camera monitoring the robotic cell assembly. 9. A robotic cell assembly for precisely controlling the position of a component and a robotic arm within a frame as dictated by an operator, said assembly comprising: a central processing unit for directing the operation of the robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell assembly, said optical sensor means being connected to said central processing unit; and an interface display connected to said central processing unit, said interface display communicating commands from the operator to said central processing unit, said commands for controlling operation of the robotic cell assembly, wherein said optical sensor means comprises a third camera positioned below said robotic arm, said camera connected to said central processing unit. 10. A robotic cell assembly for precisely controlling the position of a component and a robotic arm within a frame as dictated by an operator, said assembly comprising: a central processing unit for directing the operation of the robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell assembly, said optical sensor means being connected to said central processing unit; an interface display connected to said central processing unit, said interface display communicating commands from the operator to said central processing unit, said commands for controlling operation of the robotic cell assembly, said interface display configured to display a plurality of icons, each of said icons corresponding to at least one task to be performed by said robotic cell assembly; a feeder to direct the component toward said robotic arm; and an input sensor connected to said central processing unit, said input sensor positioned proximate said feeder to monitor the position of the component. 11. A robotic cell assembly for precisely controlling the position of a component and a robotic arm within a frame as dictated by an operator, said assembly comprising: a central processing unit for directing the operation of the robotic arm; optical sensor means for monitoring said robotic cell assembly, said optical sensor means being connected to said central processing unit; and an interface display connected to said central processing unit, said interface display communicating commands from the operator to said central processing unit control operation of the robotic cell assembly; a feeder to direct the component toward said robotic arm; a reject sensor to monitor the component; and a reject arm connected to said reject sensor to remove the component from said feeder. 12. A method for controlling a robotic arm to engage a component within an integrated robotic cell as directed by an operator, said method comprising the steps of: a) providing optical sensing means mounted in the integrated robotic cell to examine the integrated robotic cell; b) continuously sending a signal from said optical sensing means to a central processing unit; c) concomitantly positioning the robotic arm and the component within the integrated robotic cell; and d) controlling the action of the robotic arm by the operator using an interface display, wherein step a) further comprises the steps of: connecting a first camera to a frame to view the integrated robotic cell; and sending a signal from said camera to said central processing unit. 13. The method as described 12 further comprising the steps of: positioning a second camera below the robotic arm, said second camera connected to said central processing unit; and sending a signal from said second camera to said central processing unit. 14. An integrated robotic cell for processing a component as directed by an operator, said integrated robotic cell comprising: a robotic arm; an optical sensor; logic configured to automatically control the operation of said robotic arm based on data from said optical sensor; an interface device configured to receive commands from the operator, the commands for controlling the operation of the robotic arm, the interface device configured to produce an image displaying a plurality of icons, each of said icons corresponding to at least one task to be performed by said robotic cell; and a frame, wherein said optical sensor comprises a first camera connected to said robotic arm and a second camera connected to said frame. 15. An integrated robotic cell for processing a component as directed by an operator, said integrated robotic cell comprising: a robotic arm; a frame; a first camera connected to said robotic arm; a second camera connected to said frame; control logic configured to automatically control the operation of said robotic arm based on data from said first and second cameras; and an interface device configured to receive commands from the operator, the commands for controlling the operation of the robotic arm. 