An intelligent assist system having a modular architecture, coordinated by electronic communication links between the modules, is provided. Motion modules provide an assist upon actuation, and are in communication with computational nodes. Communication links between at least two of the computational nodes carry information between the nodes that actuate a motion module.
Claims We claim: 1. An intelligent assist system having a modular architecture, comprising: a motion module for supporting and moving a payload; a plurality of computational nodes, at least one of the plurality of computational nodes being configured to control the motion module; and a plurality of communication links, at least one of the plurality of communication links being between two of the plurality of computational nodes to carry information between the nodes to actuate the motion module. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the motion module comprises a moveable trolley. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the motion module comprises a lift. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein one of the computational nodes is embedded in the motion module. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the embedded computational node provides communication between a plurality of modules and controls each of the plurality of modules. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein one of the modules comprises a sensor and the embedded computational node provides communication to the module comprising the sensor. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein one of the modules comprises an actuator and the embedded computational node provides communication to module comprising the actuator. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the computational nodes comprise a programmable logic device. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the computational nodes execute motion control algorithms. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein the computational nodes execute automatic motion control algorithms. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the computational nodes store text messages recallable by an operator. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein the communication links implement the CAN protocol. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein the communication links provide access to an information network. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein the communication links provide access to a local area network. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein the communication links access a wide area network. 16. The system of claim 1 wherein the communication links access the Internet. 17. The system of claim 1 wherein the communication links provide remote access and programming of the assist system. 18. The system of claim 1 further comprising a user tooling supported by the motion module. 19. The system of claim 1 further comprising a skew angle sensor. 20. The system of claim 1 further comprising a lateral position sensor. 21. The system of claim 1 further comprising a vertical position sensor. 22. The system of claim 1 further comprising a user actuator. 23. The system of claim 1 further comprising a hub to allow a user to interface with the computational nodes of the system. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein the hub comprises both mechanical support to a tooling or the payload and computational capability. 25. The system of claim 23 wherein the hub comprises a interface for connection of a intent sensor. 26. The system of claim 23 wherein the hub comprises a interface for connection of a user computer for programming of the system. 27. An intelligent assist system comprising: an overhead support; an intelligent assist module constructed and arranged to move a payload, the module being supported by the overhead support; a plurality of computational nodes, wherein at least one of the computational nodes is on the intelligent assist module and is constructed and arranged to control movement of the intelligent assist module; and a communication link that connects two of the plurality of computational nodes, wherein the communication link is configured to carry information between the two computational nodes to actuate the intelligent assist module. 28. A system according to claim 27, wherein the intelligent assist module is a trolley. 29. A system according to claim 27, wherein the module is a lift. 30. A system according to claim 27, further comprising additional communication links that connect the plurality of computational nodes. 